CIRCULATING COPY
Report No. 687-YAR                               Im  BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Appraisal of
Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
Yemen Arab Republic
April 4, 1975
Agricultural Credit and Agro-industries                                  FILE           C  O PY
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.50
YR1 1.00 = US$0.22
YRls 1 million = US$222,222
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 meter (m)                                          =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                                        0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                                       =  2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)                                      2,205 puunds
ABBREVIATICNS
ACF     =  Agriculture Credit Fund
CB          Central Bank
CGC     =   Cotton General Company
CPO     =   Central Planning Organization
CARS    =   Central Agricultural Research Station
SURDEP  =   Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU       Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA     =   Tihama Development Authority
T,.O    =   World Health Organization
YAR     =   Yemen Arab Republic
YBRD    =   Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
TDP     =  Tihama Development Project
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............................                i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION .........................................                    I
II.  THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR   ............................1
A.   General .........................................                   1
B.   Development Constraints  .........................                   2
C.   Development Strategy ............................                   3
D.   Agricultural Credit .............................                    3
E.   Previous Agricultural Projects  ....              ..............     3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA .....................................                    4
A.    Agriculture  ......................................                4
B.    Infrastructure  ..................................                 5
C.    Development Constraints  .........................                 6
IV.    THE PROJECT         ..................................                    7
A.   Objectives  ......................................                   7
B.    Description  .....................................                 7
C.    Detailed Features ...............................                  9
D.    Implementation Schedule .........................                 12
E.    Cost Estimates  ..................................                13
F.    Financing .......................................                 14
G.   Procurement and Staff Recruitment  ....             ...........    15
H.    Disbursements  ...................................                16
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................                  16
A.    The Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit    .....              16
B.    Extension Services ..............................                 18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited tile
Yemen Arab Republic in March/April 1974, consisting of Messrs. H. von Oppenfeld,
J. Cerych, and N. Santiago (IDA), and W. Joppich and L. Nordin (Consultants).
liss H. Bongartz checked figures and tables, and Ms. J. Chernock edited the
report.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
C.  Agricultural Research and Training ....    ..........    19
D.  Operation and Maintenance .......................    19
E.   Credit   ..........................................  20
F.  Recovery of Project Cost ........................    22
G.  Accounts  and  Audit  ..............................  22
H.  Monitoring and Key Project Indicators .... .......    22
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................    22
A.  Incremental Production and Marketing ....   ........    22
B.  Producer Income and Prices .....     .................    24
C.  Employment Benefits .............................    25
D.  Environment and Health .....      .....................    25
E.  Economic Evaluation .............................    25
F.  Risks   ...........................................   26
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................    27
ANNEXES
1.  Agriculture
2.  Civil Works
3.  Cost Estimates, Financing, and Disbursement Schedule
4.  Project Implementation and Management
Appendix 1 - Terms of Reference for Expatriate Staff and Consultants
Chart WB-8778(2R) - Project Implementation Schedule
Chart WB-8742(2R) - Organization Chart
5.  Agricultural Credit
Appendix 1 - Project Income and Expenditure and Cash Flow Tables
Appendix 2 - Draft Policy Statements for Operations of Agricultural
Credit Fund to be Established in Central Bank
Chart WB-8804(R) - Organization of Agricultural Credit Fund
6.  Incremental Production and Market Prospects
7.  Economic Rate of Return and Employment Benefits
MAPS
IBRD 11052
IBRD 11053



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture is the Yemen Arab Republic's (YAR) principal economic
sector, contributing 70 to 80% to GDP and employing 80 to 90% of the working
population. Although the sector consists primarily of centuries-old subsist-
ence-based farming, it provides nearly 90% of national export earnings. De-
spite the predominance of the agricultural sector, YAR is unable to feed its
own population, and food comprises more than half of all national imports.
The economic future of YAR depends largely on the success of agricultural dev-
elopment.
ii.       Increase in agricultural production is a key factor in improving the
country's per capita income and reducing dependence on imports for essential
foodstuff. In accordance with its development strategy, the Government has
requested IDA to help finance an agricultural development project in the
Southern Uplands around the towns of Ibb and Taiz. The project was prepared
with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme.
iii.      The project, which would constitute YAR's first integrated rural
development effort, aims to improve the standard of living of some 21,000
farm families living in selected areas of the Southern Uplands within the Ibb
and Taiz Provinces. The project would increase the income and improve the
nutritional standards of these families by increasing the productivity of
about 35,000 ha of farmland. The project would also improve rural health by
reducing the incidence of waterborne diseases.
iv.       The main project components would be:
(a) short-, and medium- and long-term credit to small farmers for
fertilizer and on-farm investments, respectively;
(b) construction and upgrading of support roads; village water
supply systems; and various irrigation and land protection works;
(c) technical services, comprising expatriate experts and local
extension and counterpart staff; and the necessary staff housing,
facilities and equipment; and
(d) studies and preparation for a second-stage project possibly in
El Gened, Eryan and Wadi Bana.
v.        The project cost is estimated at US$23.2 million, of which the
proposed IDA credit would finance US$10 million. IDA together with the Abu
Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development would finance the entire foreign
exchange cost (US$13.3 million), and US$6.7 million of local costs. The
remainder would be financed by the Government of YAR (US$1.1 million), and
subborrowers' contributions and the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) (US$0.7
million), and by monthly in-kind contributions of farmers and villagers for



- ii -
feeder road constructions, new village water supply systems, and irrigation
improvements (US$1.4 million).
vi.       Procurement of goods and services required under the project would
be done by the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU). Purchases of
inputs, rural works, and construction of staff housing would not justify
international competitive bidding because of their small size and distribution
over a period of several years; contracts would be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank. The expatriate experts to serve as proj-
ect staff would be recruited internationally, and their qualifications and
terms of employment would be approved by IDA.
vii.      The project would be implemented by SURDU, organized as department
of the Ministry of Agriculture and created for this purpose. The agricultural
credit component of the project would be managed by ACF, currently a depart-
ment of the Central Bank of Yemen. The creation of ACF was planned as part
of the Tihama Development Project (IDA Credit 376-YAR). Due to lack of
qualified and experienced nationals, SURDU and ACF would have to be staffed
by expatriate specialists who, over the project's implementation period,
would train local counterparts to assume their respective duties upon project
completion.
viii.     The project would receive significant institutional support from the
UNDP/FAO project which is being implemented in Taiz and which aims to establish
a Central Agricultural Research Station (CARS). An average of 11 agricultural
research and training experts will be stationed in Taiz/Ibb for four years
starting July 1974. Through applied research CARS would generate technical
information applicable to project farms and would also provide pre-service
training for the agricultural extension agents to be employed under the
project. The terms of reference and important aspects of the UNDP/FAO proj-
ect have been coordinated between UNDP, FAO, Government and IDA, and its
timely and effective implementation is an essential factor of the success of
this project. Similarly, close cooperation with the World Health Organization
(WHO) would be important in order to ensure the optimum combined impact of
project and WHO initiatives on the incidence of waterborne diseases.
ix.       The project's overall economic return is estimated at 19%.  The cal-
culations were based on effective cost of hired farm labor; family farm labor
was shadow priced at zero cost. Cost of inputs and investment has been es-
timated at current and projected prices. Agricultural products have been es-
timated at international export prices whenever available.
x.        Having received adequate assurances on all important points during
negotiations, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10 million to
the Government of YAR on standard IDA terms.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTiERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested the
International Development Association (IDA) to help finance a rural develop-
ment project to increase agricultural productivity and income in selected
areas of the Southern Uplands within the Ibb and Taiz Provinces (Map 11052).
The Southern Uplands is the most densely populated region of the country,
where thousands of small farmers live barely above subsistence level, growing
sorghum as the principal crop on predominantly rainfed farms.
1.02      The total project cost, including the US$10 million IDA credit com-
ponent, would be US$23.2 million. The project would be inplemented by the
Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU), a semi-autonomous unit to be
set up under the Ministry of Agriculture. YAR would be the borrower.
1.03      Following a Bank economic mission in September 1972, the project
was identified and prepared with the assistance of two FAO/IBR) Cooperative
Programme missions in May and September 1973, and was appraised in March/April
1974 by Messrs. H. von Oppenfeld, J. Cerych, and N. Santiago (IDA), and W.
Joppich and L. Nordin (Consultants), all of whom contributed to the prepara-
tion of this report.
II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. General
2.01      Agriculture contributes about 70% to GDP, nearly 90% to exports,
and employs over 80% of the labor force in the country. A substantial number
of Yemenis work in neighboring countries. Cotton, coffee, qat 1/ and hides
and skins are the major agricultural exports. In 1973, cotton and cotton-
seed accounted for 56% and coffee for 17% of the total export value. Food
imports, nearly half of which were cereals, accounted for about 50%"' of the
total import value.
2.02      The nature and structure of the agriculture sector have remained
basically unchanged for centuries. YAR has a total cropped area of 1.5 mil-
lion ha, of which 225,000 ha (15%) are at least partially irrigated from wells,
1/   A mild narcotic leaf that is chewed.



- 2 -
perennial springs or periodic wadi floods. Over 90% of the cropped area is
devoted to sorghum, maize and millet, yielding on the average 800 kg/ha.
2.03      On the basis of rainfall, altitude and crop-livestock pattern, five
main agricultural zones can be distinguished in the country:
(a)  the Coastal Belt of the Tihama, from sea level to 700 m altitude,
with an annual rainfall of 150 mm and below, where rainfed millet
is the staple crop and irrigated cotton the main cash crop; cattle
raising is also important;
(b)  the Western Slopes, from 700 to 1,000 m altitude, with 400 to 600
mm annual precipitation, where sorghum is the staple crop and
coffee the main cash crop;
(c)  the Central and Southern Uplands including most of the Taiz and
Ibb Provinces at altitudes between 800 and 2,500 m (exceptionally
3,000 m) and with rainfall varying between 400 and 1,000 mm.
Sorghum is the staple crop, coffee and qat the main cash crops;
(d)  the Intermontane Plains, above 2,000 m altitude, with 300 to 500
mm annual rainfall, where sorghum, barley and wheat are grown
besides considerable sheep and goat husbandry; and
(e)  the Eastern Slopes, 1,500 to 2,500 m altitude, with marginal
rainfall, where millet is the main crop, and camels are raised.
In all five zones, a variety of fruits and vegetables as well as maize are
grown. Available data on land use, agricultural production, prices, and pro-
duction value are given in Annex 1, Table 1.
B. Development Constraints
2.04      Despite the introduction on a limuted scale in recent years of
modern agricultural inputs, such as groundwater pumps, farm machinery and
fertilizers, agriculture in YAR remains underdeveloped and its productivity is
among the lowest in the world. The major constraints to agricultural develop-
ment include: (a) poor natural resource endowments including low and erratic
rainfall which causes severe shortage of agricultural water supply, and small
per capita cultivable land area with little prospect for its expansion; (b)
shortage of skilled manpower and effective institutions; (c) the primitive
level of agricultural technology and infrastructure such as agricultural
feeder roads and rural electrification, and complementary agro-industrial
facilities; and (d) complex socio-economic and political institutions such as
the power structure inherent in the centuries-old tribal society and resulting
land tenure arrangements.



C. Development Strategy
2.05      T'he Government's present development strategy centers on the devel-
opment of (a) increased food production for substitution of present imports
of cereals and meat, and (b) increased production of the main export commo-
dities - cotton and coffee. To achieve priority '(a)', the Northern and
Southern Uplands are being developed under a German-aided extension project
and a UNDP/FAO project, respectively; a veterinary service is being built up
with British aid; Kuwait is financing a sectoral study to identify livestock
investment projects; IDA is financing feasibility studies for 60,000 ha in
Wadi Mawr; Abu Dhabi is financing planning and reconstruction of the ancient
Marib Dam; and a feasibility study for developing the Ga el Hakl region is
being carried out under British technical aid. Priority '(b)' is being pur-
sued by an IDA-financed irrigation improvement project on 17,000 ha in Wadi
Zabid; feasibility studies for Wadis Seham and Surdud; a British-financed
study of Wadi Reem; and formulation by an FAO coffee expert of a coffee in-
vestment project for increased production, improved processing and marketing.
D. Agricultural Credit
2.06      Except for cotton growing, farmers have no access to institutional
credit. Cotton production is financed through the Yemen Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development's (YBRD) credit to the Cotton General Company (CGC), the
Government-owned cotton marketing board which, in its turn, extends short-term
interest-free credit, predominantly in kind to cotton growers. Other farmers
requiring credit to cover urgent family and agriculture needs borrow from
relatives or neighbors, or in some cases purchase on credit from merchants.
Neither farmers nor lenders admit paying or charging interest on such loans.
2.07      Sample surveys in the Southern Uplands indicate that the majority
of farmers would be willing to use institutional credit for agriculture, pro-
vided such facilities were readily available, and guidance on the use of
inputs was supplied.
2.08      In order to create an agricultural credit institution, an Agricul-
tural Credit Fund (ACF) has been established under the Tihama Development
Project. ACF functions at present as a department of the'Central Bank but
would probably eventually be transformed into an independent institution.
E. Previous Agricultural Projects
2.09      The proposed project would represent the sixth IDA credit for YAR
and the second IDA credit for agriculture. In 1971 and 1973 the Bank jointly
with the Kuwait Fund extended a grant to YAR to finance a team of advisors
to assist Government in establishing the Central Planning Organization (CPO)



-4-
and to help it prepare an economic development strategy and identify invest-
ment projects. The Tihama Development Project, financed jointly by IDA's
first agricultural credit of US$10.9 million and by a US$5.9 million loan
from the Kuwait Fund, became effective in September 1973. The Tihama Develop-
ment Authority (TDA), created in 1973 to implement the project, has overcome
initial difficulties and has appointed experts for research, extension and
credit. The Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF), through which agricultural credit
under the Tihama Project would be channeled, has been set up. Provision of
an agricultural training center to be established at Ibb is included in the
Education Project which became effective in April 1974.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Agriculture
General
3.01      The project area is located in Taiz and Ibb Provinces within the
Southern Uplands along the main road Sana'a-Taiz-Turba (Maps 11052 and 11053).
It comprises an estimated 50,000 ha of cultivated land with 29,000 farms and
170,000 inhabitants, the majority of whom live in some 500 villages. The
Sayani Pass separates the northern high rainfall region of Ibb, with 800-1,000
mm rainfall p.a., from the low rainfall area of Taiz, with 400-600 mm p.a.
Rainfall in both areas occurs mainly from April to September and Taiz region
has a drought on the average in one out of three years.
Soils
3.02      The soil in the project area is well suited for rainfed and irrigated
agriculture. However, it has been depleted by continuous cropping for some
2,000 years, without replenishment of nutrients.
Water Use and Rights        -
3.03      An estimated 2,000 ha, or 4% of the cultivated land in the project
area, are irrigated from periodic wadi floods (spate irrigation), or permanent
springs and wells. Spate irrigation is of little value due to its uncertainty
in drought years. With irrigation from springs, considerable water is lost by
seepage in long canals and by widely practiced over-irrigation. Water from
springs and periodic wadi floods is communal property, but land nearest to the
source has priority. Water from wells belongs to the owner of the land on
which the well is constructed. Besides irrigating his land, the owner fre-
quently sells the surplus water to neighbors against a 30% crop share.



-5-
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.04      About 15% of the cultivated land in the project area is Waqf (Moslem
religious property) and State land. The rest is in private hands. Sizes of
holdings in Taiz and Ibb average about 3 and 1.5 ha, respectively. In the Taiz
area, about 75% of the farms are owner-cultivated; in the Ibb area, the ratio
between owner- and tenant-operated farms is reversed, with tenants cultivating
nearly 70% of the farms. As in other countries where land fragmentation is a
problem, it is not uncommon for a farmer to be both landowner and tenant.
Eviction of tenants is reported to be rare. In the Taiz region, small farms
under 1 ha cover over 10% of the cultivated area and represent about 60% of
the number of farms; in the Ibb region, the percentages are 17% and 50%,
respectively. Government levies a 10% production tax (Zakat). The most
frequent crop-sharing pattern is 10% for the Zakat, 60-65% to the tenant, and
25-30% to the landlord, increasing up. to 68% in the case of investment in
irrigation and tree crops. Usually, the tenant bears all costs of agricul-
tural inputs (4.07). 1/
Crop Production and Prices
3.05      Two-thirds of the project area's estimated production value of YRls
60 million is derived from sorghum and millet. In normal years, food grain
production from the Ibb region has exceeded local needs, whereas Taiz depends
on additional supplies from neighboring areas. Both regions require additional
meat supply from the Tihama. Producer prices for grain fluctuate considerably
with the seasons, since small farmers must sell a large part of their market-
able surplus at unfavorable prices immediately after harvest to meet debt re-
payments. Grain is stored by farmers in earth caves (madfans) and old gasoline'
drums.
Livestock
3.06      Small farmers keep at most a bullock for ploughing, a donkey for
transport of produce, a cow or some goats and sheep, supplemented by a few
chickens. Feed shortages during dry seasons prevent livestock production from
meeting local consumption needs and only irrigated alfalfa can assure a regu-
lar fodder supply. Rinderpest and Newcastle disease are frequent plagues
affecting and in some years wiping out the cattle and poultry population,
respectively, of entire districts.
B. Infrastructure
Roads
3.07      Apart from the main roads linking Taiz with Sana'a, Hodeidah and
Aden, the road network is very poor. Many villages have no connection to the
1/   Source of data:  Survey conducted by project preparation team.



- 6 -
main roads and the existing roads and tracks are rough and hazardous. Only
basic earthwork has been carried out and the lack of adequate drainage is a
common source of road deterioration. Roads are sometimes completely washed
out over a short distance due to the lack of culverts, making them inaccess-
ible for days at a time. Once the roads have been constructed, they receive
little maintenance, due to the Highway Authority's lack of funds for this
purpose.
Village Water Supplies
3.08      Safe drinking water is a scarce commodity in YAR and only the major
cities and a few villages have piped water. People get their water from open
wells, springs, or even open cisterns which are filled during the rainy
season. Water quality is poor and incidence of waterborne diseases is high.
3.09      It is common practice that the rural population contributes to the
construction of roads, village water supply systems and irrigation improve-
ments by supplying free labour, locally available materials and/or by sharing
otherwise in the cost of the construction, and eventually in the cost of main-
tenance.
Communications
3.10      An international airport, located 15 km north of Taiz, links the
project area to Sana'a, Hodeidah and neighboring countries. Long distance
telecommunication within the country is poor. A new radio link station has
recently been constructed in Taiz with assistance from UNDP and the U.N.
International Telecommunications Union, thus linking Aden-Taiz-Sana'a. UNDP
also operates a radio communications network connecting Taiz-Sana'a-Hodeidah.
C. Development Constraints
3.11      There are several constraints to agricultural development.  One of
them is lack of water, since about 40% of the project area has low rainfall
and a drought every third year on the average. Also, a considerable amount
of irrigation water from springs is lost by seepage in long canals and by
widely practiced over-irrigation. Only a few farms are irrigated by wells,
and no extensive hydrogeological surveys have been carried out.
3.12      The soils are impoverished from continuous cultivation without
nutrient replacement, and it is estimated that up to 20% of agricultural
produce is lost to plant pests, mainly from seed-borne diseases. The prevail-
ing land tenure situation, where the tenant must bear the entire cost of in-
puts, also hinders the widespread use of fertilizer and other agricultural
inputs.
3.13      Agricultural development is also severely hampered by the lack of
infrastructure and supporting services. The absence of feeder roads in several
areas makes it difficult to market production surpluses and reach the farmers



-7-
for extension work. Until the UNDP/FAO Research Project was established in
Taiz, virtually no agricultural research had been carried out in respect of
identifying high-yielding varieties and plant pests or determining proper
plant fertilization.
3.14      Poor rural health conditions due to malnutrition and the widespread
incidence of bilharzia, tuberculosis, malaria and waterborne diseases have a
deleterious effect on labor productivity which becomes especially significant
during the planting and harvesting seasons.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The project, which would constitute YAR's first integrated rural
development effort, aims to improve the standard of living of some 21,000
farm families living in selected areas of the Southern Uplands within the Ibb
and Taiz Provinces. The project would increase the income and improve the
nutritional standards of these families by increasing the productivity of
about 35,000 ha of farmland. The project would also improve rural health by
reducing the incidence of waterborne diseases.
B. Description
4.02      The major elements are:
(a)  Agricultural Inputs and Investments:
(i) Short-term credit to small farmers for purchase of
fertilizer and other inputs;
(ii) Medium- and long-term credit for production wells, nurs-
eries, orchards, and packaging and handlirtg facilities;
(iii) Promotion of plant protection techniques through the
project extension service;
(iv) Multiplication and distribution of high-yielding seeds
developed by the Central Agricultural Research Station
(CARS);



-8-
(b) Rural Works:
(M)  Construction and upgrading of 180 km of support roads;
(ii) Installation of 90 village water supply systems;
(iii) Irrigation and land protection works: Expansion and/or
improvement of existing small gravity irrigation schemes;
afforestation (350 ha); gabion protection of wadi banks
(20 km); and drop structures of gabions across the wadis
(25 km);
(c) Project Facilities and Equipment, Including Staff Housing;
(d) Technical Services:
(i) Expatriate experts;
(ii) Local extension and counterpart staff;
(e) Miscellaneous Costs:
(i)  Overseas fellowships for local staff;
(ii) Studies and preparation for a second stage project; and
(iii) Funding for molluscicides, facilities and equipment,
required to support a World Health Organization (WHO)
rural health study in the project area.
4.03      In addition to the technical services component, the project would
receive significant institutional support from multilateral (UNDP/FAO) and
bilateral technical assistance projects. Most important among these would be
the establishment of the Central Agricultural Research Station (CARS) in
Taiz (UNDP/FAO Project 73010). Although the technology which will be used
to expand ptoduction by agricultural inputs exists, the results of CARS re-
search would be applied in the earlier stages of the project and therefore
the timely and effective implementation of CARS is an important factor of the
success of this project. Objectives and essential details of the UNDP/FAO
proposal have been coordinated between UNDP, FAO, Government and IDA.
4.04      The project would be implemented by the Southern Uplands Rural
Development Unit (SURDU), to be established under the Ministry of Agriculture.
Rural works would be constructed with the participation of the rural popula-
tion and the communities concerned. This would be in keeping with YAR's long-
standing tradition of self-help in the rural areas, with communities often
contributing to roac construction and maintenance (see para 4.14 and Annex 2,
paras 10, 30, 39 and 47). All project works would be completed in six years.



-9-
C. Detailed Features
Agricultural Inputs and Investments
4.05      General.  On-farm development would be in accordance with ecological
conditions prevailing in the project area, as illustrated by three basic farm
models. Some salient features of each model are shown below. Details on
farm development models are in Annex 1.
Average
Number of       Cost of
Total        Farmers per    Agricultural
Farm       Principal    Average         Farm Area      Extension       Inputs per
Model      Features      Farm Size      Included          Agent           Farm
(ha)         ('000 ha)                         (YRls)
Rainfed
1     Low 400-600 mm    2.6              12.0            240              800
2     High above 600 mm 1.5              20.3            180            1,350
Irrigated
3a    Existing gravity
schemes          1.0              1.4            120           2,600
3b    Expansion of
gravity schemes 1.0               0.6            120           2,600
3c    New pump schemes  1.0               0.4            120            2,600
4.06      Short-term credit for fertilizer and other inputs.  Appplication of
fertilizer would be the key to productivity improvements in the initial years
of the project. Local trials have shown that crop yields increase over 50%
with the addition of fertilizer alone, and farmers have readily made use of
it in recent limited distribution schemes. The project would provide, through
ACF, short-term credit to small farmers for purchase of fertilizer, and other
inputs as needed, and SURDU would control fertilizer distribution and provide
technical information on its application through trained and supervised ex-
tension staff.
4.07      Presently the landlords do not share in the cost of inputs, which
tends to discourage the tenants from making full use of fertilizers although
it could easily be done by deducting the cost of the inputs before splitting
the crop between the tenant and the landlord, in the same manner as is pre-
sently being done for the production tax "zakat". In order to provide more
ir.centive to the tenants and simultaneously to promote more equitable benefit
sharing, the Government would take all action necessary to ensure that land-
lords share in the cost of inputs. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.



- 10 -
4.08      Medium- and long-term credit.  The project would provide medium-
and long-term credit for the following components:
(a) Production wells - Groundwater development through dug or
drilled wells, estimated to irrigate an additional 400 ha,
would be planned and implemented under the project in con-
junction with groundwater surveys.
(b) Nurseries, orchards, and packaging and handling facilities -
Credit for orchards would be mainly for coffee and tree fruit,
and credit for packaging and handling facilities would be
mainly for potatoes and onions.
4.09      Plant protection.  Plant pests reduce crop yields by as much as 20%.
Seed-borne diseases, the most prevalent, would be reduced by application of
seed dressings, under supervision of extension agents. The cost is relatively
small, and techniques are simple. Other problems are caused by insect infes-
tation of sorghum and maize by aphids and stem borers, and damage from other
pests to potatoes, fruit and vegetables. Although techniques for diagnosing
and combating these pests are standard, they would have to be adapted and
refined for local conditions in close cooperation between research and ex-
tension experts. The time required for introducing plant protection measures
would not exceed one or two years.
4.10      Improved seeds.  Despite the remarkable response possible from
fertilizer applied to local crop varieties, additional benefits can be derived
from carefully selected and/or developed high-yielding seeds. This would be
the task of two qualified experts and their support staff under the UNDP/FAO
project. They would concentrate on developing high-yielding plant materials
for sorghum/millet and maize, the main crops of the project area. The early
stages of testing and multiplying foundation seeds would be the task of
CARS, while SURDU would assume responsibility for multiplying seeds in quan-
tittes sufficient for project farmers. Although high-yielding wheat, potato
and onion seeds are already available, the UNDP/FAO experts will probably re-
quire two to three years from 1974 until improved varieties can be thoroughly
tested and multiplied so as to be released to farmers. Introduction of
such seeds, for sorghum/millet, would also have to be deferred until that
time.
Rural Works
4.11      Support roads.  Support road construction would provide access for
inputs and extension activities and outlets for marketable surplus from in-
accessible, productive portions of the project area. Of some 180.km, about
140 km would either be upgraded or newly constructed to single track standard,
3.5 m wide, while the balance would be double track standard 6 m wide. About
24% of the roads would be on flat land, 59% on rolling and the remaining 17%
on mountainous terrain. Average cost would range from YRls 40,000 (US$8,900)
per km on flat land to YRls 136,000 (US$30,000) per km in mountainous terrain.
The roads to be constructed consist of 28 short sections ranging from 1 to 20



- 11 -
km. Individual roads would be executed under one of three procedures, depend-
ing on the circumstances: (a) by local contractors, subject to local compe-
titive bidding; (b) by the Highway Authority, subject to negotiated contract
on a unit cost basis; or (c) by local government authority or development
board, utilizing labor-intensive methods. Further details are in Annex 2.
4.12      Village water supply systems.  Some 90 village water supply systems
would be installed. They would be of two types: gravity piping from springs,
and drilled wells equipped with pumpsets. Costs would average about YRls
90,000 (US$20,000) for one complete system including cistern, taps, laundry
and animal watering troughs and drainage. Wells would be planned and sited,
subject to a hydrogeologist consultant's groundwater study and in close co-
operation with WHO, to ensure the optimum combined impact of project and WHO
initiatives on the incidence of waterborne diseases. The water systems would
be constructed by the Department of Public Water Supply, Taiz, which has had
substantial technical and financial support from USAID.
4.13      Gravity irrigation schemes.  Important productivity increases would
result from expansion and/or improvement of existing gravity schemes. The
project would provide for improvement of small diversion structures and spring
collection points, restructuring and lining of irrigation canals and turn-out
controls. Irrigation practices would be improved through better water manage-
ment techniques. Through these measures approximately 600 ha would be added
to areas commanded by gravity schemes.
4.14      The rural population would participate in construction of the sup-
port roads, village water supply systems and gravity irrigation schemes by
contributing free labor and/or locally available materials or by sharing
otherwise in the construction cost. This contribution would cover in average
about 30% of the local cost component. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
4.15      Land protection works.  The project would undertake three types of
land protection work on a pilot basis: afforestation (350 ha), gabion pro-
tection of wadi banks (20 km), and drop structures of gabions across the
wadis (25 km). Because of the high unit costs involved, particularly for
gabion protection and drop structures, these would only be constructed where
roads, houses or valuable land are threatened by erosion.
4.16      Location and construction standards of roads, village water supply
systems, irrigation improvements and land protection schemes to be constructed
under the project would be determined by SURDU and would have to be approved
by IDA prior to starting the construction works. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
Facilities and Equipment
4.17      The project would provide offices and buffer storage facilities
for SURDU in both Ibb and Taiz. The project would provide 60 houses for
the extension staff - 10 of them for extension supervisors, which would also



- 12 -
serve as project field offices. Eight units for expatriate housing would
also be constructed in Ibb. Radio communications equipment would be provided
to facilitate communication between Ibb, Taiz and the field offices. Field
staff equipment, including that for seed cleaning and fertilizer demonstra-
tion, as well as equipment for surveying and for a veterinary team, would be
supplied. The project would provide vehicles, including lorries, staff
vehicles, mini-buses, motorcycles, and two mobile audiovisual units to
broaden the extension media. Details on requirements and costs for facil-
ities and equipment are in Annex 3.
Technical Services
4.18      Expatriate experts.  YAR's limited supply of trained and experienced
technicians and managers is one of the major constraints to project implementa-
tion. The project would therefore provide the services of nine senior experts
(including a project manager, an administrative/finance officer, and a credit
officer) and ten associates for periods ranging from four to six years.
Additional experts would be provided as part-time consultants. Further de-
tails are in para 5.04 and Annex 4.
4.19      Local extension and counterpart staff.  The project would provide
an extension force consisting of 19 field supervisors and 176 extension agents.
Local counterpart staff with training and experience commensurate with the
functions of senior and associate experts may not be available, at least not
in sufficient numbers. Appropriate selection of trainable counterparts,
coupled with their sustained employment and systematic training under the
project, would therefore be a paramount objective. Details on local staff
requirements are in Annexes 3 and 4.
Miscellaneous Costs
4.20      Overseas fellowships.  Twenty fellowships for overseas study would
be provided for the project staff.
4.21      Studies and preparation for a second stage project.  In order to
extend the project concept beyond the present area, studies involving collec-
tion of basic agricultural data, hydrogeological investigations and irrigation
design have been included. These would form the basis of project feasibility
studies for Wadi Bana, El Gened, Eryan and other suitable areas adjacent to
the proposed project.
4.22      Rural health.  The project also includes funding for molluscicides,
equipment and other investments required to carry out the recommendations of
a WHO rural health study in the project area.
D. Implementation Schedule
4.23      Project implementation (see Annex 4, Chart 1) would begin in the
second half of 1975. CARS has agreed to initiate the pre-service training of



- 13 -
the first extension agents by January 1975. The extension and fertilizer
distribution program would begin in irrigated portions of the project area
by September/October 1975. Project implementation would require about six
years. Further details on the agricultural and civil works program are in
Annexes 1 and 2.
E. Cost Estimates
4.24      The estimated total project cost (base period:  March 1974), in-
cluding physical and price contingencies, would be US$23.2 million (YRls 104.4
million). This amount includes: (a) funding of short-term input credit; (b)
funding of medium- and long-term credit for on-farm investment in wells,
orchards, packing and handling facilities; (c) the full costs of 180 km sup-
port roads and 90 village water supply systems and other specified rural
works; (d) all project facilities and services, over six years; and (e) fur-
ther studies. Cost estimates, detailed in Annex 3, are summarized below:



- 14 -
Project Cost
Foreign
Exchange
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Component
(----YRls '000)-----  (-----US$ '000-----)       (X)
Short-term Credit for
Fertilizer                    320  6,300   6,620    70   1,400   1,470       95
Medium- and long-term Credit
for On-farm Investments    1,530  3,600   5,130   340        800   1,140     70
Rural Works                 12,950 11,520  24,470 2,880   2,560   5,440        47
Project Unit Facilities
and Equipment               4,380  6,610  10,990   970   1,470   2,440       60
Technical Services           9,890 12,380  22,270 2,200   2,750   4,950        56
Miscellaneous Costs            180  1,400   1,580    40       310     350      89
Base Costs                  29,250 41,810  71,060 6,500   9,290  15,790        59
Contingencies:
(a)  Physical (7.7%)        2,570  2,920   5,490   570       650   1,220     53
(b)  Price (47%)           12,560 15,300  27,860 2,790   3,400   6,190       55
TOTAL COSTS                 44,380 60,030 104,410 9,860  13,340  23,200        58
4.25      Physical contingencies were calculated by providing 20% for vil-
lage water supply systems, feeder roads, irrigation improvements medium- and
long-term credit provision for wells and 5% for staff housing and office
buildings. Price contingencies were calculated to reflect the expected in-
crease in prices for both local and imported equipment and materials as well
as for technical services and salaries (as detailed in Annex 3).
F. Financing
4.26      YAR, one of the five least developed countries in the world, cannot
afford to finance more than 10% of project cost. In previous IDA-projects,
there has been no contribution from the Government's own resources. With
increasing remittances from Yemenis living abroad and substantial foreign aid
inflow, IDA is now trying to establish a pattern of increased Government part-
icipation in project cost. In view of the Government's.still limited re-
sources, however, nearly 90% of the project cost would have to be financed
from external sources. The IDA allocation of US$10 million for the project
would be matched by a US$10 million credit from the Abu Dhabi Fund. The
IDA and Abu Dhabi Fund financing would cover the entire foreign exchange cost
(US$13.3 million) and US$6.7 million of local cost of the US$23.2 million
project. The financing plan is detailed below (details in Annex 3):



- 15 -
Source of Funds                                US$'000 
IDA                                            10,000               43.1
Abu Dhabi Fund                                 10,000               43.1
Government of YAR                               1,070                4.6
Subborrowers' Contribution                        370                1.6
ACF reinvestment of IDA/Abu Dhabi Fund
loans proceeds                                   370                1.6
In-kind contribution by rural population
and rural communities                          1,390                6.0
Total                    23,200              100.0
4.27      During the six-year project implementation, the Government financial
contribution would be approximately US$140,000 per year, in 1974 prices.
After Year 6, this would rise to about US$650,000 by Year 7 and go down to
about US$450,000 by Year 9. With the increasing prosperity of neighboring
Arab countries, remittances by Yemeni nationals working abroad and bilateral
aid to the country should increase. On this basis the Government should be
capable of meeting current project costs after Year 6.
G. Procurement and Staff Recruitment
4.28      Purchases of goods and materials would be made in small lots over
the six-year period of the project. They would therefore be unsuitable for
bulking and contracts would be too small to be suitable for competitive bid-
ding advertized internationally. Purchases of inputs, mainly fertilizer,
would increase progressively over the project period but the quantities re-
quired by year 9 when the project is fully developed are estimated to amount
only to about 4,000 tons of urea, 2,800 tons of DAP and 600 tons of muriate
of potash. Similarly contracts for village water supply, rural roads, small
irrigation works and afforestation, estimated to cost a total of about US$5.5
m, construction of staff houses, widely dispersed over the area of the project,
estimated to cost about US$800,000, and for administrative facilities and
equipment, estimated to cost about US$900,000, would be small in size and
spread over a period of years.  Foreign suppliers of goods and materials are
well represented in the YAR, necessary service facilities are available, there
are no import quotas or other import restrictions, competition is keen and
prices are competitive. Contracts will therefore be placed on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertized locally and in accordance with local pro-
cedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Qualified domestic civil works
contractors would be accorded a 7-1/2% preference when comparing bids from
foreign contractors. Purchases under the project will be exempt from import
duties. The expatriate experts to serve as project staff would be recruited
internationally, and during negotiations, assurances have been obtained that
their qualifications and terms of employment would be approved by IDA.



- 16 -
H. Disbursements
4.29      The proposed IDA credit of US$10 million would be disbursed over
six years, as follows:
(a) Short-term Agricultural Credit (US$750,000): Disbursement would
cover 50% of the incremental CIF cost of fertilizer purchased by
SURDU yearly.
(b) Medium- and long-term Agricultural Credit (US$550,000): Disburse-
ment would cover 37.5% of medium-term loans extended by ACF to
project farmers.
(c) Rural Works (US$2.30 millioh): Disbursement would cover
42.5% of total costs.
(d) Project Facilities and Equipment (US$1.30 million):
Disbursement would cover 50% of total costs.
(e) Technical Services, Fellowships and Other Studies (US$2.40
million):. Disbursements would cover 50% of the total cost,
with the exception of local staff salaries where disbursements
would cover 30% of the total cost.
(f) Unallocated (US$2.70 million): Represents physical and price
contingencies on all disbursement categories except on short-
and medium- and long-term credit under (a) and (b) where con-
tingencies are directly included.
4.-30     IDA would reimburse the Borrower for these costs upon receipt of
full documentation except for expenditures related to local costs, which would
be disbursed against a statement of expenditures duly certified by auditors
acceptable to IDA and to the Abu Dhabi Fund. The supporting documents would
be retained by the executing agency and available for review by project super-
vision missions. A detailed disbursement schedule is in Annex 3, Table 10.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. The Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
5.01      There is no Government institution in the Southern Uplands with the
capability to implement the project. Therefore in the four months following
the signature of the credit, a Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU)
would be established under the Ministry of Agriculture for this specific pur-
pose. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit that SURDU had



- 17 -
been established within the Ministry of Agriculture and that SURDU's Manager,
acceptable to IDA and the Abu Dhabi Fund, had been appointed. SURDU's
responsibilities would be:
(a) organization and management of an agricultural extension serv-
ice covering the project area, composed of about 200 extension
agents and field supervisors;
(b) distribution of agricultural inputs and organization of a sup-
porting credit scheme in coordination with ACF;
(c) survey, design and supervision of construction of support
roads, village water supply systems, irrigation canal lining,
land protection schemes, office buildings and staff housing,
as well as provision of technical support to ACF for loans
relating to production wells, orchards and the like;
(d) initiation and supervision of supplementary studies that
would extend the project concept beyond the present area, and
coordination with other bilateral and multilateral aid agencies
whenever necessary.
After the six-year project implementation period, SURDU's coverage would be
broadened to include agricultural development of the whole Southern Uplands
region.
5.02      SURDU's legal powers would be those of the Regional Department of
the Ministry of Agriculture, including the rights:
(a) to acquire land for its works and to enter into any lands held
by others for purposes of surveys, data collection or any
other objective;
(b) to enter into contractual arrangements with firms or agencies
for executing works;
(c) to organize and operate on its own behalf or on behalf of the
Government or any other Governmental institutions or agencies
dealing with agricultural research, extension and credit;
(d) To enter into contractual arrangements, in conjunction with
the appropriate authorities of the Borrower, for the employment
of experts and consultants.
5.03      SURDU would have a coordinating committee which wot'ld be chaired
by the Minister of Agriculture and would include senior officials repre-
senting the Central Planning Organization and the Ministry of Finance, the
Project Manager of SURDU and the Director of CARS. The committee would serve
as a coordinating body between SURDU and the various ministries represented.



- 18 -
5.04      Due to a shortage of qualified nationals, STRDU would be staffed,
up to Year 6, with nine senior expatriate experts (the project manager, an
administrative and finance officer, a credit officer, two senior extension
agronomists, a plant protection extension agronomist, a veterinarian, a
livestock expert, and a senior civil engineer) and ten associate level
expatriate experts, all of whom would have local counterparts (see Organiza-
tion Chart, Annex 4). These experts would be responsible both for project
implementation and for the training of their counterparts, who would take
over upon completion of the project. Utmost attention must be devoted to the
recruitment of the nine senior-level expatriate experts, particularly the
project manager, since their timely appointment would be an important factor
in the success of this project. Both the Government and the local population
have a positive attitude towards the hiring of suitably qualified experts
and accepting their advice. Additional experts to be provided as part-time
consultants would advise on and monitor: farmer organization and land tenure,
marketing and agro-industries, groundwater development, seed potato production,
and project evaluation over the six-year period. Further details on expa-
triate staff requirements are in Annex 3, Table 5; and Annex 4.
5.05      A considerable number of returning Yemenis who have been educated
abroad, mostly in Eastern Europe, would be suitable for project counterpart
positions. After a six-year training period that would include on-the-job
training and further studies abroad under project fellowships, most of them
should be qualified to take over project management. Care must be taken in
the choice of trainable counterparts, since this is one of the most critical
aspects of project implementation. A total of 270 nationals would be hired,
about 20 of them at supervisory level (excluding field extension supervisors).
To prepare for SURDU's expanded role after Year 6, the Director general of
the Ministry of Agriculture for the Southern Uplands would be designated Co-
director of SURDU. Further details on local staff requirements and training
are in Annex 3, Tables 6 and 7; and Annex 4.
B. Extension Services
5.06      A key project function is agricultural extension.  An extension
force of 19 field supervisors and 176 extension agents would cover 21,000
farmers cultivating some 35,000 ha. They would be divided into two groups,
each under a senior extension agronomist, one to cover the low-rainfed area
south of the Sayani Pass and the other to cover the high-rainfed area north
of this climatic boundary. The extension function would consist of on-farm
demonstration and year-round advice to 240, 180 and 120 farmers per extension
agent for low-rainfed, high-rainfed and irrigated areas, respectively.  Farm-
ers would receive technical advice from the senior experts of SURDU and CARS.
In addition to the extension function, the agents would assist in agricultural
credit, input distribution and possibly even improvement of rural health.
Extension agents recruited would ideally have at least secondary school train-
ing. They would be permanently employed only after a year of successful field
work. Details are given in Annex 1, Page 6 and Table 4; and Annex 4.



- 19 -
C. Agricultural Research and Training
5.07      Agricultural research would be performed by CARS in Taiz.  FAO will
post an average of 11 agricultural research and training experts to operate
CARS for four years from its initiation in July 1974. Through pragmatic
applied research, CARS would thus generate new technical information applicable
to project farms. CARS would also be responsible for pre-service training of
extension agents in courses lasting from six to nine months and conducted by
its own experts. The estimated timetable calls for training by CARS of 30
extension agents in 1975 and 60 agents each in the following 3 years. SURDU
would be responsible for in-service training consisting of short courses and
seminars. Fellowships abroad both for specialized courses and degree-oriented
training would be awarded on the basis of exceptional performance and develop-
ment potential. Specialized course fellowships would normally be granted for
study in neighboring countries. However, language instruction, especially in
English, would also be available so as to give qualified candidates a wider
choice of training institutions outside YAR.
D. Operation and Maintenance
Support Roads
5.08      Maintenance of support roads constructed under the project would be
carried out by the Highway Authority on the basis of a negotiated contract,
and would be controlled and supervised by SURDTU. The maintenance would be
financed by the project during the six-year implementation period and there-
after by the Government. An annual allocation of YRls 1,800/km would be pro-
vided for this purpose, starting with the year following construction.
Village Water Supply Systems
5.09      Operation and maintenance costs would be borne by the beneficiaries.
Assurances to this effect have been obtained during negotiations. Details of
the administration of the water systems and arrangements for the provision of
operation and maintenance costs would be worked out by SURDU. Further details
are in Annex 2.
Gravity Irrigation Schemes
5.10      Maintenance of these minor schemes would be carried out by the
farmers benefitting from the schemes. There is a practice of communal sharing
of maintenance costs for such irrigation schemes in YAR; however, an under-
taking to carry out the annual maintenance would be required before a parti-
cular scheme is started.



- 20 -
Land Protection Works
5.11      No allocation for maintenance is provided under the project, since
the beneficiaries of the schemes would provide it.
Buildings
5.12      The project would provide an annual allocation for maintenance start-
ing after the fourth year. The allocation is 3% of total construction cost.
An annual provision would also be made for running the offices (Annex 3).
E. Credit
5.13      ACF, which has been established in connection with the Tihama Devel-
opment Project, would be the credit channel under the project. ACF would
open two new offices, one in Taiz and one in Ibb. The regional field manager
would be responsible for organizing both offices and for implementing the
credit operations under the project. He would be nominally under the author-
ity of ACF's general manager residing in Sana'a, and would closely collaborate
with SURDU's manager and administrative and finance officer.
5.14      The agricultural credit component of the project (US$2.6 million)
would provide short-term loans (US$1.5 million) for financing of current
inputs, mostly but not exclusively, fertilizers; and medium- and long-term
loans (US$1.1 million) for investment in on-farm water development schemes
and, on a limited scale, for plantation of nurseries, orchards, coffee,
packaging and handling facilities. Farmers' repayments of short-term loans
would permit ACF to progressively build up a revolving fund which would in
due course allow ACF to operate without further additional funding.
Source of Funds
5.15      ACF would receive the necessary funds from:
(a) Government's long-term loan of US$1.5 million equiva-
lent which would be provided by the IDA/Abu Dhabi Fund
financing of short-term credit; and
(b)  a Government long-term loan of US$1.10 million equivalent which
would be provided by IDA/Abu Dhabi Fund financing of medium- and
long-term credit for on-farm investments.
The term of the Government loan would be 15 years including 5 years' grace.
In order to allow ACF to build a reserve to cover exceptional losses due to
periodic droughts in the southern part of the project area, Government would
waive payment of 3% of the 4% interest currently charged on similar loans.
Should Government, in consultation with IDA and Abu Dhabi Fund decide with-
in three years of commencement of ACF's operations that ACF will become an



- 21 -
independent credit agency, the Government loan for financing of short-term
credit would be transformed into a Government contribution to the equity of
the new agency. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that the
above financial arrangements would be adhered to.
Lending Policies and Procedures
5.16      The lending policies and procedures of ACF would be in accordance
with a Policy Statement originally drafted in connection with the Tihama
Development Project. This statement would be amended in order to cover ade-
quately the enlarged operations of ACF (Annex 5, Appendix 2). Sub-loans would
be extended to farmers and persons or entities engaged in agriculture-related
activities within the project area or whose business was dependent on agricul-
tural production from the project area; The sub-borrowers would contribute:
(a) in the case of medium- and long term loans at least 20% of the investment
cost; (b) in the case of short-term input loans no less than 10% of the agreed
retail price of the relevant input. Interest rates to be charged by ACF would
be reasonably in line with prevailing rates charged by commercial banks but
would not be inferior to 9% per annum for short-term loans and 8% per annum
for medium- and long-term loans. ACF would be expected to be self-sufficient
on the basis of margins earned on its lending and input prefinancing opera-
tions (Annex 5, Table 2). Loans in excess of US$50,000 equivalent, especially
envisaged for processing and storage facilities, would require prior approval
of IDA; assurances to this effect have been obtained during negotiations. The
maximum repayment period for medium- and long-term loans extended by ACF would
vary according to the item to be financed, between six and ten years, in-
cluding one to four years' grace.
5.17      Loan applications for medium- and long-term loans would be appraised
both by SURDU's representative and ACF's staff. Not less than 75% of loans
for groundwater development would be extended to owner-cultivators and only
after consultation with SURDU's hydrogeologist on availability of adequate
water resources, and preference would be given to loan applications originating
from groups of small farmers sharing in the investment cost and benefits, land-
lords benefiting from loans for groundwater development will be required by
Government to extend to their tenants the benefits resulting from the new land
irrigation schemes by granting to them similar crop sharing arrangements as
those presently being enjoyed by tenants on already irrigated plots. Assur-
ances to this effect have been obtained during negotiations. Applications
for short-term input loans would be prepared with the help of the extension
agents and, as security, the guarantee of two additional participating farmers
would be required.
5.18      Short-term input credit would be extended to sub-borrowers in kind
(principally fertilizer). Fertilizer would first be purchased by STRDU and
distributed to farmers through participating village merchants. The same
merchants would later be responsible for collection of outstanding loans.
Both activities - fertilizer distribution and loan collection - would be



- 22 -
remunerated by a commission which would be included in the fertilizer selling
price. The amount of the commission would be determined by the credit field
manager after careful study and consultation with ACF's general manager in
Sana'a and SURDU's manager in Ibb. AFC would keep records of all transactions
and supervise participating merchants (Annex 5).
F. Recovery of Project Cost
5.19      On the assumption of reasonable subloan repayments and efficient
collection of Zakat (production tax), total project costs would be fully re-
covered by Year 12. However, Zakat collection is difficult and only a part
of the tax due is collected by the Government; but even so, the project cost
recovery period although longer than the theoretical 12 years, would be
reasonable in view of the low standard of living of the farm families and the
nature of the investments undertaken - rural feeder roads and village water
supply systems.
G. Accounts and Audit
5.20      SURDU's accounts would be kept by its administrative officer.
Further, ACF would maintain separate accounts for short-term and medium-term
loans under the project.  All accounts maintained by SURDU and ACF would have
regular internal audits with annual audits carried out by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and to the Abu Dhabi Fund. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
H. Monitoring and Key Project Indicators
5.21      Several consultants have been provided to monitor project results.
An agricultural economist would evaluate project results relative to overall
goals, specifically to assess project benefits and beneficiaries. The land
tenure situation would be monitored by a rural sociologist, and groundwater
depletion by a hydrogeologist (details in Annex 4). In addition, periodic
reporting of key project indicators would be required (Annex 4, Table 1).
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Incremental Production and Marketing
6.01      Agricultural extension, input application and on-farm investment
under the project are expected to result in a substantial increase in produc-
tion over pre-project levels, as shown in the farm models in Annex 1 and ag-
gregated below:



- 23 -
Project Increment
Crop                                Pre-Project                at Full Development
(------------------- tons -----------------)
Sorghum                               41,000                         9,100
Maize                                   5,500                        8,800
Potatoes                                1,400                       49,300
Onions and Other Vegetables             1,400                       15,400
Beans and Other Pulses                    -                         11,900
Bananas and Tree Fruit                                               4,800
Alfalfa                                                             19,200
In monetary terms, this production increase would amount to YRls 140 million
over the pre-project level of YRls 60 million at domestic farmgate prices.
6.02      Since the country as a whole is a food deficit area, most of the
project's incremental output could substitute for food imports. Under an
import substitution assumption, the total incremental production at full dev-
elopment could cover 8% of the projected annual national deficit (1983-84) for
grain, pulses, potatoes and vegetables aggregated on a calorie basis. Under
a different assumption - that potatoes and onions produced would be exported
and sorghum imported in their place - due to favorable price relationships,
the project incremental production could cover up to 17% of the deficit re-
ferred to above. The country's demand-supply gap and project incremental
production at full development are shown below, expressed in sorghum equiva-
lent tons; details are in Annex 6.
1972/73        1983/84            %
('000 sorghum equivalent tons)
Total Domestic Demand                 1,400          1,961
Domestic Production w/o Project       1,273          1,420
Country Deficit w/o Project             127            541            100.0
Project Area Incremental                 -              41              7.6
Production (Assumption A)
Project Area Incremental                                94             17.4
Production (Assumption B)
Note:  Assumption A:  All project output would be consumed domestically.
Assumption B:  Potatoes and onions would be exported and the same
tonnage of sorghum imported in its place.



- 24 -
B. Producer Income and Prices
6.03      Due to the substantial production increase expected, income and
nutritional standards for some 21,000 farm families or about 120,000 people
would be raised significantly. Most project beneficiaries would be small,
often part-time farmers and tenants who till farms of less than 1 ha and who
must seek additional employment in the off-season to provide subsistence for
their families. These farmers comprise about 50% of the farmers iri Ibb and 60%
in Taiz. The table below shows the expected increases in farm production value
and per capita income of farm families for each of the farm models and for a
1 ha low-rainfed farm (Taiz) and a 1 ha high-rainfed farm (Ibb). It is assumed
that producer prices would not drop significantly in spite of the large proj-
ected volume increases, because of the country's food deficit position and crop
export potential. The per capita inoome figures apply only to owner-cultivators
and tenants. Details of income and producer prices are in the farm models of
Annex 1.
Production Value            Per Capita Income /a
Model                                            Full                         Full
No.         Description       Pre-Project Development    Pre-Project Development
--(------YRls--------)    (---------US$---------)
1       2.6 ha                 2,810         5,300             70           120
Rainfed-Low Rainfall
50% Owned/50% Rented
1 ha                  1,080         2,040             30 /b         50 /b
Rainfed-Low Rainfall
Owned
2       1.5 ha                 2,520         7,210             50           130
Rainfed-High Rainfall
Rented
1 ha                  1,680         4,870             35 /b         90 /b
Rainfed-High Rainfall
Rented
3a      1 ha                   7,060        27,750            120           520
Irrigated
Rented
3b      1 ha from              1,080        27,750             20 /b        520 /c
Rainfed-Low Rainfall
to Spring Irrigated
Rented
3c      1 ha
Rainfed-Low Rainfall 1,080         27,750             30 lb        770 /c
to Pump Irrigated
Owned
/a   For a six-member family from farm sources only and net of production taxes.
/b   Income from part-time farming, excluding off-farm income sources.
/c   Farmers' off-farm income at full development would be negligible, since
farming must be attended to full-time.



- 25 -
C. Employment Benefits
6.04      The project would provide, in addition to 250 nationals who would
be hired directly into SURDU, 800 man-years of employment annually over a six-
year period through the construction of rural works and buildings. An addi-
tional 80 man-years of annual employment would be generated by road maintenance
and other project investments. At full development, project farms would re-
quire 1,400 more man-years annually of hired labor due.to increased intensity
of cultivation and higher yields. Additional family labor employment that
would be generated is estimated at 8,000 man-years annually at full development
(details in Annex 7).
6.05      Employment would also be generated indirectly through packing
facilities, increased trade and transport that would result from the widespread
use of agricultural inputs and more marketable surpluses. The poorest segment
of the population in the project area is composed mostly of landless laborers
and part-time farmers who till farms of less than 1 ha. They would be the
principal beneficiaries of the employment generated by the project, especially
at the farm level.
D. Environment and Health
6.06      In addition to improving nutritional standards of participating farm
families, the project would provide some 90 village water supply systems that
would help reduce the incidence of waterborne diseases such as typhus and
cholera. However, these alone would not contribute immediately towards im-
proving the rural health situation, since most of the sources of bilharzia
and malaria would remain untouched. WHO has therefore been approached to do
a feasibility study recommending an integrated approach to health in the proj-
ect area that would, among other things, help combat any increased incidence
of bilharzia and malaria that might result from the projected increase in
irrigated area. The project would provide supporting funds for purchase of
molluscicides and other equipment to help carry out WHO's recommendations.
E. Economic Evaluation
6.07      The principal economic benefits that would be reaped from the project
are:
(a) increased crop production that would raise incomes and nutritional
standards of 120,000 people in the Southern Uplands, decrease YAR
food imports and increase exports;
(b) lower transport costs, also for non-agricultural products, as a
consequence of the expanded network of support roads;



- 26 -
(c) creation of viable institutions and manpower training in the
fields of agricultural extension and credit;
(d) increased labor productivity arising from a decrease in
waterborne diseases in 90 villages that would be provided
with water supply systems;
(e) increased regional employment arising from the civil works
component and more intensive farm cultivation.
6.08      The economic rate of return on the project's directly productive
components (as defined in Annex 7) is 23% with family labor cost shadow-priced
to zero. If costs increased by 10%, the rate of return would be 19%, whereas
if benefits were decreased by 20% the rate of return would be 12%. Should
these both occur, the rate of return would be 7%. The economic rate of return
for the project, including all costs (except family labor), is 19%. This
rate of return calculation also includes the cost of the UNDP funded CARS
which would perform, among other functions, the research and extension train-
ing for the project.
6.09      These very favorable rate of return projections are primarily due
to the expected high yield response to the application of even relatively
simple agricultural inputs like fertilizer to the nutritionally depleted soils
of one of the oldest agricultural lands in the world.
F. Risks
6.10      Major implementation risks have been outlined in previous chapters
(paras 2.04, 3.11 to 3.14, 4.07 and 5.04). Project risks arise mostly from
the country's level of development and the project's objective to reduce
some of the country's most pressing and basic bottlenecks in agriculture.
Due to the shortage of skilled manpower and effective institutions, project
implementation must rely on expatriates and on institutions that are new or
yet to be established. Trained manpower shortage may make it difficult to
find competent counterpart staff who would manage the project after the im-
plementation period. Because of the power structure inherent in the ancient
tribal society, there would be difficulty in altering the centuries-old land
tenure system where the landlord does not contribute to,the costs of agri-
culture inputs. In addition to the above "country risks", a third of the
project area also experiences drought every third year on the average which
poses an agricultural credit risk.
6.11      These risks have been fully considered in the design of the project.
In order to overcome the training and institution-building difficulties,
project implementation has been stretched over a six-year period. This would
give SURDU's staff sufficient time to select and train competent counterpart
staff. Several returning Yemenis educated abroad mostly in Eastern Europe,
would be suitable for the counterpart positions. Government recognizes the
shortage of experienced national staff and is receptive to the hiring of



- 27 -
qualified expatriate experts. The extended implementation period provides
sufficient time for the newly established agencies (CARS and ACF) to develop
improved production techniques and institute the necessary credit services.
In addition, a drought fund has also been established to counter losses due
to crop failure. Finally, government has agreed to implement a system under
which the landlord would share in the cost of inputs, thus helping to improve
the tenant farmer's position. These provisions would reduce the foreseen
risks and thus create a basis for projecting the considerable economic and
social benefits which would accrue from the project's implementation.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOkMMNDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government on
the following principal points:
(a) Government would, not later than four months after the
Effective Date, take all action necessary to introduce a
system, satisfactory to IDA, for the sharing of the cost of
farm inputs between landlords and tenants;
(b) the participation of the rural population and/or rural communi-
ties in construction of support roads, village water supply
systems and gravity irrigation schemes by contribution of free
labor and/or locally available materials or by sharing other-
wise in the construction cost would be on average about 30% of
the local cost;
(c) the location and construction standards of roads, village water
supply systems, irrigation improvements and land protection
schemes to be constructed under the project would be determined
by SURDU and would be submitted to IDA for approval;
(d) operation and maintenance costs for the village water supply
systems would be borne by the beneficiaries;
(e) not less than 75% of loans for groundwater development would
be extended to owner-cultivators and only after consultation
with SURDU's hydrogeologist on availability of adequate water
resources, and preference would be given to loan applications
originating from groups of small farmers sharing in the in-
vestment cost and benefits.
7.02      Furthermore, in addition to the customary conditions, the following
are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit:
(a) a Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU) had been
established within the Ministry of Agriculture;



- 28 -
(b) a Project Manager acceptable to IDA and to the Abu Dhabi Fund
has been appointed to lead SURDU.
7.03      With the indicated agreements and fulfillment of the above condi-
tions, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10 million, on standard
IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Government of YAR.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture
A. Background
General
1.        The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has a total cropped area of 1.5 mil-
lion ha, of which 225,000 ha (15%) are irrigated from wells, perennial springs
or periodic wadi floods. Agriculture produces about 70% of the GNP, and em-
ploys over 80% of the population of 6.2 million. In 1973, cotton and cotton-
seed accounted for 56% of YAR's total export value and coffee 17%; food imports,
nearly half of which were cereals, accounted for about 50% of the total import
value.
Agricultural Zones
2.        On the basis of rainfall, altitude and crop-livestock pattern, five
main agricultural zones can be distinguished in the country:
(a) the Coastal Belt of the Tihama, from sea level to 700 m
altitude, with an annual rainfall of 150 mm and below,
where rainfed millet is the staple food and irrigated
cotton the main cash crop; cattle raising is also
important;
(b) the Western Slopes, from 700 to 1,000 m altitude, with
400 to 600 mm annual precipitation, where sorghum is
the staple food and coffee the main cash crop;
(c) the Central and Southern Uplands including most of the
Taiz and Ibb Provinces at altitudes between 800 and 2,500 m
(exceptionally 3,000 m) and with rainfall varying between
400 and 1,000 mm. Sorghum is the staple food, coffee and
qat the main cash crops;
(d) the Intermontane Plains, above 2,000 m altitude, with 300
to 500 mm annual rainfall, where sorghum, barley and wheat
are grown besides considerable sheep and goat husbandry; and
(e) the Eastern Slopes, 1,500 to 2,500 m altitude, with marginal
rainfall, where millet is the main crop, and camels are
raised.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
In all five zones, a variety of fruits and vegetables as well as maize are
grown. Available data on land use, agricultural production, prices and
production value are given in Table 1. Livestock statistics are particularly
unreliable, since farmers underestimate the size of their herds and flocks to
reduce their taxes.
Government's Agricultural Development Strategy
3.        Government's agricultural development priorities are:
(a) increased food production to substitute present imports of
wheat and meat; and
(b)  increased production of the main export commodities--cotton
and coffee.
To achieve priority '(a)', the Central and Southern Uplands are being
developed under a German-aided extension project and a UNDP/FAO project,
respectively; a veterinary service is being built up with British aid;
Kuwait is financing a sectoral study to identify livestock investment proj-
ects; IDA is financing feasibility studies for 60,000 ha in Wadi Mawr; Abu
Dhabi is financing planning and reconstruction of the ancient Marib Dam; and
a feasibility study for developing the Ga el Hakl region is being carried
out under British technical aid. Priority '(b)' is being pursued by an IDA-
financed irrigation improvement project on 17,000 ha in Wadi Zabid; feasibil-
ity studies scheduled for Wadis Seham and Surdud; a British-financed study
of Wadi Reem; and formulation by an FAQ coffee expect of a coffee investment
project for increased production, improved processing and marketing.
B. The Project Area
Agricultural Resources and Production
4.        Location and Climate.  The project area is located in Taiz and Ibb
Provinces along the main road Sana'a-Taiz-Turba. (Maps 11052 and 11053) It
comprises an estimated 50,000 ha of cultivated land with 29,000 farms and
170,000 inhabitants, the majority of whom live in some 500 villages.  The
Sayani Pass separates the northern high rainfall region of Ibb, with 800-
1,000 mm rain p.a., from the low rainfall area of Taiz, with 400-600 mm p.a.
Rainfall in both areas occurs mainly from April to September. In Taiz there
is a probability of a drought every three years. In the absence of an agri-
cultural census, basic data for the nine subregions of the project area had
to be estimated and are presented in Table 2; available statistics for Taiz
and Ibb Provinces are presented in Table 3.
5.        Soils.  The three main soil types in the project area are well
suited for rainfed and irrigated agriculture:



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(a) the loess soils of the wide valleys of Ibb, Gibbla and Sahoul.
These are yellow-brown to red-brown calcareous silts, non-
saline, non-sodic, comparatively rich in plant nutrients,
particularly in potassium, with moderately slow permeability
and adequate moisture retention capacity.
(b) the colluvial soils on the more sloping lands adjacent to the
mountains and valley walls. These are dark grey-brown,
silty clays, non-saline, non-sodic, with moderate to
slow permeability and adequate water retention capacity,
comparatively poor in plant nutrients and therefore
responsive to fertilizer application. On higher terraces
the soils become increasingly stony.
(c) the alluvial soils of the wadi beds. These are brown
silt loams, usually over mud or gravel, non-saline, non-
sodic, with sufficient water retention. Waterlogged clay
soil at the bottom of some wadis used for grazing cannot
be reclaimed economically for cultivation.
6.        Water Use.  An estimated 2,000 ha, or 7% of the cultivated land
in the project area, are irrigated from periodic wadi floods (spate irriga-
tion), or permanent springs. Under well irrigation, capacity of many motor
pumps exceeds the wells' output, so that after a few hours of pumping, several
hours of waiting are necessary to allow for water recharge. Spate irrigation
is of little value due to its uncertainty in drought years. With irrigation
from springs, considerable water is lost by seepage in long canals and by
widely practiced over-irrigation. Also, water from some permanent flowing
wadis around Taiz is saline.
7.        Water Rights.  Water from springs and periodic wadi floods is
communal property, but land nearest to the source has priority. Water from
wells belongs to the owner of the land on which the well is constructed.
Besides irrigating the owner's land, part of the well water is frequently
sold to neighbors against a 30% crop share.
8.        Crop Production.  Two-thirds of the project area's estimated pro-
duction value of YRls 60 million is derived from sorghum and millet. In
normal years, food grain production from the Ibb Region has exceeded local
needs, whereas Taiz depends on additional supplies from neighboring areas.
Both regions require additional meat supply from the Tihama.
9.        Millet, a drought-resistent crop, predominates in areas of marginal
rainfall. In the high rainfall area at lower altitudes, maize, with its
higher production potential, tends to replace sorghum, and at high altitudes,
high yielding wheat varieties are starting to replace barley, which is now
being grown in marginal, shallow soils. In the high rainfall area pulses
are inter-cropped with sorghum and there is a considerable potato production.
In the low rainfall area there is a very limited sesame production. A large



ANNEX 1
Page 4
variety of fruits and vegetables is grown under irrigation, such as peppers,
tomatoes, cabbage, okra, eggplant, leeks, radishes, bananas, mangoes, papayas,
citrus fruits, apricots, and pomegranates. Quality of coffee is poor, due to
strip plucking, dry processing and poor grading; its production is declining,
and it fetches low prices on the export market. Lack of fertilizer applica-
tion and pest control causes an estimated 20% production loss, resulting in
low yield levels. Details on production and prices in the project area are
given in Table 3.
10.       Prices.  Producer prices (Table 3) are subject to extreme fluctua-
tion. Off-season prices reach up to twice the level prevailing at harvest
time. Small farmers must sell most of their marketable surplus at unfavorable
prices immediately after harvest to meet debt repayments. The remainder is
stored in dug out earth caves (madfans) and old gasoline drums.
11.       Livestock.  In the project area, small farmers will keep at most
a bullock for ploughing, a donkey for transport of produce, a cow or some
goats and sheep, supplemented by a few fowl. Feed shortages during dry
seasons prevent current livestock production from meeting local consumption
needs. Only irrigated alfalfa assures a regular fodder supply, even during
the dry season. Rinderpest wipes out a portion of the cattle population in
some years;-however, a vaccination campaign has been organized by the British-
aided veterinary service. Heavy poultry losses- to Newcastle disease can
only be combatted when oral vaccine, which can be introduced into the drink-
ing water, becomes available for mass application. This method is currently
being tested.
Institutional Framework
12.       Land Tenure and Farm Size.  About 15% of the cultivated land in
the project area is Waqf (property donated to Religious Trusts) and State
land. The rest is in private hands. The average size of holdings in the
Taiz and Ibb areas are about 3 and 1.5 ha, respectively. In the Taiz area
about 75% of the farms are owner cultivated; in the Ibb area the ratio be-
tween owner and tenant operated farms is reversed with tenants cultivating
nearly 70% of the farms. Eviction of tenants is reported to be rare. In
the Taiz region small farms under 1 ha cover over 10% of the cultivated area
and represent about 60% of the number of farms. In Ibb Province the percent-
ages are 17% and 50% respectively. Government levies a 10% production tax
(Zakat). The most frequent crop sharing pattern is 10% Zakat, 60-65% to the
peasant, and 25-30% to the landlord, increasing up to 68% in the case of
investment in irrigation and tree crops. Usually, the tenant bears all the
cost of agricultural inputs.
13.       Input Supply.  Fertilizer use is negligible.  Fertilizers are dis-
tributed by four main importers and by a network of merchant dealers in the
permanent rural markets. Pesticides and improved vegetable seeds on sale in
cities are rarely used. Schaub Station, near Sana'a, established with German
bilateral aid, multiplies high yielding variety seeds of wheat and potatoes



AiNEX 1
Page 5
on farmers' fields for distribution; a few farmers in the project area cur-
rently received these improved seeds.
14.       Agricultural Services.  In Taiz, a UNDP/FAO project has 17 exten-
sion agents in the field. Since 1973, a British-aided veterinary service
with one veterinarian each stationed in Taiz and Sana'a, has operated a
rinderpest vaccination campaign and demonstrates treatment against parasites.
A phytosanitary service under German aid is planned to operate in Taiz,
Sana'a and Hodeidah from mid-1974; each region will have one plant protection
specialist with mobile units and pharmaceuticals.
15.       Agricultural Experimentation.  A UNDP/FAO project team near Taiz
is carrying out experimentation in the project area, so far concentrating
only on irrigated crops such as veget.ables, fruits, potatoes and wheat.
A Central Agricultural Research Station (CARS) started operating under
UNDP/FAO technical assistance starting in the summer of 1974.
16.       The Ministry of Agriculture.  Organization of the Ministry is being
reviewed by a bilateral technical assistance team from Syria and by UiDP
experts. The Ministry has field offices in Ibb and Taiz. The Central Plan-
ning Organization (CPO), directly attached to the Prime Minister's Office,
coordinates development activities of different ministries financed from
different bilateral and multilateral sources.
Development Constraints and Prospects
17.       Water.  About 40% of the project area has low rainfall and a drought
every third year. Well irrigation and water conservation by lining canals
and improving irrigation techniques in existing schemes would be the solu-
tion for a limited number of farmers, allowing them intercropping of high
income yielding vegetable crops with coffee and fruit.
18.       Plant Nutrients.  Soils are impoverished from continuous cultiva-
tion without nutrient replacement. Fertilizer application would allow in-
tercropping and expansion of high income crops, especially potatoes. Crop
yields increase over 50% with the addition of fertilizer alone, and farmers
have readily made use of it in recent limited distribution schemes.
19.       Plant Protection.  Plant pest reduce crop yield by as much as 20%.
Seed-borne disease, the most prevalent, could be reduced by application of
seed dressings. Other problems are caused by insect infestation of sorghum
and maize by aphids and stem borers, and damage from other pests to potatoes,
fruit and vegetables.
20.       Land Tenure.  A large number of small sharecroppers are discouraged
from applying inputs, as the cost traditionally is borne by the tenant, with
no contribution by the landowner. Government has agreed to take all neces-
sary measures towards the landlords' participation in input costs, assured
tenancy, and compensation for input costs in cases of eviction.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
21.       Fodder Shortage.  The dry season is the main constraint to livestock
production. Alfalfa cultivaticn for perennial fodder supply would become
available with irrigation. Double cropping with a grain crop and a subsequent
fodder crop might become possible for the high rainfall area, if suitable
species of fodder crop can be identified by CARS.
C. The Project
Objectives
22.       The project aims to raise productivity and income of a large number
of small farmers currently living at subsistence level. Over six years,
extension, input supply, and other support services would reach approximately
21,000 farm families or about 120,000 people. Additional families would
derive indirect benefits from infrastructure improvements and project serv-
ices.
Farm Development Concept
23.       The small farmer's income would be raised by the introduction over
four years of a sequence of improved production techniques. During Year 1,
fertilizer would be systematically applied on the total cropped farm area,
and bean intercropping would be propagated in the high rainfall area. In
Year 2, seed dressing and spraying would combat the economically most import-
ant pests (smut, aphids, phytophtera), which currently cause losses estimated
at 20% of production. During Year 3, seeds of high yielding varieties would
be used. Where sufficient water supply permits, an intensified cropping
pattern would be introduced from Year 4, based in the high rainfall area on
the expansion of potato cultivation and for irrigated farms on vegetable
double cropping and planting of fruits (bananas, citrus) and other tree crops
(coffee). The project proposes irrigation development of 1,000 ha, from
motor pump equipped wells, from springs, and by saving water through canal
lining and improved irrigation techniques. Geohydrological surveys of catch-
ment areas would define number, spacing and capacity of wells, to avoid
groundwater over-exploitation.
Agricultural Extension and Training
24.       Innovations would be transmitted to the individual farmer by the
agricultural extension service of the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
(SURDU). The project would take over the seven midlands extension agents
already working in the area. One year before the project's start, the UNDP/
FAO project will begin to train, over four years, 176 extension agents-and
19 extension supervisors, recruited from available secondary school graduates,
who will receive continuous additional in-service training from project staff.
Extension agents would receive a field service incentive premium from project
funds in addition to Government salary, but they would be permanently employed



ANNEX 1
Page 7
only after one year of successful field work. Extension services would com-
prise:
(a) demonstration plots on farmers'fields;
(b) continuous advice by each extension agent to three model
farmers under special agreement in different villages; and
(c) on-farm advice to 40, 30 and 20 additional farmers in low
rainfall, high rainfall, and irrigated areas, respectively,
per extension agent per year, increasing to 240, 180 and 120
farmers, respectively, by Project Year 6.
More details on the build-up of extension personnel are in Table 4.
Supporting Services
25.       Project agricultural experimentation will be carried out by the
UNDP/FAO project; this must be reoriented towards rainfed agriculture with
priority given to identifying high yielding varieties in the high rainfall
region for sorghum; millet; non-shedding sesame and other oilseeds, and
fodder crops such as stylosanthes, clover and other legumes for cultivation
after a grain crop. The project's agricultural credit program is described
in Annex 4. Consultants in the field of seed potato production and vegetable
processing and marketing would provide technical assistance under the project.
Farm Models
26.       To illustrate on-farm development, three farm models have been
drawn up for the respective ecological environments. A summary of principal
characteristics of each model is in Table 5:
Model 1:        Rainfed - Low Rainfall
Model 2:        Rainfed - High Rainfall
M{odel 3a:      Currently irrigated
3b:      Canal-irrigated
3c:      Pump-irrigated
27.       Model 1:  Rainfed - Low Rainfall.  This model.illustrates the
development pattern of a farm in the low rainfall area (400-600 mm p.a.),
mainly in Taiz Province. Low and unreliable rainfall permits only sorghum/
millet on a monoculture basis. The scope for productivity improvement is
limited to: (a) modest fertilizer application; (b) plant protection; and
(c) seeds of higher yielding, drought-resistant varieties. Further details
on the proposed development, including input/output, cost and price assump-
tions, are in Table 6 and 7.
28.       Model 2:  Rainfed - High Rainfall.  This model illustrates the
development pattern of a farm with higher, more reliable rainfall (600-1,000
mm p.a.), in the northern part of the project area, mainly in Ibb Province.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Although sorghum would be the predominant crop, the higher rainfall permits:
(a) intercropping with beans, coupled with higher rates of fertilizer applica-
tion; (b) protection for sorghum and beans; and (c) introduction of maize
and potatoes to be grown aside from sorghum intercropped with beans. At
higher elevations, barley would be substituted for high yielding wheat varie-
ties. Although double cropping with a fodder crop may be feasible in some
locations, the cropping pattern of Model 2 has been confined to single
cropping. Further details are in Table 8.
29.       Model 3:  Irrigated.  This model illustrates the basic development
pattern for currently irrigated farms (Model 3a), for farms to be newly
irrigated through project investments for expansion of existing canal irri-
gation schemes (Model 3b), and for pump-irrigated farms (Model 3c).
30.       At full development, there would be little difference in cropping
patterns of the three irrigated models, except in the pre-project year when
only single cropping would be possible on farms represented by Model 3b and
3c while currently irrigated farms (Model 3a) would already be engaged in
double cropping (two crops of maize during one year). Principal innovations
for all the three irrigated models would be: (a) substantially higher rates
of fertilizer application; (b) plant protection; (c) high yielding seeds; and
(d) potatoes, onions, bananas.. coffee or other tree fruit and alfalfa, as
a partial substitute for maize. Further details are in Tables 9-11.
Estimated Project Results
31.       By Year 6, 21,000 farmers would be participating and 125,000 people
would directly benefit. At full development, by Year 9, fertilizer consump-
tion would have built up to 7,300 tons annually, resulting, along with the
other improvements, in an incremental production of 18,000 tons of food grains,
50,000 tons of potatoes, 17,000 tons of onions, 12,000 tons of beans, and 5,000
tons of bananas and other fruit; also, incremental production of alfalfa would
represent a production potential of about 5,000 lambs. 1/ While incremental
production of grains, beans, fruits, meat and milk would be consumed locally,
a substantial portion of potatoes and vegetables would be exported. Increased
production would improve nutrition in the project area by enabling increased
vegetable and fruit consumption and a higher protein intake from beans, meat
and milk. In addition, participating farmers' cash income would be raised
by sales of increased marketable surplus.
1/ One ewe with lamb requires about 4 tons of green alfalfa per year.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                                              AMNEX .
Table  I
SOUTHERN UPLAIDS RURAL DEVEWL PDU PROJECT
P.asic Agricultural Data of the YAR
A. Area Under Different Crops
Crop           ~~~~1969/70               1970/71                 421972                   1972/73
'000 ha      S          '000        lb           100         'k               7a
Sorghum and Millet          1,200        82.0        1,230        81.5        1,200         75.6p     1,100        72.1
Wheat                          35         2.4           30         2.0            50         3.5         50          3.3
Barley                        145         9.9          140         9.3          143          9.8        143         9.4
Maize                           4         0.3           16         1.0           50          3.5         50         3.3
Total Cereals            1,384        94.6        1,416        93.8        1,343         92.4      1,343        88.1
Pulses                         50         3.4           50         3.3           60          4.1         60         3.9
Potatoes                        4         0.3            6         o.4            5          0.3        5.5         0.3
Vegetables                      8         0.5           10         0.7           15         1.0        16.5         1.1
Grapes                          4         0.3            6         o.4            7         0.5         7.5         0.5
Coffee                          5         0.3           6          o.4            6         0.4         7.5         0.5
Cotton                          5         0.3          10          0.7           15         1.0          20         1.3
Tobacco                         4         0.3           4          0.3            4         0.3         4.2         0.3
Sesame                                                                                                    8         0.5
Fruits                                                                                                   10         0.7
X,-t                                      -                                                            43          2.8
Total Cultivated Area    1,464       100.0        1,508        100.0       1,455         LOO.0   1,525.2        100.0
B. Agricultural Production
Crop     1969/70    1 70 Quantity                      Price                           Value                        of Total
ton) -------------    (  97-------------I1 
Sorghum and Millet          680          984       1,020       goo       753.67      512,496    741,611    768,743    678,303          58.0
Wheat                         -           33          54        50       671.50         -        22,160      36,261     33,575          2.9
Barley                      160          154         178       164       666.50      106,640    102,641    118,637    109,306           9.3
Maize                         9           32          80        80       739.33        6,654     23,659      59,146     59,146          5.1
Total Cereals             849       1,203        1,332     1,194          -        625,790    890,072    982,787    880,330          75.3
Pulses                       50           60          60        56     1,599.6        79,980     95,976     95,976      89,576          7.7
Potatoes                     20           55          58        64       500          10,000     27,500     29,000      32,000          2.7
Vegetables                   50          100         137       150        467.50      23,375     46,750      64,o46     70,125          6.o
Orapes                       10           30          35        35     1,860          18,600     55,800     65,100      65,100          5.5
Coffee                        4            4           5         5     2,002.50        8,010      8,010     10,013      10,013          o.8
Cotton                        2           10          15      18.5     1,000           2,000     10,000     15,000      18,500          1.6
Tobacco                       2            3           5         5       870           1,740      2,610      4,350       4,350          0.4
Total Production Value                                                             76425   136.717   L266274            ,100.0
1    There are no statistical data on production of sesame, fruits apd qat.
C.      Livestock Population and Production
Livestock                  1961        1962        1963         1964        1965        1966         1967        1968         1969        1970         1971
-T-----_ -    -_-------_____------------------- In '000 he  ---------------------------------------------------------------
Population
Cattle               1,280       1,270       1,240        1,250       1,260       1,200        1,179         962         856         813          957
Sheep and Goats    11,160       11,270      11,380       11,500      11,600      10,572       11,023      10,510       8,592       8,769       10,627
Camels                  53          53           54          55          55          75           61         53            51         52           69
Horses                   3           3            3           3           3           3            3           3            2          3             4
Donkeys                                                                             512          619         596          512        511          672
Animals Slaughtered
Cattle                                                                                                                           100.476       99.636
Goats                                                                                                                           117.663       101.994
Sheep                                                                                                                           105.450       122.207
SOURCE: YAR Central PlanninrE Organization, Statistical Year Book 1772, and draft 1973.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN_UPLANDS RURAL DEVELPMENT PROJECT
Basic Agricultural Data of the Project Area
Cultivated Area
Subregions in the      Annual       Rainfall2               'lwpical      Permanently
Project Areaf         Rainfall       Pattern    Altitude    Crop           Irrigated          Rainfed     Total
(mm)                        (in)                    -  _________-ha-----------------
In Ibb Province
1   Kaida              6OO               L         1,500   Sorghum
Thisufal          600               L          2,500   Barley            300             4,700        5,000
Sayani            600               L          1,500   Sorghum
2   Jiblah           800-1,000           H         2,000   Potatoes
W. Meytan       800-1,000           H          1,500   Maize                                          5,000
3   Sahoul           800-1,000           H         1,800   Maize                                         16,000
700            29,300
4   Sheban           800-1,000          H          1,500   Maize                                          4,000
5   Badan           800-1,000           H          2,500   Barley                                         5,000
TOTAL                                                                1,000            34,000       35,000
In Taiz Province
5   Ausseiffera      430 - 865           L         1,500   Maize
Part of W.Maleh   600               L          1,500   Maize              80             2,620       2,700
7   Haimat             600               L         1,500   Maize              140
W. Maleh           600              L          1,500   Maize              80             1,780       2,000
8   W. Baracan         500              L          1,000   Bananas             50
W. Safia          500               L          1,000   Bananas           190             4,460       4,700
9   Misrakh            470               L         1,200   Maize               70
W. Dabab          500               L          1,500   Bananas           290             5,140       5,600
Qadaha            500               L          1,000   Bananas           100
TOTAL                                                                1,000            14,000      15,000
PROJECT TOTAL                                                              2,000            48,Q0Q      50,000
1/ Subregion numbers given correspond to areas in map IBRD No. 11053.
2/ L indicates low rainfall pattern with annual precipitation of 600 mm p.a. and below.
H indicates high rainfall pattern of 800 to 1,000 mm p.a. and above.
j Project preparation report's figures (Annex 5, pages 3 and 4), based on aerial photo interpretation,
were accepted for total cultivated area and rounded off for irrigated land in Taiz province.
/ Project preparation report's figure for irrigated land in Ibb province obtained by extrapolation of
very limited field survey results appeared too high after a UN volunteer's aerial photo interpretation.
Therefore, 1,000 ha of irrigated land were assumed for Ibb province.



AMX I
YhIE  AR"A FlPEmLIC
SOUIII UPLAND  RURAL DEVEAWFUW  PIWWT
Bain Agrinultur&X lAts for Taia and lbb Provincea
A. 111f. Fonuleti end La nd cUse
_    _                             Unit          ?                     B     Lth
1970                         me         not available    1,050
1971                         ,m                          1,118
V972                           0                *          ]1h3
Fowti4n
Nxer                          000             709          909        1,618
Density                      Per 12           56            69
lAd V.
Cultivated area
Irrigated
Flood                   '000 ha          10            -           10
Ferrenial springs      '000 hk           18           20           38
Wells                   '000 h            1            1            2
Subtotal             '000 b& .         5            f          l
Rlinfed                   '000 ha          221          279          500
Total               '000 h&          250           300         550
Margin-l a                    '000 ha        lO            50          150
Forest cd shrhbs              '000 ha         500          400          900
Other                        'OO h0           350          550          900
'otal                        '000 ha        1,200        1,300        2,500
B. Prodoction an Priesa
Sorgbpl/                         Total                                                                                                  Ttol
Category               Uhit         Millet   V.I..  Wheat  Brly    raing   Sesae    Pule         Pottoes  Vegetables   Fruits  coffee   1eL2    Cottocl    TobaxocL3   Cr0ps
Are, Cro-pd
Tami            '000 Da           190       20      2        6      218       1        12         1.2        4.5         3       1      10          1          0.1      251.6
Cbb               000 ha           05      18      18        0     27         1         8        3           1.0         1       2      15          ._                  3020.
Toa   000 he                 -73    '88       '-f                          20                  -                      3 -
Thtal    '    O    C O3                                                                                  3            h                                   Oi  3  25    0..  553.9
Tai              per cent       75.51     7.95    0.79    2.38   86.65     0.40      4.77       0.40        1.79      1.19    00 4    3.97       0.40         0.04        100
Cbb              per nent       67.,8   54       5.95     9.92   "8963    0.33       2.65       1,09                 0.         66    4.96          -            -        100
Total       per cent       7131                T     6.50   8W          i 3      .           7F 09               07                51       0.1          0.02        100
Production
Wa.s            '0  Ito           200       30      2        8      240     0.5        14         12          35        18      0.77     -          1          0.1        n/.
Ibb              ' 000tDD         255      i6      2 54            368      0 5        10         39          10        6    __1 3       _          __
Tuotal      '000o a ton     1i5:                          S                                  31    i         9 0             . 0- -1 -"85 
P. Gate Price1eL
Tais             Yils/- ton    1,020.0   951.6  900.0   888.o           2,925.6  20250.6         600         645    1,000   2,748        -      1,200        1,044        0/0
Cbb             YRls/s ton      853.0   882.0  711.6   711.6            12517.2  2,520.0         600         92                                                           ./a
Total       Tile/a6 too     603 81879  85.3                        9T80r,ooo _ !                                                                            .0/0
Production Valu
Tait             Me misin       204       29    1.8      7.1   241.9      1.5      31.5        7.2        22.6        18     1.9       _        1.2          0.1      325.9
lbb              YRis adilion     218     32   16. 4              004       0.7      25.2       23.6         9.3         6     2.7       -      ..*                     372.1
Total       yils million   -M9             -in       6Ri 7             879                              1  I                                                        _ -98    0
Tel,             per vent       62.50    8.90   0.60    2.20   74.20    0.46         9.67        2.21       6.93      5.52    0.58       -       0.37         0.03        10o
ob      I        per eent        L 3a5    8.60   46.1            8                                            50       .61                                                100
Total       per nent       60.46   'T71W   7379!V                                44+                             3-  8-78- 0-19'  638                   o75-i   18
A   1970/71 prine vero ineored by 20% to allow for n aual price itor.   of 10%. FOr pulses, the aerage price for beans and lantils as used; for vegetables, the average price
for t    .t0  sod onions; and for fruits, the pric  of bancan.
2 No dta atilable fr qat production nd produoction value.
/3 Cotton and tobacco not gromo in lbb Province.
nource: YAR Centl Planning Organiation, drafr version of 1973 Statistical Yeem Book.



ANNEX 1
Table4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLAIW$ RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture Extension Service
Pre
Project  Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6
Exension Agents Availability
Number of extension agents
- being trained                               30        60      60      60       42      -      -
- entering service /1                                   22      45      45       45      31       _
- nre-nroject trained and absorbed              !        7      -       -        -       -        -
- qualifying for sunervisors /2                         -2      -5      -4       -4      -4       -
Yearly increase in number of agents                           27      40       41      41       27      -
Number of agents in serving with nroject                      27      67      108     149      176     176
Low Rainfed Farms (Model 1) /3
Number of agents assigsned during year /4                      4       9       10       3        1      -
'otal number of agents in service                              4      13       23      26      27       27
Number of farms covered                                      160     680   1,600   2,640      370   4,800
High Rainfed Farms (Model 2) /9
Number of Agents assigned during year /4                      19      14       27      36       26      -
Total number of agents in service                             19      33       60      96     122      122
Number of farms covered                                      570   1,560   3,360   6,240   9,900  13,560
Irrigated Farms (Model 3) /6
Number of agents assigned during year A                        4      17        4       2       -       -
Total number of agents in service                              4      21       25      27      27       27
Number of farms covered                                       80     500   1,000   1,540   2,080   2,620
/1  25% dropout during training.
72  It is assumed that about 10% of agents will qualify as supervisor.
73  Agents would supervise each year 40 additional farms with a maximum of 240 farms for agent.
74  Two basic considerations in calculating the ohasing of farms covered by extension services were:
(a)  The availability of extension agents which is the function of the training capacity, and
(b) Availability of new irrigation facilities
/5 Agents would supervise each year 30 additional farms with a maximum of 180 farms for agent.
76  Agents would supervise each year 20 additional farms with a maximum of 120 farms for agent.



ANNEX 1
YUlM  ARAB PEPUBLIC                                                ;IW3
SOUHEBRN UPLJADS RURAL DELVILOWM    PROJECT
Assumptions for Farm Models
1.  Fertilizer Prices
-be folloindg fertilizer "rices hare been taken into consideration in cJalclatione of aependiture.
(a) UREA, N46, YRIs 1,400-/M Ton:
(b) DAP, N-P205 18-46, YPRl 1,400/M T.n:
(c) tariate of Potassius, E2o 6o. YRis 600/A Ton.
2.  Yields Obtained and Quantity of Fertiliser Used
(Yields in g.,/ha, fertiltzer quantities in kg/ha.)
Crop Variety           Variety of    P2     4sp+Yea            year   I               Y e a r   2            Y e ar   3              Y ear   4
r   Fert;lixer    YiIIC5FYIIU        Yielr7&!lzeI           Yield  er-tiluser      Yield  Fertiuioer       clold  FerCliz-er
pgmpilet                                    Qantity      -         Qountity                Quantity               (uantity                Quantity
org BiAiififl Area        N          0.9                    1.4          30        1.5          30         1.7        40          1.7          40
P205                                          10                     10                     15                      15
Nigh Rainfall Area        N          i.4         23         1.8          43        1.9          43        2.1         65          2.1          65
P205                   -                      16                      16                    24                      24
Been
Tigh Rainfall Are.        N          _            -         o.6           7       o.65           7         0.7          7         0.7           7
P205                   -                      16                     i6                     16                      16
Potatoes and Onions
Righ Rainfall Area        N                      -                       -                                            -                        40
P05                                                                  -          -           -         10.0          40
K20                    -                      -                                             -                       40
Irrigated Area            N .                                           60                      60                   100                      100
P205     10.0          _        14.o          60        15.0         60        20.0         80        20.0          80
1C20                                          60                     6o                     80                      80
Xigh Reiafall Area        N                                  -           _                      _                     -           2.5         80
P205                   -                                              -                     -                       32
Irrigated Area            N         2.2          -          3.0         60         3.1          60        3.5         90          3.5          90
P205                   -                      22                     22                     35                      35
Alfalfa
Irrigated Ares            N                                             -                       -                     20                       -
P209      -            -         -            -          -           _          40.0       100        80 0          50
1(20                                                                                        4                      25
Bananas
Irrigated Area            N                                                                                           6 _  -  60             120
P205      -            -         -            -          -           -          -           50         10 0        100
K20                    -                      -                       -                     40                      80
3.  Plnughing
For Fa-  Models  I "d  2 no nests for olonghiog are -onsidered, sin-e it is dune by the farser and hic owe bulndk.  Inter-ropp.d beens
do not require extra oloughing.
For Model 3 forss, hiring of bullockn for ploughing in usound soYRTI  150/he for grsins Yith one additional plonghing at YBRs 200/ha
for potatoes or vegetables.          One pair of bullooks hired at YBRI 12/day requires 12 day. to prepare 1 ha for groain soing.
4. Seed Rates and Seed Dre.aing
Carhbnai Drrses-is
Crop                     Seed Rute                     Sogntit                Costs 1L
(Ei7g/a)                                           TYiT6i  (TRhsbha)
Sorghum                       50                          30                      3
Resasz                        0o                          30                      1
Beanc                         80                         50                       5
Fortto-s                   1,i00                          _
Oni.na                       1i
Alf-lfa                       30
Li YRIs 100 per I kg carbosins.
5.  Inosoticide and Fungicide Spraying
Crro                Riu  Infestation          Theica  Applied       Ratsof Apac li o           CotZ/ha       No. of Iprayirgs        Total Cosn/ia
Grains and Beens  Aphids                         Carbaryl                 0.5                    15                  1                   1S
Vregetables         Aphids                       Car-aryl                  0.5                   15                  2                   30
Potatoes           Phyto-htora Infestence        Fogicide                 /2                     15/3                2                   30
Li Asnused price for -arbaryl is YROl 30/kg.
72 Roe soecified.
73  Assuned.
RUTS: In the fCrn models  cpraying of total croc area is assumed, though ncreilly ooly eart of the  area  -o1ld require treatoent.
6.  Hired Labor
Farmers sim at finiching h-roset quickly -o -ooid teft; therefore. hired  Icab- is enoleed for harvesting only. -ena  n  nsall fawns   Preoset
vage YRIs 4/day + YR1 i allowance eor fond, qat and nigareltes. totalitg YRis 5/dpy.
Laobe Hired:
per hi  scrghi-     3 laborers for 3 days at YR1n 5/day   =   YRlo  50/ha
per ha moeatoas    2 laborers for 20 days at YR1s 5/day  =   YRIs 200/ha
7. Pa-king Ccsts
Grains              :  YRl 10/5o00/g
Potatoes and Onions: YRls 10/1000/hg
S. Bananas - Inputs for Plantieg
Iouts                   'LJt                    Qloetity                   Unit Price                   I(pot Costs
Digging Holes         na-days/ha                   100                         5.00                          500
Plants                plapts/ha                  2,500                         0.25                          625
Plenting              man-days/ha                   60                         5.00                          300
9.  Fsmily Conutic
Per capita fCooly o-couptico of groins in genralnly ossemed to increase from 190 kg pre-project to 220 kg with rising g-ein production.
Per capita fanily  -co-uption c! pottcs. in assused et 25 kg, beans 20 kg, cnions 10 kg, end bananos 50 kg, frPo  first year of
producetin cnrds.
10.  Transport
It in assumed that the faCoer vill transport ti  market. using his sun donkey, op to 1 tos of produce for a single crop.   If  the
_olume _ocsedo 1 toe  oer a nigle  rcp he will transport it by donkey to the  ain red and from ther  by  rok in the k         et mrket
at a cost of YtI i/tcn/ko f   a  snoozed diotasee of 10 ka, on that a tran port charge  f ORs 10/inn of prduce sill is hex rgsd.



YEM  ARAB R1UBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOP_MT PROJECT
Farm Madel 1: Rainfed - low Rainfall (Tais Region)
2.6 Ha. 50 Owned, 50% Rented, One Draft Animal
year
PRODJOTION PATTERN                              UNIT  PRE0JECT              1          2
Output
Sorghuk
Yield                                      kg/ha      900            12400      1,50    470
Volume                                     kg       2, 340           3,,640     3,900    4,420
Less production tax (Zakat) at 10%
of volume                                kg         234              364        390      442
Less landlord's share at 25% of rental
portion                                  kg         292              455        487      552
Less family consumption (six members)      kg       1,140            1,140      1,200    1,320
Net volume                                 kg         674            1,681      1,823    2,106
Total Marketable Output 1R1 1.2/kg           YR1        809            2,017      2,188    2,527
Inputs
Seeds 50 kg/ha at YRl 1.2/kg               YRl        156              156        156      156
Fertiliser                                 YR1        -                286        286390
Chemicals at IRla 18/ha from Year 2        YR1        -                 -          477
Hired labor at YRla 5O/ha                             130               130       130      130
Bags YRla 20 to 30/ha                       R                           78            
Total Inputs                                  R         338               650       697      801
Net Cash Surplus                             YRJ1       471             10367     1,491    1,726
SourCe:  Based on assumptions presented in Table 5.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
YEMENI ARAB REPUBLIC                                                        t
SOTIERN UPLANDS RURAL SEVEOWy'Tk   PROJ2CT
Far    de1 2      ifd   Hi    sinfall  Ibb Re on
'S              -             ' 2    Year                    4
PRODUCTION PATTERN                                  UN1T      PR&EPBKJECT          1                2
A~reahg.                                                                    1.5             1.5             1.51
ield                                        kgha        i,*o              ,800            1,5900         2,100          2,100
ielume                                      kg/ha       2,                2,700           2,850          12150          2,100
less production tax (zakat) at 10,c         k28%5                                                           315          522
of' volume                     ~~~           ~~~~~kg  210      270              28535210
Less landlord's share at 25%, of volume   kg              525                                            1,320         1,320
less fmily  onsumtion (six membaers)    kg           960            i,140            1,200          1,20          1,32
Less favilYm                                kg            405               615             653             728            45
Set valuMe a   R1.agYl                                    46738                             784            874             54
Beans (intercropped with Sorghum and Maize)
Area                             h~     ~     ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~a  -  1.5  1.5          1.5           1.25
AYrel                                       kg/ha          -                600             650             700          700
elue                                        kg/h          -                 900             975           1,050          875
Vraolues                                    kg;/a~~~~l   o
less production tax (zakat) at 10s                                                                                       250
ofr volume                                kg            -_0                                98 _0                       127
Less family consumption                     kg                              12                                          1208
Net volume                                  kg                              6               757                          628
Net value at YRl L.5/kg                     YR1                           1,035           1,135          1,237         1,002
Potatoes                                                                                                                 25
Area                                        ha                                                                           250
Yield                                       kg/ha                   -                -                      -         10,00
Volume                                      kg                                                                         2 _-  -  2500
Less production tax (zakat) at 10%2
of volume                                 kg                                                                           6 2 -  25
Less landlord's share at 25,% of volume   kg               _                _
Less family eosneAtsilon                    kg            ..--150
Net volume                                  kg             _                _                                          1,475
Net value at YB&1.1/kg                      YR1                    -                -                       -          1,622
Maize M                                                                                                                  25
Area                                        ha                                              --25
Yield                                      -kg            -                                 --                        2,500
Volume                                      kg             --                                               -625
Less production tax (Zakat) at 10%                                                                                        '
of  olume                                 kg 
Less landlord's share at 25Y   of volume   kg              9                 9               9               9           156
Net volume                                  kg             ----407
Net value at YNl 1/kg                       YRI            --                                                            407
Total Marketable OutPut                        YSl            86i31,9-19                                    2,111        3,085
lnputs
Scrhu
Seeds 50 kg/ha at YRI 1.2/kg                YSl            90                90              90              90           60
Fertilizer                                  YR1           105               241             241             353         2W2
chemicals YRls18/ha from Year 2             YRH           -                 -                27              27           18
Hired labor YR1s 50/ha                      YR1           _                  75              75              75           50
Bags YBls 20-40/ha                          YB1             30               45               60             60           40
Total Inpu's, Sorghum                       Y11           225               451            57                35          410
Beans
Seeds 80 kg/ha at YR1 1,/kg                VYR            -                 120             120             120          100
Fertilizer                                  YR1            -                 76              76              76           63
Chemicels YRis 20/ha                        YB1           -                 -                30              30           25
Bags YRIs 10/ha                             YR1           -                  15              15              15           13
Total Inputs,Beans                          YR Y111                                         21             2             201
Potatoes
Seed, 1,20 kg/ha at YRI 1.5/kg              15            --                                                -            450
Fertilizer                                  YH1           -                 -               -               -             59
Chenicals at YRHl 30/ha                     YR1                                             -               -              7
Hired labor at YISs 200/ha                  'fp           -                                 -               -             50
Sags at YRIs 100/ha                         FRI                                             -               -             25
Trarsport 1.5/m ton at YRls 10/m ton        YR1                                             -               -             15
Total Inputs, Potatoes                      YRI           -                 -                               -0
Maize
Seeds 50 kg at YR]. 1.5/kg                  YRI           -                 -               -               -             19
Fertilizer                                  YR1                                             -               -
Chemicals YRls 18/ha                        YR1           -                 _               -               -              5
Hired labor at YRIs 50/ha                   YB1           _                 _               _               _             12
Bsags at YRTS 50/ha                         YR1           -                 _               -               -             12
Total Inputs                                  YR1                                               3 W  %                   13
Net Cash Surplus                              YB1            261            1,111           1,185           1,255        1,745
N So family conaumption of melee ha assumed.
&11=1 Based on assumptions presented in Table 5



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLTC
SOUTRERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
:Fer  Model 3a:  irrigated (Ttic or 1bb Region)
PRE-                         1 ha, Rented, No Drart Animals                                                                    PRE-
PRODUCTION PATTERN                                         UNIT    PROJECT                    Y E A R                       PRODUCTION PATTERN                                          'vlUTT    PROTECT                  Y E A R
1         2 -        3          4          Iuts                                                                             1                    3          4
Outout                                                                                                                           Raize
MVaize                                                he         1.8       1,8        1.8       1.1lo07ghing YRls 150/ha                                                           YRls       270       270        270        165        105
Yield                                                  ha        i.8       i.8        1.8       1.1        0.7              Reeds  50 kg/ha (at) IRis 1.5/kg                       YRls       135       135        135         82         52
Yield                                                 kg/ha   2,200    3,000       3,100      3,500      3,500              Fertilizer                                             Y           -                   131         37         2
Volume                                                kg       3,960    5,400      5,580      3,850      2,450              Chemical YRis 18/ha from Year 2 onward                 YRs s                401        432        3270       213
Less prodoction tax (Zakat) (at) 108 of volume        kg         396       540        558       385        245              Hired labor YR1s 50/ha                                 YRES        90        90         90         55        35
Less landlord's sbare (at) 30o' of volome             kg       1,188    1,620      1,674      1,155        735              Bagging cost                                           YRls        90        908        90         5,        49
Less family consomption (siX members)                 kg       1,140    1,140      1,200      1,320      1,320              Transort                                               YRs         12        1          18         77        49
Net volume                                             kg      1,236    2,100      2,148        990        150              Totgi. Topots, Maize                                   YRls       597    1,025      1,057        772        491
Net valoe (at) Thi 1/kg                               YRIo    1,236    2,100       2,148        990        150              Potatoes
Areatm                                                 h         0.        0.         0.1      03         035Ploughin  YRls 200/ha                                                 YEIs        20        20        20         70         76
Yield                                                   ha   10,000               150       2000    203                    Sees 1,200 kg/ha (at) YRls 1.5/kg                      YRls       180       180o      10         630        630
Yield                                  ~~~kg/ha           1100  4,000 500        0  00    2   0               Fertilizer                                             YRls        -         35         35        186        186
Volume                                                kg       1,000    1 400      1.500      7,0vO      7,000              Chemicals YR1s 30/ha from Year 2                       YRis        -                              10         10
Less Drodoction tax (Zakat) (at) 10% of volume        kg         100       i40        150       700        700              Mired labor YRls 200/ha                               yRls         20       20         200
Less landlord'a share (at) 30o  of volue             kg         300       420        450     2,100      2,100                        ost70
NBagging cotYRIa                                                   10        14        iS         70         70
less family consomption                               kg         150       150        150       150        150              Transport                                               Rls        10  -               -          40         40
Net volume                                             kg        450       690        750     4,050      4,s5               Total Inputs, Potatoes                                            230      272        273      1,076      1,76
Bet Vale (at) YRI 1.1/kg                               YRIs      1495      759        825     14,455     4,455              Onions                                                 Yl          3         7          7        ,7        .7
Onions                                                                                       P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2I~l  ng YR8200/ha             VRIs         20       20         20         70         70
Onions                                                kg/ha      0.1       0.1        0 1      0.35       0.35              Seeds 12 kg/ha at YRIs 100/kg from Year 3 onward   YRls            -        -          -         4270       420
Yield                                                  kg/ha, 10,000   14,000    15,000    20,000    20,000                 Fertilizer                                            VRts         -        35         35        186        I86
"oloume                                               kg       1,000    1,400      1,500      7,000      7.000             Chemicals YRls 30/ha                                   VRls         -         3          3         10         10
Less vrodoction tax (Zakat) (at) 101 of -olume         kg        100       140        150       700        700             Ragging cost                                           YRls         10       14         15         70         70
Less landlord's share (at) 30to of  omume              kg        300       420        45o     2,100      2.100             Hired labor YRls 200/ha                                YRls        20        20         20         70         70
Less family consaption                                 kg         60        60         6o         60        60             Transport                                              YR1o         -        -          -          40         40
Net vele (at) YRls 2/kg                                Y7Rs    1,00    1,560        1,680     4,2840     4 2840             Total Inputs, Onions                                  YRls         50       92         93        866        866
Alfalfa  Ll                                                                                                                PloughisgYRls 200/ha                                   YRls         -        -          -          20
Area                                                   ha          -        -          _         0.1       0.1             Seeds 30 kg/ha at YRBs 30/kg                           YRls         -        -          -          9o         -
Yield green fodder                                     kg/h        -        -                40,000    80,000              Fertilizer                                             YRIs                                        9
Volume                                  ~~~~~~~kg/haoo                                     8o,o              Petl0e0Rs                                                                                          29         1.2
Volone                                                kg          -         -          _      14,000     8,000             Chemicals YRls 15/ha                                    RIs        -         _          -           2          2
Less landlord's share (at) 30% of volum                kg         _         -          -      1,200      2,400             Total Inputs, Alfalfa                                   RIs        -         -                                14
Ret olmme                                              kg          -        _          _      2,800      5,60o             Bananas
Net value (at) YR1 0.2/kg                              YRls        -        -          -         560     1,120              roaedgging at YRls 500/ha                             YRis        -         -          -         100         -
Banana                                                                                                                     Plants 2500/ha (at) YRls 0.25/ha                       YRls        -         -          -         125
Area  kg/ha                          10.0020            Pianting days 60/ha at YRIs 5/day                     YVR1         -         -          -          60
Yield                                                  kg/ha       -        -          -          -     10,000             FertilizerVts                                                      ---612
Volumle                                                kg          _        _          _          _      2,000             Chemicals                                              Yls         -                    -          63       9126
Less production tax (ZEat) (at) 108 of volume          kg          _        _          _          -        200             Transport                                              YRls        -         -          -          -          15
Less landlord's share (at) 30%. of volume              kg          _        _                              60 0otal InTuts, Bananas                                               YRIs        -                    -         351        150
Less family consomption                                kg                                         -        300
Net volume                                             kg          -        -          -          -        900        TOTAL INPUTE                                                YRls       877    1,389       1,423      3,206      2,597
Net value (at) YRl 1/kg                                YRls/kg    -         -          -          -        900
TOTAL MARKETABLF OUTPUT                                     YRls    2,811    4,419       4,653    14,285    14,905         Net Cash Surplus                                            YRls    1,934    3,030        3,230    11,079    12,308
11  Alfalfa productIon vill  be consumed' oy oIve tocI{on      toe far.-
SOURCE: Mission's own computation based on assumpti.ns presented in IY.ble 5



ANNEX 1
Table 9
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 3b: Low Rainfall/Rainfed to Irrigated From Spring (Taiz Region)
1 Ha, Rented, No Draft Animals
Year
PRODUCTION PATTERN                    UNIT   PRE-PROJECT       1          2          3         4
Output
Sorghum
Area                            ha        1             -          -         -
Volume                           kg     900             -          -         -
Less production tax (Zakat)    kg        90             -          -         -          -
Less landlord's share at 25%
25% of volume                  kg      225             -          -         -
Family consumption (six
members)                       kg      912             -          -          -
Family grain deficit            kg    -327              -          -         -
Total value of family
grain deficit at YR1 1.2/kg           -392Y
Net value from Farm Model 3a:
Maize       YRI       -             2,100      2,148     990        150
Potatoes    YR1       -               759        825   4,455      4,455
Onions      YRI       -             1,560      1,680   8,280      8,280
Alfalfa     YR1       -             _          -         560      1,120
Bananas     YR1       -             -         -                     900
TOTAL MARKETABLE OUTPUT                 YR1   -392.1/          4,419      4,653  14,285    14,905
Inputs
Sorghum
Ploughing                        YR1    150             -          -         -          -
Seeds 50 kg/ha at YR1 1.2/kg   YR1       60             -          _         _
Fertilizer                      YR1       -             -          -         -
Bags YRls 20/ha                 YR1      20             -          -         -
Total Inputs, Sorghum                 YR1    230             -          -          -         _
From Farm Model 3a:
Maize       YRI       -             1,025     1,057      772        491
Potatoes    YRI       -               272        273   1,076      1,076
Onions      YR1       -                92         93     872        866
Alfalfa     YR1       -             -          -         141         14
Bananas     YR1       _             _         _          351        150
Cash expenses for annual repairs  YR1        -                50         50       50        50
TOTAL INPUTS                            YR1    230             17,39    T173   3,262         2,647
Net Cash Surplus                        -622             2,983      3,180  11,023    12,258
Note: Cash expenses for canal lining are borne by the project.
Labor for canal lining will be supplied by all farmers.
Farmer is obliged to seek additional income outside the farm
Source: Based on assumptions presented in Table 5



ANNEX 1
Table 1D
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RUJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 3c: Rainfed to Pump Irrigated (Taiz Region)
1 Ha, 100% Owned, No Draft Animals
Year
PRODUCTION PATiERN                            UNIT   PRE-PROJECT        1         2          3          4        5+6
Output
Sorghum
Area                                     ha       1             1          -          -         -         -
Volume                                   kg     900           900          -          -         -         -
Less production tax (Zakat)              kg      90            go          -          -         -         -
Less family consumption (six members)  kg       810           810          -          -         -         -
Net volume                               kg       0             0          -          -         -         -
Net value at YR1 1.2/kg                  YR1      0             0          -          -         -         -
Maize
Net value at RL1 1/kg with
landlord share added                    YR1      -             -     3,720      3,822      2,145       885
Potatoes
Net value at YR1 1.1/kg with             YR1      -             -      1,221     1,320      6,765    6,765
landlod share added
Onions
Net value at YRls 2/kg with              YRL       -            -      2,400     2,580    12,480   12,480
anLorl share added
Alfalfa
Net value at YRI 0.2/kg with
landlord share added                    YR1      -                        -         -        800    1,600
Bananas
Net value at YR1 1/kg with
landlord share added                    YRI      -             -          -          -         -    1,500
TOTAL MARKETABLE OUTPUT                         YR1       0             0     7,341      7,722    22,190   23,230
Inputs
Total 1 ha sorghum (from Model 1)          YR1    130           130          -         -          -         -
Total 1 ha irrigated (from Model 3a)       YR1      -             -     1,389      1,423      3,2Q(6    2,597
Capital Investment I
Well construction                        YR1      -         3,750          -         -          -         -
Pump                                     YR1      -         2,000          -         -          -         -
Engine                                   YR1      -         1,750          -         _          _         _
Piping and foundations                   YR1      -         1,250          -         -          -         -
Operation (8 months) and Maintenance-!
Fuel, oil, grease                        YRL      -         1,200     1,200      1,200      1,200    1,200
Operator                                 YR1      -           400        400       400        400      400
Repairs                                  YR1      -           125        125       125        125      125
Total Cash Outflow                              YR1    130        10 605      3 114     3,148      4,931    4,322
Net Cash Surplus                                YR1   -130       -104605      4,227       ,       17,259 5
j Four farmers share one pump; therefore 1/4 of total investment, operation and maintenance costs is charged
to each farmer. Pump life=10 years; engine life=6 years
From Year 5 onwards, output figures do not change.
Source: Based on assumptions presented in Table 5



ANNEX 2
Page 1
YEIEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Civil Works
A. Introduction
1.        The civil works component of the project consists of roads, vil-
lage water supplies, minor irrigation improvements, land protection works,
and buildings. The total direct cost of these works would be YRls 28.2 mil-
lion (US$6.26 million), or about 40% of the total project cost:
2.        The quantity and cost of the different works would be as follows:
Civil Works                    Quantity                   Total Cost
(YRls '000)   (US$ '000)
Roads                          184 km                12,620         2,804
Village Water Supply            90 schemes            8,010         1,780
Irrigation Improvements        600 ha                2,280            507
Land Protection                various works          1,570           350
Buildings                      6,850 m2              3,670            816
Total Cost                                     28.150          6,257
3.        The Project Unit's (SURDU) Engineering Section would survey, design
and supervise the works, using local contractors for construction. Further
details are given below.
B. Roads
Background
4.        Apart from the main roads linking Taiz with Sana'a, Hodeidah and
Aden, the road network is very poor. Many villages have no road connection
to the main roads and the existing roads and tracks are rough and hazardous.
Only basic earthwork has been carrried out and the lack of adequate drainage
is a common source of road deterioration. Roads are sometimes washed out
over a short distance due to the lack of culverts, making them inaccessible
for days at a time. Once the roads have been constructed, they receive
almost no maintenance, due to the Highway Authority's lack of funds for this
purpose.
5.        The Government's road improvement program has not been worked out
in detail and the Highway Authority has not established any priorities with



ANNEX 2
Page 2
he Provincial Governors of Ibb and Taiz. A road is simply constructed when
the necessary funds for that particular road are available. The funds may
come from the Development Boards (people's contribution and part of the Zakat),
WFP, the Government, or other sources.
6.        The Highway Authority is thus, in a way, working as a contractor
with very limited allocations from the State budget. There is no accurate
costing and road construction equipment is allowed to deteriorate without
appropriate allocations for replacement.
7.        Recently, however, the Government purchased new road construction
equipment from Saudi Arabia which will considerably increase the construction
capacity of the Highway Authority. At the same time, there is a growing
awareness of the necessity for improved cost analysis. Furthermore, the
Government expects to spend YRls 750,000 for maintaining 500 km of feeder
roads during FY 1974-75. It is therefore expected that, with continued as-
sistance from the IDA-financed Highway Technical Assistance Team, the High-
way Authority will improve its operations.
Subproject
8.        The primary objective of the project road construction program
would be to provide eased access for the project extension activities and
agricultural inputs as well as to facilitate transport of the expected agri-
cultural surplus from the project areas to the markets. The road program
would be designed to provide roads adequate to the agricultural potential
of different areas, which would give priority to the northern part of the
project areas.
9.        About 180 km of support roads would be constructed to either
single or double track standard depending on the expected traffic. According
to the present status of the road network, the supports roads would be either
newly constructed or upgraded in case of existing roads. A proposed support
road program and the standards are given in Table 1.
10.       Finally, it is important that the commom practice in Yemen for the
population to contribute to a road project either in cash or in kind by fur-
nishing labor is not destroyed by the project providing more liberal conditions
for its road program. Therefore participation of the pqpulation by contribut-
ing either free labor and/or building materials or by sharing in the construc-
tion cost will be condition of subproject implementation. The contribution
should be on average 30% of the local cost.
Cost Estimates
11.       The cost estimates for the support roads have been based on unit
rates obtained from the Highway Authority, the joint venture "Trapp-Heitkamp-
Tarmac" constructing the Sana'a-Taiz road, and two big local contractors
in Taiz.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
12.        In the absence of detailed road surveys, quantities and cost of
road construction have been worked out per km for typical construction in
flat, rolling and mountainous terrain. In flat terrain all earthworks are
assumed to be soft with the formation graded 50 cm above the general ground
level. In rolling terrain with assumed cross-falls of 5:1 and cut slopes
of 1:2, 15% of the excavation is assumed to be hand rippable. In mountainous
terrain with assumed cross-falls of 2:1, 15% of the excavation is assumed
to be rock, and 15% hand rippable. For the roads requiring upgrading, 75%
of the earthworks are assumed to be complete for double track roads and 50%
for single track roads. Cost estimates are given in Tables 1 and 2 and sum-
marized as follows:
Cost
Item                           km      Local        Foreign       Total    % Foreign
(-----------YRls '000-------)    Exchange
Flat Terrain                   45    1,137.6           758.4      1,896          40
Rolling Terrain               108    3,166.0         3,166.0       6,332         50
Mountainous Terrain            31    1,404.8         2,107.2      3,512          60
Administration                  -       704.0          176.0         880         20
Total                   184    6,412.4         6,207.6    12,620           49
The average cost of the support roads would thus be YRls 69 ,000/km.
Construction and Procurement
13.       The Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU) would be res-
ponsible for finalizing the road program, in close cooperation with the
Provincial Governors and the Highway Authority. SURDU's engineering Section
would survey, design and prepare specifications and tender documents for the
roads and would, if necessary, hire consultants to assist in the field surveys.
The program, specifications and tender documents would be submitted to IDA
for approval. Construction would then, depending on the circumstances, be
carried out:
-    following local competitive bidding, with the Highway Authority
being one of the bidders;
-    on the basis of a negotiated contract with the, Highway
Authority;
-    by using labor-intensive methods in cooperation with WFP and
the Development Boards.
The mix of methods to be chosen would depend on the geographical location
and technical complexity of the roads as well as on the availability and
skill of the local people; the final decision would rest with SURDU. Which-
ever method is used, SURDU would supervise the construction.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
14.       The construction of the support roads would be phased over four
years and would not start until the second year of the project in order to
allow an initial period for planning, surveying, and bidding procedures.
The phasing of construction and costs would then be as follows:
Years
Unit           Unit           1       2      3      4       5       6     Total
Construction   km
Cost           YRls '000    880  3,190   3,190 3,190   2,170        -    12,620
15.       The amount of YRls 12.62 million covers 100% of the base construction
cost, excluding physical and price contingencies.
Operation and Maintenance
16.       The maintenance of the support roads constructed under the project
would be financed by the project during the six-year implementation period
and thereafter by the Government.
17.       An annual allocation of YRls 1,800/km would be provided for mainte-
nance, starting with the yea* following construction. Maintenance would be
carried out by the Highway Authority on the basis of a negotiated contract,
controlled and supervised by SURDU.
C. Village Water Supply Systems
Background
18.       Safe drinking water is a scarce commodity in Yemen and only the
major cities and a few villages have piped water. People get their water
from open wells, springs or even open cisterns which are filled during the
rainy season. Water quality is poor and incidence of waterborne diseases is
high, as a result of nearly complete lack of hygienic consideration at the
water points.
19.       Improved water supply would decrease incidence of cholera, typhoid
and paratyphoid as well as malaria and bilharzia which are derived from the
open cisterns. Government policy aims to improve rural water supply but has
not yet established an effective program. The Rural Water Supply Department
of the Ministry of Public Works, with technical assistance from the World
Health Organization (WHO) and with access to free pumps, engines, and pipes
from the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), constructed some four village
water supply schemes in 1973.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
20.       Comprehensive groundwater studies have not been carried out in the
project area but the Department of Public Water Supply at Taiz has drilled a
number of tubewells and measured groundwater tables. Logs from 14 boreholes,
where drawdown and discharge have been recorded during test pumping, indicate
that well depth ranges from 13 m to 52 m, the groundwater table from 4 m to
28 m, and the tested yield from 1.5 1/s to 6.3 lls.
Subproject
21.       It is proposed to construct village water supply schemes throughout
the project area. To establish a reasonable number of schemes to be executed,
it is suggested that schemes be established in villages with more than 500
inhabitants. This would call for about. 90 village water supply schemes. A
group of minor villages would jointly-qualify for a scheme. In general, the
wells to be drilled should be as evenly distributed as possible over the
project area, with some emphasis on the drier areas south of Taiz.
22.       The subproject would provide two different methods of water supply.
One would be to pipe water from mountain springs to the villages by gravity
force. The springs would be protected from possible infestation by stone
masonry structures with separate outlets for those who might still want to
collect their water at the springs. The other method would be to drill tube-
wells and pump the water. Average drilling depth would be 33 m. Depending,
however, on the necessary waterhead, two sets of pumps and engines with dif-
ferent capacities would be provided.
23.       Under both methods, the water would be stored in cisterns in or near
the villages. From there it would be channelled to drinking water collection
points, animal watering troughs and laundry troughs. The size of the village
would determine the type and number of installations from the data available
from the 1973 field survey. The average village would have about 900 inhabi-
tants and 180 animals and need a 55 m3 cistern to cover one day's water re-
quirements (see Table 3). As in the case of road construction, the local
population would be expected to contribute on average 30% of the local cost
in form of free labor or/and local building materials or by sharing in the
construction cost.
24.       The proposed water works would improve water collection for about
100,000 people or 60% of the project area population. Ilowever, a more com-
prehensive program is needed in order to significantly improve health. Bil-
harzia in particular is widespread, affecting an estimated 60% of the popula-
tion in parts of the project area as compared to about 20% of the country as
a whole. The increased use of irrigation under the project is also likely
to increase bilharzia. In view of this, it is essential that the sanitary
aspects be considered in very close cooperation between the Yemen Ministry
of Health, WHO and IBRD. A study could help determine the priority criteria
for choosing the location for improved village water supply systems and outline
supplementary measures to substantially improve the health conditions in dif-
ferent areas. The project has US$80,000 allocated for support to this study
and for the provision of molluscicides against snails, drugs, and other medical
equipment. WHO in YAR has been approached and has shown interest.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Cost Estimates
25.       Cost estimates for the village installations and the two different
methods of water supply have been based on unit rates obtained from the
Department of Public Water Supply at Taiz, pump suppliers, local contractors
and the Highway Authority. Details are given in Table 3, and summarized as
follows:
Item                           Local      Foreign     Total    % Foreign Exchange
(-  ----- YRls T000---- -_)
Gravity Piping                 220.0        880.0   1,100.0             80
Tubewell Drilling              719.6      1,079.4   1,779.0             60
Pump, Engine                   196.1      1,764.9   1,961.0             90
Village Installation         2,520.0        630.0   3,150.0              _
Total Cost              3,655.7     4,354.3   8,010.0              54
Construction and Procurement
26.       SURDU would be responsible for selecting villages to be provided
with water supply schemes. A consulting hydrogeologist would help SURDU's
Engineering Section site the tubewells, following which the Engineering
Section would carry out the necessary surveys and designs. The construction
program comprising selection criteria and construction standards would be
submitted to IDA for approval prior to execution of the subproject. It is
essential that the wells not be sited on land owned by one person or family.
27.       Tubewells would be constructed under a negotiated contract with the
Department of Public Water Supply at Taiz and supervised by SURDU. The Minis-
try of Public Works has a rural water supply unit, but it lacks the capability
to perform this task. Other construction work would be done by local contrac-
tors. SURDU would prepare annually a detailed construction program including
cost estimates.
28.       Considering the importance of improved water supply for the rural
population, a rather tight schedule is proposed. After an initial survey
period of half a year, implementation would begin with an average period of
six months/scheme, construction of 90 schemes would require three years.
Phasing of construction and costs would be as follows:
Year
Item            Unit              1          2        3         4       5  Total
Schemes Started Number             18         36       36       -        -    90
Capital Cost    YRls '000       1,602      3,204    3,204       -       -  8,010



ANNEX 2
Page 7
29.       The amount of YRLs 8.01 million covers 100% of the subproject cost
excluding physical and financial contingencies. Some pumps, engines and
pipes may however be provided by UNICEF via the Ministry of Public Works.
Should this cooperation materialize, the subproject could be expanded to
cover additional schemes.
Operation and Maintenance
30.       The entire cost for operation and maintenance would be borne by the
villagers benefitting from a specific scheme. An undertaking by the village
authorities to do so would be required before any construction work starts.
The villagers will be required to (i) deposit upon the completion of the
installation of each system an advance amount corresponding to the estimated
operation and maintenance cost of said system for a period of four months,
and (ii) to pay, thereafter on a monthly basis the actual cost incurred in
the operation and maintenance of the system.
D. Irrigation Improvements
Background
31.       Minor irrigation is currently carried out by means of perennial
springs and stream flows over about 2,600 ha of the project area. Some
additional 400 ha are irrigated by pumping from wells. The distribution
canals are unlined and losses are quite high. Control structures are non-
existent and water management is poor. The upstream farmers have first
right to the water and take as much as they need.
32.       By reducing distribution losses through lining of canals and teach-
ing improved farm irrigation techniques, the overall irrigation efficiency
could be raised considerably, giving enough water to bring additional land
under irrigation. In practice, there is not always additional land available
to make use of the water saved through improvements to the system. However,
surveys carried out during 1973 indicate that there are at least 600 ha of
unirrigated land adjacent to existing schemes. No unused sources of water
for gravity irrigation exist.
Subproject
33.       Two different activities are proposed under the project.  One is
the lining of canals and improvement of irrigation techniques on existing
irrigated land, thus saving water for additional land to be brought under
irrigation. Assuming the present distribution and use of water to be 75% and
50%, respectively, the resulting efficiency is 38%; after an estimated-10%
deep percolation loss the overall system efficiency is assumed to be 34%. By
increasing distribution and farm efficiency it would be possible to save water
and increase the irrigated area by as much as 50% as indicated under cases
1,2 and 3 in Table 4. Farmers benefitting from the schemes would be expected
to participate in the cost of the improvement in the same manner as the ben-
eficiaries of the road construction subproject and village water supply
subproject.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
34.       The other activity would provide medium and long-term credit and
technical assistance to groups of farmers for construction of about 100 pro-
duction wells to bring some 400 ha new land under irrigation. Construction
of wells under the project would be subject to technical approval by SURDU's
hydrogeologist. Further information on the production wells is given in
Table 4. Further information on irrigation is given in Annex 1.
Cost Estimates
35.       The cost estimates are based on information received from local
contractors, pump suppliers and farmers. Details are given in Table 4. A
summary of the cost of improved irrigation canals is given below:
Cost
Area Affected            Local         'Foreign          Total     % Foreign
( -     ------  -YRls '000-- -----)     Exchange
600 ha                   1,824.0         456.0        2,280.0         20
The average investment cost would be YRls 3,800/additional ha of irrigated land.
Construction and Procurement
36.       Surveys and planning of irrigation improvement works would be
carried out by SURDU's Engineering Section, in close cooperation with the
irrigation extension agent. A detailed construction program with cost esti-
mates would be prepared annually.
37.       Should the surveys indicate that more than 600 ha could be brought
under command of existing schemes, additional construction could be under-
taken by diverting allocation from land protection works to irrigation im-
provements, the latter schemes having higher priority. Construction work
would be supervised by SURDU and be executed by contractors after local
tender or by farmers directed by SURDU. In the latter case the construc-
tion material would be supplied by SURDU.
38.       Irrigation improvement would be phased over three years starting
in Year 2 to allow SURDU to carry out surveys and prepare designs, and to
permit extension work to precede construction work. The phasing of
construction and cost would then be:
Year
Item            Unit        1        2        3       4         5        6  Total
Area irrigated  ha          -        200     200     200        -        -    600
Cost            YRls '000  -         760     760     760        -        -  2,280



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Operation and Maintenance
39.       Maintenance of these minor schemes would be carried out by the
farmers benefitting from the schemes. There is a practice of communal sharing
of maintenance cost for such irrigation schemes in Yemen; however, an under-
taking to carry out the annual maintenance would be required before a particular
scheme is started.
E. Land Protection
Background
40.       Parts of the project area are affected by various types of erosion.
Some wadi banks are being cut back due to scouring resulting from high flood
velocities and heavy bed loads. Thus, sections of the neighboring farmlands
are washed out and destroyed every year. Gullies form on steep slopes and
threaten terraces lower down. Sheet erosion caused by wind, uncontrolled
outwash from wadis or from degradation of terraces above banks can also be
observed. The 1973 survey indicated the following extent of erosion:
Wadi Deterioration             Gully Formation            Sheet Erosion
74 km                          6 km                      930 ha
Subproject
41.       The project would, on a pilot basis, undertake three different
types of land protection work: afforestation, gabion protection of wadi
banks, and drop structures of gabions across the wadis. Apart from the af-
forestation, where costs could be recovered from the proceeds of wood sold
on the open market, these works would be relatively expensive and would re-
quire additional financing. They would thus be constructed only where avail-
able lands, roads or houses are threatened by erosion.
42.       Afforestation is suggested for about 350 ha.  About 1,300 trees
per hectare would be planted.   Over a distance of 20 km a total of 2 km of
gabion spot protection would be constructed. The average protection would
consist of one apron under two gabions each having a 1 m2 cross section. The
drop structures would be constructed over a total length of 25 km with
drops/km, each consisting of a weir section having 1 m sill and 2 m wing
walls. For the average structure about 20 gabions would be required.
43.       Some the land protection works would be changed into irrigation
improvements, as outlined in Section D, should it be possible to bring more
than 600 ha additional land under command of existing irrigated schemes.
The reason for establishing this priority is that it is considerably cheaper
to gain 1 ha additional land through irrigation than to protect 1 ha from
erosion, even considering the total loss of production from erosion.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Cost Estimates
44.       The cost estimates for the land protection works are based on unit
rates given by FAO/UNDP at Taiz and the Highway Authority. Details are given
in Table 5 and are summarized as follows:
Cost
Type of Land Protection  Extent        Local   Foreign    Total        % Foreign
( -----YRls  000-----)         Exchange
Afforestation             350 ha        981.0   109.0    1,090.0          10
Wadi Bank Protection       20 km         20.0   252.0       280.0         90
Drop Structures            25 km         60.0   140.0       200.0         70
Total                            1,061.0   501.0    1,570.0          32
Construction and Procurement
45.       Construction work, which would mainly involve labor, would be given
to local contractors as negotiated tenders priced on a daily rate basis.
SURDU would supply all material and would also supervise the work and prepare
the annual work programs and cost estimates. For the wadi bank protection
the gabions would be provided under the project but the labor should be pro-
vided by those directly benefitting from the particular scheme.
46.       The land protection works would start during the second year and
be phased over four years as indicated below:
Years
Item          Unit            1        2       3        4       5        6  Total
Amount of Work %              -       10%      15%     25%      50%      -   100%
Cost           YRls '000      -      157     235      393     785        - 1,570
Operation and Maintenance
47.       No particular allocation for maintenance is provided under the
project, as the beneficiaries of the schemes would themselves provide it.
F. Buildings
Background
48.       Project implementation would require construction of staff houses,
offices and stores. Housing facilities in the villages are inadequate-for
the extension agents required. In the project centers of Ibb and Taiz, the
office accommodation required for the project staff is not available. Further-
more, housing in Ibb for the expatriate staff is non-existent or inadequate.
Although the local merchants are expected to adjust their stores to the in-
creased trade in fertilizer, there would be a need to store buffer stocks of
fertilizer in Ibb and Taiz to handle emergencies.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
Project Building Construction
49.       The project would provide the following facilities:
Houses for extension agents: Fifty houses, each 75 m2, single
storied, with a separate office and store, kitchen, bathroom
and two to three rooms.
Houses for extension supervisors:  Ten houses, each 100 mi2, single
storied, with the same facilities as the above houses but
somewhat more spacious. They would be constructed in the
major subcenters of the project area.
Houses for expatriate staff: Eight houses would be constructed
for rental by the expatriate staff based on Ibb. They would
be 100 m2, and without separate offices. For the expatriate
staff based in Taiz adequate housing is already available
for renting.
Offices: For the two project centers in Ibb and Taiz, two office
buildings would be constructed, which would become offices of
the Ministry of Agriculture upon project completion. The
main office building in Ibb would be 400 i2 and contain
about 17 offices and a 2100 m2 conference room.  The suboffice
ie Taiz would be 250 m and contain about 13 offices and a 50
m conference room. Furthermore two veterinary blocks would
be set up in Ibb and Taiz, each of them 75 m2.
Stores: The subproject would construct two buffer stores for
fertilizer in Ibb and Taiz in case the local distribution system
could not satisfy seasonal demand for fertilizer. The stores
would be 250 m2 each with a storage capacity of 450 ton fertil-
izer.
Cost Estimates
50.       The cost estimates for the buildings are based on quotations from
the Municipality of Taiz, the Development Board of Ibb,-and three local
contractors in the project area. Details are given in Table 5 and are summar-
ized as follows:
% Foreign
Buildings              Size         Local       Foreign       Total   Exchange
(D7)        (--------YRls '000--_         ------)
Houses                5,550        2,222.0        555.5      2,777.5       20%
Office and Stores    1,300           596.3        293.7        890.0       33%
Total            6,850       2,818.3        849.2       3,667.5       23%
The average cost for the buildings would be YRls 535/m2-



ANNEX 2
Page 12
Construction and Procurement
51.       SURDU's Engineering Section would design the buildings under the
project and would engage local architects for the office blocks if needed.
SURDU would arrange local competitive bidding and supervise the construction
work. At the village level local builders could be engaged for the cons-
truction of houses for the extension agents.
52.       The construction of the buildings would be phased over the first
three years of the project, giving the following disbursements:
Year
Item            Unit      1         2   -  3          4       5      6     Total
Houses-local      Number      10       20       20     -        -     -         60
Houses-
expatriate     Number       8         -       -      -       -      -          8
Offices          %          33        67        -     -        -     -        100
Stores           %           -        50       50     -       -      -        100
Cost         YRls '000  1,210    1,620       840      -       -      -     3,670
Operation and Maintenance
53.       An annual allocation for maintenance has been provided starting
after the fourth year. The allocation is 3% of total construction cost.
An annual provision is also made for running the offices (see Annex 3 for
details).



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Road Support Program
A.  Proposed Location and Standard of Roads                                                                                       Standard
TotalDobeTakSadr
Area          From            To              Standard      Flat  Rolling  Mountainous. LenPth                Single Track Standard tDuble Track Standard-
Sahoul      Sana'a road     Al Hadidi             B N          3        _                    3                 Width of carr9ageway 3.5 m                     Width of carriageway 6.0 m
Suq al sabt    Hobeish road          S N           --      7          --         7
Suq al sabt    .Sebel barat           S N                  5          --         5Exceptionally 3.0 m                                             Exceptionally 5.0 
Sana'a road     Hea.r                 S N                  --         33Base coarse 0.2 m                                                         Base coarse 0.2 m
Ibh         Ibb              Badan                D U--                 7        13         20
Udain road-    Al Abelan              S N          __       2         --         2                   peetirg places to be arranged with
Udain road     IMaran                 N N          --      5          --         5                 appropriate spacing
Udain road      Abar                  S N          --      --         6          6
Jiblah      Taiz road       Jiblah                D U          --       8         --         8                  Ruling grade 12%                              Ruling grade 12%
Sheban      Taiz road       Baradan               S N          __       2         __         2                 Miz horizontal curve radius 20 m               Min horizonts3 ourve radius 20 a
Nijad           Al Hadari             S N          --       --        4          4
Sayani      Taiz road       Sayani                S U           --      2         --          2
Taiz road       Disrakh               S U          --       1         __         1
Taiz road       Dimnah nachlan        S U          1        2         --         3
Dhisufal    Taiz road       T hisufal             D U           4       5         1          10
Dhisufal road   Safana                S N          1        --        --         1
Kaida       Taiz road       Wadi Sudan            S N           --      8         --          8
Naimat      Taiz road       Maklaf                S U           6       1         1           8
Taiz road       Shab Maleh            N U         12        --        2         14
Shab Maleh      Chabrah               S N          --       8         --         8
C.  Road Construction - Quantities and Costs
Ausseif era  Taiz           Wadi Maleh            S u           3      114        1          18
Terrain
Dabab       Turbah road     Wadi dabab            S U           3       --         --         3                                                     Flat          ______        Mountainous        Total
Misrakh     Turbah road      Misrakh              D U           --      5                     5                                                      YRls             IUs             YR1a
Misrakh road    Dimnah                S U           --      2         __          2                                               km  '000/k.    ka  'oo0/km        ba  I000/los    k     -a
Misrakh road    AhamabHobeish         S U_                  2         __          2                Item                          -km                                      ____- -k
Qadaha      Turba road      Qadaha                S U          12       6         __         18                 Single track nenw (SN)         4      52       53      64       13     136      70   5,3C53 6
Baracan     Turba road      Sahadan               S N           --     10          __        10                 Single track upgradinig (SU) 37        40      30       46      i4      86      71   3,26;4
Safia       Turba road      Wadi Assis            S N           --      6          --         6                 Double track upgradin.g (DU)   4       52      25      60       IJL    100      43   ,,>
45     10         31         184
Total        45              108               31           184    11,74C
Adaninistration  7.5%         880
L1   s - Single track      D = Double track                                                                                                                       Toa       i cost for 1814 om .. 2.6. 0
N = New              U = Upgrading



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DE  WPMERY PROJECT
Details of Road Constructin
Single Track Rnads                         Quantity/km  Unit  Rate    Cost/km           B. Double Track Roads                              Quantity/ki   Unit   Rate   Cost/km
Flat Terrain-New    stna truction                            (    YRls------)                Flat Terrain-New Construction                                   (---Ys------
Earthworks 1000 x 4.5 x 0.5          =      2,250      m3     10       22,500                Earth'Drks 1000 x 7.0 x 0.5                    3,5500     m32    10      35,000
Formation grading 100 x 3.5                 3,500      m2      1.5      5,250                Formation grading 1000 x 6.0          =        6,000      m        1.5    9,000
Base coarse 1000 x 3.5 x 0.2         =         700     m3     15       10,500                Base coarse 1000 x 6.0 x 0.2          =        1,200      m3      15     18,000
Drainage excavation 2 x 1000 x 0.35            700     m3     10        7,000                Drainage excavation 2 x 1000 x 0.35 =            700      a3      10      7,000
Culverts 2 x66 m                               12      m     500        6.ooo                Culverts 2 x99 m                                  18      m     50       9,000
Total... 5T0                                                                                    Total...78,000
Flat Terrain-ts rading                                                                       F. lat Terrain yegading
Earthworks completed to 50%                                          - 11,250                Earthworks completed to 75%                                              26,250
Total ...140,000                                                                                Total...751,750
Rolling Terrain-New Construction                                                             Rolling Terrain-New Construction
Earthworks - soft 1000 x 2.3         =      2,300      m3     11       25,300                Earthworks - soft 1000 x 4.25         *        4,250      m3      11     46,750
hand rippable 1000 x 0.4        =        400      m3     20        8,goo                     hand rippable 1000 x 0.75        =750                m3      20     15,000
Formation grading 1000 x 3.25        =      3,250      m2      1.5      4,875                Formation grading 1000 x 5.5           =       5,500      m2       1.5    8,250
Base coarse 100 x 3.25 x 0.2         =         650     m3      15       9,750                 Base coarse 1000 x 5.5 x 0.2                  1,100       m3     15      16,500
Drainage excavation 1000 x 0.35      e         350     m3     20        7,000                Drainage excavation 1000 x 0.35        =         350       m3     20       7,000
Culverts  3 x 6 m                               18     m     500        9.000                Culverts  3 x 8 m                                 24      m      500     12.000
Total ... 63,925                                                                               Total ....105,'500
Rollin& Tarrain-ftrading                                                                        . Rollnm Terrain-5&radinxi
Barthworks completed to 50%                                          - 16 650                 Earthuorks completed to 75%                                           - 46 313
Total       47,275                                                                             Total    59,1B 7
Mountainous Terrain-New Construction                    3                                     N1 ountainous Te.rrain-EeK Construction
Earthworks - soft'1000 x 3.0         =       3,000     m      12       36,000                 Earthworks - soft 1000 x 6,5          =       6,500       m3     12      78,000
hand rippable 1000 x 1.0        =       1,000     m3     20       20,000                     hand rippable 1000 x 2.0                  2,000       m3     20      40,000
rock 1000 x 1.0                        1,000      m3     45       45,000                     rock 1000 x 2.0                   =       2,000       m3     45      90,000
Formation grading 1000 x 3.0         =       3,000     m2       1.5     4,500                 Formation grading 1000 x 5.0                  5,000       m2      1.5    7,500
Base coarse 1000 x 3.0 x 0.2         =         600     m3     15        9,000                 Base coarse 1000 x 5.0 x 0.2          =        1,000      m3      15     15,000
Drainage excavation 1000 x 0.25       =        250     m3      45      11,250                 Drainage excavation 1000 x 0.25                  250      m3      45     1,250
Culverts 4 x 5 m                                20     m     500       10000                  Culverts h  x 7 m                                 28      m     5C00     1" 000
Total ... 135 750                                                                                Total. 25Tr50 g
Mountainous T errain-qupradin&                                                                Mountainous Terrain-DF&radin&                                                     fl
Earthworks completed to 50%                                          - 50  0                 Earthworks completed to 75%                                           -156 000
Total .... 65,250                                       lotov'7
Source:  Highway Authority, Trapp-Heitkamp-Tarmac, two local contractors in Tais



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLAKDS RURnAD     LO. NT PDROJNCT
A. Su~nary Cost of Villame Water Supply Scheges
Gravity Piping      PumpIng 30am   EPanpLng 60m
Water Supply                   ~~~55,000          52,000            $8,000
Village Installation                      55'             35,00l            355000
Cost per Scheme                           90,000             87,000            93,000
Assumed Number                                 20                $0                20
Cost per Alternative                   1,800,000         IJ,350,000         1,860,000
Total Cost for  0vilewater s':pl  shmsTl   ,300.
Item                   1 7.  ' B.  Water Supply                                                                                C.  Village Installation
EIgf  as  _                               asic assumptions:
Stone nseonry protection of spring 10  2 @ YR1s 300               3,000                                      Population          900
Piping (average)                  2,000 m  @ YIRs 25             .o, O                                      Draft anmials       180
Water consumption 50 1/day/person, 30 1/day/animal
Miane'lls >eous                                               2,000                                    Water required 55 m3/day
Total                                                55 00                                      Cistern (internal): diameter 6m; height, 2m
Tubem-ll 3(1pixmeter 8" slotted etaol el  asin                                                        tm                                    Quantity        Unit        Rate
Esta',0i .Plclent of drilling                                     C,5cc)                              Cistern
Subsistence for crew YRls 200 /day                                2,800                                    Gravel filling                                     3
Supervision                                                                                                R.C. floor                           8            mm3         300       5,400
450                         ~~~~~~Plastered masonry, wall       35             m3          200       7,000
Well drilling average 33 m   @ YRls  633                         20,900                                     R.C. roof                           B            m3           700      5,600
Well drilling average                ________                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plumnbing                                             1,500
Sub-total Tubewell Driljing Average                  25,650                               Laundry Troughs                            3          No.
30 m Head   60O m H                                Plastered masonry slabs          3 x 4,0         m3           200      2,400
-3 -I0k1LL&                                        Plastered masonry walls          3x1,6            3           200         9S0
Pump and 13 BP engine                                      13,3CO                                           Piping .                             3           No.
'                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Animal watering Trougho         3           No.
Pump and 16 BP engine                                                   19,200                                                                                 3
PuJp and 16 HP engine  19,200    Plastered masonry slabs           3 x 3.5        Ma           200       2,100
2umphouse 10 m  Q 300 rials                                                                                 Plastered masonry walls          3x 2.0                       200       1,200
Pumphouse 10 a  N 300 rials                 ~~~~~~3,000   3,000                              Piping                              30            M            25        1750
Rising main 400 m @ 25 rials                               10,000       10,000                        Drainage
Sub-total                                      26,300       32,200                              Excavation for ditches              20            m3           10         200
Sub-total Tubewell Drilling Average (Above)                 25,650                              Gravel                             150            m3            15      2,250
Total Cost                                     21,950       57 750                         Miscellaneous                                                                4.5oo
Total Village Installation                                            33-815
So-rce:  Department of Po'-lic Water Surely at  -aiz, Dume s-nnliers, local contractors a,d t]-e  ighway Au,thority.



YEBE] ARAB REPUBLIC
9QTTrrRN IPLATMg RITRAT ThrVFTnPVESp%T PROCT
Irrigation  lmp-rovememt Schemes
A.   Irrigation IDerovement                                                                                   C.   Production Wells
Dependine on the depth of the aquifer, handdug or drilled wells would
Heading                             Present       Case 1      Case 2       Case 3
be constructed, the cost ranging  from YRis 5,000 to YRIs 25,000.
Dlistribution Efficiency              75%         90%          75%          90%
Farm Efficiency                       50%         50%          65%          65%                                     The average installation for an irrigated area or h ha would require the
fol3owing tnvestments.                        Installation
Reaulting Efficiency                  38%         45%          48%          59g                                                                                      Cost
Deep Percolation Losses              10%         10%          10%          10%                                                      Ite                             YR1s
Well, Handdug or Drilled:       15,000
System Efficiency                     34%         41%          44%          53%                                                       Pump                             8,000
Possible Increase in                   0          20%          30%          56%                                                       Engine                           7,000
Irrigable  and                                                                                                                       Foundation and piping            5,000
Total Cost                 35,000
During the 20 year lifetime of the project, it is anticipated that the
D.   Costs of Irrigetion Imorovements
ergine would have to be replaced twice and the pump once.
Area irrigated before improvement:  13 ha                                                                       Irrigation water requirement, calculated by the Blaney-Criddle method
For cost estimates a typical scheme is considered which brings another 7 ha                                    using modified crop factors, amounts to peak monthly values of about
lend (54%) under irrigation.                                                                                    2100 m3/ha.  This corresponds to a pumping rate of 3.2 1/sec/ha,
Ares irrigated after improvement:  20 he                                                                        during 6 hours per day with regular stops to let the well recharge.
With an assumed 200 m wide irrigated strip, a 1,000 m long improved irrigation
canal lined with 10 cm rubble masonry would be needed.  The necessary exca-                                     The yield would be 10-15 1/s.
vation for the canal is assumed to be completed to 50% for the existing 13 ha
or 650 m.  The remaining 350 m will need full excavation or 0.24 m3/m.  Offtakes                                  The estimated annual operation and maintenance costs are indicated
should be provided every 50 m or 1 offtake/ha.                                                                  b 0 - M
Cost
Item                                                    YRls
Item                     Quantity      Unit     Rate      Cost 
Fuel, Oil and Grease    8 months CYRls 600               4,800            r
ibc05vation                 160         d3       -6  9Yl8~ 50
Operator                 8 months (iYNls 200             1,600
10 cm Rubble Masonry        110         m3       175      19,250
Repairs                                                    500
4Lt Pipe Offtakeqt            20       No.        50       1,000
Headworks                                                 Ja4w                                                                  Total Annual C ost              6,900
Total                                                26,60C
Total cost YRis 3,800'additional irrigated ha.
Total cost for 600 ha additional irrigated area = YRls  2,280,000
Source:   Local contractors, pump suppliers and farmers.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Protection Works
A. Land Protection                                                       B.  Quantity and Cost of Buildings
Tree Planting         Quantity/ha       Rate       Cost/ha                  Item                              No.    Size    Rate         Cost
(---YRIs----                                                                   ()    - - - YRls - - -)
Trees              1,300             1        1,300
Labor                360 man-days   5         1,800                   Houses for Extension Agents        50      75     450      1,687,500
Total Cost                                3,100                    Houses for Extension Super-
Total Cost               3,100                     ~~~~~~~~~~visors                 10     100     450        450,000
Total area to be planted  350 ha                                       House  btor Expatriates
Total cost YRls 1,090,000                                                in
Stores for Fertilizer              2     250     500        250,000
Wadi Bank Protection  Quantitv/m        Rate       Cost/m                   Main Office                         1     400     800       320,000
- - - YRls - - - -                  Sub-office                         1     250     800        200,000
Gabions                2           50           100                    Office for Veterinary Services    2       75      800       120.000
Apron                  1            40           40
Labor and stones contributed by farmers                                           Total                                          3,667,500
Total Cost                                  140
Total Housing Cost: Rl 3,670,000
Length to be protected 2 km                                            Note:  The comparatively low unit prices for the extension houses
Total Cost      YRls 280,000
and the stores depend on local construction in rural areas
Drop_Structures       Quantity/Drop    Rate        Cost/Drop                       and low standard, respectively.  The cost of the houses for   \n M
Drop Structures       Quantity/Drop         -      Cost/Drop-the expatriate staff in Ibb will be recovered by renting
_ _ - YRls - - - -
Gabions               20           200        4,000                           them.
Length to be provided with drop structures 25 km.
Total cost with two drops per km       YRIs 200,000
Total cost for land protection         YRls 1,570,000



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
YRls Thousand                             US$ Thousand                     Foreign  Exchange
Project Components 
Project   Co onents ~Local                     Foreign         Total        Local         Foreign        Total
Agricultural Credit
For incremental fertilizer cost(CIF.basis)          - 320        6,300           6,620           7G         1,400          1,470                95
For on-farm investment(medium-and-long-term)       1,530         3,600           5,130         340            800          1,140                 7
Subtotal                                           1,850         9,900         11,750           410         2,200          2,610                81
Rural Works
Village water supply systems                       3,690         4,320           8,010          820           960          1,780                 54
Feeder roads                                       6,300         6,300          12,600        1,400         1,400          2,800                 50
Irrigation & land protection                       2,960           goo           3,860          66o           200             860               23
Subtotal                                          12,950        11,520          24,470        2,880         2,560           5,440                47
Project Facilities & Equipment
Staff housing & offices                            2,750           920           3,670          620           200             820                24
Vehicles & equipment                                  440        3,900           4,340           100          860             960                go
Operation & maintenance                            1,190        1,790           2,980           250          410             660                62
Subtota.                                            4,380        6,610          10,990           970                        2,440                60
Technical Services
Technical assistance                                1,350       12,380          13,730           300        2,750           3,050                90
National staff                                      8,540         -              8,540         190           -              1,900                 0
Subtotal                                            9,890       12,380          22,270        2,200         2,750           4,950                56
Miscellaneous Costs                                      180        1,400           1,580            40          310             350                89
Total Base Cost                                       29,250       41810           71,060         6,500        9,290          15,790                59
2/
Contingencies'
Physical (7.7%)                                     2,570        2,920           5,490           570          650           1,220                53
Price    (47%)                                     12,560       15,300          27,860         2,790        3,400           6,190                55
Subtotal                                           15,130       18,220          33,35'         3,360        4,050           7,410                54
TOTAL COSTS                                           43            034,380                       9,860                       23,200                58
1/ Including road maintenance
2/  Contingencies were calculated as follows- Physical contingencies'  Village water supply system, beeder roads, rrigation improveaents,Nodium-and-long-term
credit provisions for wells: 20% Staff housing and office buildinga 5%
Price contingencies: Village water supply systems (equipment and materials),    Project unit facilities (vehicles and equipment) Pumps and engines:
1974 7%, 1975 11%,    1976-80  7.5%
Feeder roads, staff housing and offices, 7rilling of wells. 1hrigation improvements- 1974  9%,  1975  15%,    1976-80  12%
National staff salaries, operations and maintenance: lOllyear - Technical assistance, 'ellowships and other studies:  8%/ year



ANMEX 3
Table 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHfERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELMOP'M'MT PROJECT
Phasing Of Costs for Agricultural Credit Rural Works and Staff Housing
_ __      YEA___ __
Y E A R
1    2     3                         T  Total
Project Component                   (---             -- $ '000--------)
Agricultural Credit
For incremental fertilizer cost-   44   134   168   263   362   457   1,468
For on-farm investment2'              -   239   368   366   368   496    L839
Subtotal                       44   373   556   651   730   953   3,307
Rural Works
Viillage water supply systems      356   712   712                        1,780
Feeder roads                       195   710   710   710   480            2,605
Irrigation and land protection      -    215   215   215   215              b60
Subtotal                      551 1,637 1,637   925   695           5,445
Staff Housing and Offices             200   434   180                         614
1/ Incremental CIF cost of the fertilizer financed by credit.
2/ Includes subborrower contribution (20%) and financing from loan repayments
(20%). Price and physical contingencies included.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
YDEN ARAB REIUBIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPWZT_B1RW1E
Cost of Eauipment and Vehicles
YEAR                       Total
1tems   2     3       4              6
Items                            7 ---------------YRis '000------------- -
Office Equipment                      170                                           170
Radio Communications Equipment         45                                             45
Field Staff Equipment                  10     10      40     30      30     -       120
Surveying Equipment                    45                                            45
Veterinary Equipment                   52                                             52
Vehicles: A
Lorries a YRIs 63,000               63             63     63             63      252
Staff vehicles @ YRls 22,500       585            270    585            270    1,710
Mini-buses @ YRls 27,000            54             54     54             54      216
Motorcycles a YRls 4,500           131    202    202    333    342    202    1,412
Mobile audiovisual Units            80             80     80             80      320
Total Cost (YRls '000)   1.235    212    709  LL5    372    669 4. 342
Total Cost (Us$ '000)         274     47                          1 X9      965
1 Three-year life assumption.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
E;MEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVEMLPMENT PROJECT
Operation and )bintenance CostB
YEAR                     Total
1     2     3          4 -6           T
Items                                          (---------YRls  000--------------)
Staff Vehicles                                      94    94   137   137   137   137       736
@ 8% of cost + YFls 1,800 vehicle-year opn.
Mini-buses                                          12    12    24    24    24    24       120
@ 8% cost + YRls 3,870 vehicle-year opn.
Motorcycles                                         23    60    97   133   158   158       629
@ 8% of cost + YRls 45o vehicle-year opn.
Lorries                                             10    10    20    20    20    20       100
* 8% of cost + YR1s 5,160 vehicle-year opn.
Audiovisual UTnits                                  10    10    21    21    21    21       104
o 8% of cost + YRls 4,000 vehicle-year opn.
Offices and Staff Houses                            -      -     -     -    100   100      200
 3% of cost
Feeder Roads                                        -      -     79   158   237   316      790
0 2.5% of cost
Other Project Unit Equipment                        -     16    17    19    20    22        94
@ 5% of cost
Office Operations and Supplies                      35    35    35    35    35    35       210
Total Cost (YR1s '000)                                              - 1O   a  V2   2  W8
Total Cost (us$ '000)                                 =96   121   167   I         63



YEME ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Costs                    YEAR                       Total
Cost per Man-Year       1       2     ._       L     .  6_
Project Staff                                     -------------------------------US$  '000------ ---)
Project Manager                                              40               40      40     40      40     40      40      240
Administrative & Finance Officer                             35               35      35     35      35     35      35      210
Credit Officer                                               35               35     35      35     35      35     35       210
Senior Experts
Extension Agronomist-Ibb                                     35               35      35     35      35     35      35      210
Extension Agronomist-Taiz                                    35               35      35     35      35                     140
Extension Agronomist-Plant Protection                        35               35      35                                      70
Veterinarian                                                 35               35      35                                     70
Livestock Expert                                             35                              35      35     35              105
Civil Engineer                                               35               35      35     35      35     35              175
Associate Eperts
Extension Agronomist-Ibb                                     25               25      25     25      25     25      25      150
Extension Agronomist-Taiz                                    25               25      25     25      25     25      25      150
Extension Agronomist-Water Yanagement                        25               25      25     25      25     25      25      150
Horticulturist                                               25               25      25     25      25     25      25      150
Livestock Expert                                             25                              25      25     25      25       100
Veterinarian                                                 25                       25     25      25     25      25       125
Civil Engineer - Roads & Houses                              25               25      25     25      25     25              125
Civil Engineer - Water Supply and Production Wells           25               25      25     25      25     25      25      150
Civil Engineer - Irrigation & Land Protection                25               25      25     25      25                     100
Maintenance Supervisor                                       25               25      25     25      25      25     25       150
Consultants /1
Rural Sociologist - Farmer Organization                      40               13      13     13      13     13      13        78
Marketing/Agro-Industries Expert                             40                       13     13      13     13      13        65  z
Hydro-Geologist                                              40               19      10     10      10     10                59 a I
Seed Potato  Specialist                                      40                       22      7       7                       36 X 
Agricultural Economist                                       40                       10             10             13        33 
Total                                                                   517    578      L3       3    476    384
Li US$ 3,000/month + US$4,000 fixed component for travel and benefits.



ANNEX 3
Table 6
Y1ENEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTBE1 UPIANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Developmatnt   aSalar  Costsi/
YEAR                            nJu -
1       2                               6
Staff -_-(                             ------------------YR1s 000------- ---)
Co-Manager                             22      22      22       22      22      22       132
Administrative Officer                 12      12      12       12      12      12        72
Senior Credit Officer                  12      12      12       12      12      12        72
Field Credit Officers  YRPs 9,600      L9.2   19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    115.2
Senior Extension Officers @ YR.a 9,600 28.8   28.8   38.4    38.4   38.4   38.4          211.2
Project Accountant                      9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6     9.6     9.6      57.6
Senior Engineers @ YRls 22,000          4      44      44       44      44      44       264
Junior Engineers @ YRls 18,000         54      54       54      54      54      54       324
Technicians @ YRls 8,000               48      48       48      48      48      48       288
Draftsmen @ YRls 8,000                 24      24       24      24      24      24       144
Language Instructor                    12      12      12      12       -       -         48
Interpreters @ YREs 9,600              28.8    28.8    28.8    28.8    28.8    28.8      172.8
Warehouse Managers @ YRls 8,000        16      16      16       16      16      16        96
Warehouse Helper. @ TiRs 2,500          5       5        5       5       5       5        30
Maintenance Supervisors @ YEls 9,600  19.2   19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2        115.2
Mechanics @ YRls 7,000                 14      14      14       14      14      14        84
Clerks/Secretaries @ YRis 5,000        35      35      35       35      35      35       210
Veterinary Assistants 9 YRls 5,000     20      30       40      40      50      50       230
Drivers ') YRis 4,200                  92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4      554.4
Janitors/Messengers  YRls 2,500       15      15      15      15       15      15        90
Total Cost (YTls '000)        531.0   1       586.6                            3,310.4
-       -       I _-     6.   55-.    -5.         LO.
Total Cost (US$ '000)         118     120     125     12       124     124       736
/1  Excluding field extenason supervisors and extenaion agents



ANNEX 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC          Table 7
SCUTHERN UPAI.iL6 WURAL DEVELOPM1T PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Requirements and Salary Costs
Gov't
Extension Requirements                    Y E A R                   Total  Share
0    1    2    3     4    '5        6       -
No. of Trainees            30   60   60   60      42     -      -
S YRls 3,600            108  216  216  216    151             -     907    756
No. of Agents              -    27   67  108    149    176    176
S YRls. 5,400            -   146  362  583    805    950    950  3,796  2,109
No. of Supervisors         -     2    7   11      15     19     19
@ YRls. 7,200            -    14   50   79    108    137    137    525    289
Total COst (YRls '000)   108  376  628  878  1.064  1.087  1.087  5.228  3,15S
Total Cost (US$ '000)      2    83  1_40  1      236    242    242  1,162    701
Salary AssumDtions   YRls/month
Extension Trainees       250       (base + 25% overtime)
,50      (project incentive pay)
300
Extension Agents         250       (base + 25% overtime)
200       (project incentive pay)
005
Supervisors             330        (base + 25% overtime)
270       (project incentive pay)
600
21 Base + 25% overtime pay.
June 5, 1974



ANNEX 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHEN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Miscellaneous Costs
YEAR                   Total
i2       3     46
(------------------_US$  000 ----  
Fellowships @ US$6,000                   -    30    30    30    30      -      i20
Other Studies A                          -      -     -    50    100    -      150
(El Gened, Eryan, Wadi Bana & Others)
Rural Health /2                          -    20    30    30      _     -      80
Studies, molluscicides,                    -             -
facilities & equipment
Total                            -    50    60    110   130    -       350
/1 For project preparation extending the present project concept.
/2 In support of WHO feasibility study.



DSKN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTERN UPLANDS RuRAL DEVE4WMNT PROJECT
ProJect Fancin
Abu
Dhabi    Gov't of     Sibborrowersl In-kind contribution  Financing fro
1DA    Lad        !AR        Contribution  of Beneficiaries       Debt RoA.yment  Total
Auaicultural Credit
For increwntal fertilizer iputs           735      735                                                                      i,47o
For on-faro invastaents                   550      550                     370                                  370         484
Rural, Works
Village water supply system             1,190   1,190                                          40D                           2,780
Feeder roads                            2,200   2,200                                          770                           5,170
Irrigation and land protection            520      520                                         220                           1,260
ProJect Facilities and Eoulpment
Staff houmiag and offices                 570      570                                                                       1,1140
Vehicles and Eipmnt                       655      655                                                                       1,310
Operation and mainteance                  505      505                                                                       1,010
Technical Services
Technical assistance                    1,990   1,990                                                                        3,980
Natiomal staff                            845      845    1,070M                                                             2,760
Fellowships and Other Studies            _          240                                          - _               _             480
TOTAL                              10,000      0       1-070                             1.O                 30         23.200
j/ Base salary and 25% olvertine pay for extension agents/field supervisors plus price
contingency allowance of US$370,000 for national staff salaries.
June 5, 19714



ANIIEX 3
Table 10
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
US$ Mlllion
Accumulative           Outstanding
IDA Fiscal Year         Disbursements       Disbursements           Balance at
and Quarter             During Quarter       At End of Quarter      End of Quarter
1976
March  31                   0.15                   0.15                 9.85
June   30                   0.25                   0.40                 9.60
Sept.  30                   0.25                   0.65                 9.35
Dec.   31                   0.35                   1.00                 9.00
March  31                   0.45                   1.45                 8.55
June   30                   0.50                   1.95                 8.05
1978
Sept.  30                   0.50                   2.45                 7.55
Dec.   31                   0.60                   3.05                 6.95
March  31                   0.60                   3.65                 6.35
June   30                   0.55                   4.20                 5.80
1979
Sept.  30                   0.55                   4.75                 5.25
Dec.   31                   0.50                   5.25                 4.75
March  31                   0.50                   5.75                 4.25
June   30                   0.50                   6.25                 3.75
1980
Sept.  30                   0.45                   6.70                 3.30
Dec.   31                   0.45                   7.15                 2.85
March  31                   0.45                   7.60                 2.40
June   30                   0 45                   8.05                 1.95
1981
Sept.  30                   o.4O                   8.45                 1.55
Dec.   31                   0.40                   8.85                 1.15
March  31                   0.40                   9.25                 0.75
June   30                   0.40                   9.65                 0.35
1982
Sept.  30                   0.35                  10.00                 0.00



ANNEX 4
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation and Management
The Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
1.        The project would be implemented by the Southern Uplands Rural
Development Unit (SURDU), to be set up under the Ministry of Agriculture, in
accordance with the implementation schedule shown in Chart 1. After the six-
year project implementation period, SURDU would become the regional office
of the Ministry of Agriculture. During this six-year period, SURDU would be
responsible for the following:
(a) organization and management of an agricultural extension
service covering the project area, composed of about 200
extension agents and field supervisors;
(b) distribution of agricultural inputs and organization of a
supporting credit scheme in coordination with the Agricultural
Credit Fund (ACF);
(c) survey, design and supervision of construction of feeder roads,
village water supply systems, irrigation canal lining, land
protection schemes, office buildings and staff housing, as
well as provision of technical support to ACF for loans relating
to production wells, orchards and the like;
(d) initiation and supervision of supplementary studies that would
extend the project concept beyond the present area, and coor-
dination with other bilateral and multilateral aid agencies
whenever necessary.
2.        SURDU would have an advisory committee chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture or by his duly designated representative, with membership compris-
ing senior officials representing the Central Planning qrganization and the
Ministry of Finance, the SURDU manager, and the director of the UNDP/FAO
Project in Taiz (CARS) or their duly designated representatives.
Expatriate Staff
3.        Due to a shortage of qualified nationals, SURDU would be managed
primarily by expatriate experts during the six-year implementation period.
At the same time, local counterparts would be hired and trained to take over
operations thereafter (see Chart 2 attached). . Expatriates would be judged



ANNEX 4
Page 2
both on the basis of performance in their technical and management responsi-
bilities and on their success in training and delegating responsibility to
national counterparts and other staff. It is estimated that nine senior
experts (including the project manager), ten associates and five consultants
would be required to implement the project. Table 5 in annex 3 shows the
time period over which they would be required, as well as the costs associated
with technical assistance ($3.0 million).
4.        Probable sources for associates are the FAO Associates Program, in
which case they would be provided by participating governments at virtually-
no expense to the project; or the International Voluntary Service, which has
already expressed its interest in the project. The cost estimates for ex-
patriate staff have been based on the assumption that they will all be hired
on the open market. Capability and not cost should then be the overriding
concern in deciding where to obtain the necessary staff, including the asso-
ciates. Since institution building is an important aspect of the project,
expatriate staff hired should be both willing and able to train their counter-
parts to take over SURDU when they leave.
National Staff
5.        A total of 270 nationals would be hired, about 20 of them at the
supervisory level and above (excluding field extension supervisors). A
Director General of the Ministry of Agriculture for Ibb and Taiz would be
the co-manager of SURDU, and the Ministry's provincial officers for Ibb and
Taiz would be the project's senior extension officers for these provinces.
Details are shown in Chart 2 attached and in tables 6 and 7 in annex 3.
Agricultural Research and Training
6.        Agricultural research for the project, including preliminary train-
ing of extension agents, would be undertaken by the UNDP/FAO project in Taiz,
which was operational by July 1,' 1974. About 60 extension agents would be
trained for the project each year until the IDA Agricultural Education Project
in Ibb starts turning out graduates, or until Year 4 of the project, which-
ever comes first.
Agricultural Extension
7.        Agricultural extension is the principal function to be performed
under the project. There would be an extension office for Ibb and another
one for Taiz. Each of these offices would be under a senior extension agro-
nomist who would report directly to the project manager. Under eich extension
agronomist, there would be an associate extension agronomist and other asso-
ciates in the agricultural function who together with the field extension su-
pervisors, would help supervise the extension agents. The field supervisors
and most of the extension agents would be provided with housing which would
also serve as field offices, for the project. As previously mentioned, the
counterpart for the extension agronomists would be the provincial officers of
the Ministry of Agriculture for Ibb and Taiz.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        To provide subject matter support to the extension service and to
help with the on-the-job training of extension agents, SURDU would be provided
with a plant protection expert, a livestock expert and a veterinarian.
Agricultural Credit and Input Distribution
9.        Agricultural credit under the project would be channeled through
ACF. The costs associated with an expatriate credit officer who would be the
ACF manager for the project area and for three nationals - a senior credit
officer and two field officers - have been included in the costs of the
project. Input distribution would be handled by the administrative and finance
officer. Two warehouse managers have been included among the national staff
to manage the Ibb and Taiz warehouses. Two lorries have also been included
in the list of project vehicles to transport at least part of the fertilizer
from Hodeida to the warehouses and merchants in the project area.
Rural Works
10.       Four expatriates - a senior civil engineer and three associates -
would be provided for SURDU to survey, design and supervise rural works and
building construction for the project. They would have as their counterparts
two senior civil engineers and three cadet engineers. The engineers are also
-expected to provide technical advice to ACF, particularly regarding production
wells to be drilled in the project area.
Other Project Services
11.       Other project services would be provided under the expatriate admi-
nistrative and finance officer. An expatriate associate has also been provided
for vehicle maintenance. National counterparts for these officers have been
provided. A language instructor has also been included to increase the effec-
tiveness of non-Arabic speaking staff.
Consultants
12.       To conduct a groundwater study for the project, a hydrogeologist
would be provided for five months during the first year and two months per
year thereafter for the next four years (see implementation schedule, Chart 1).
A rural sociologist/farmer organization expert would be hired for three months
each year from Year 1 to Year 5, to look at the land tenure situation and make
proposals relating to possible formation of cooperatives and other organiza-
tions. A seed potato specialist would be provided because of the importance
of potatoes in the proposed cropping scheme for the project. An agricultural
economist would be provided, primarily to monitor project results, specifically
to determine project benefits and beneficiaries.
Other Studies
13.       In addition to the studies to be conducted by consultants within the
context of the project, a consulting firm would be hired to carry out studies
relating to the extension of the project concept to places adjacent to the



ANNEX 4
Page 4
project area such as Wadi Bana, El Gened and Eryan. A sum of US$80,000 would
also be provided to finance drugs, molluscicides and equipment that would
be needed to implement the recommendations of the WHO rural health study in
the project area. Pilot schemes for potatoes, onions and coffee would be
undertaken with the guidance of the project's marketing/agro-industries con-
sultant. Finally, 20 fellowships have been provided for the national staff
to enable them to obtain not only on-the-job training under the project, but
some graduate and professional school training as well.
Key Indicators
14.       Key project indicators that have to be periodically reported are
given in Table 1.



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Expatriate Staff and Consultants
The terms of reference for each of the expatriate staff and con-
sultants follow. It must be emphasized that each of the expatriate experts
and associates would be held fully responsible for the training of his/her
counterpart. The senior experts and associates would be required to have a
good working knowledge of English. Knowledge of Arabic is desirable but for
those experts not familiar with the language, the commitment to learn it is
essential. Part a) of each expert's terms of reference details qualifications,
while part b) specifies the functions to be performed.
The Senior Experts
1.   The Project Manager
(a) University degree in business administration, agricultural
economics or agriculture, preferably with graduate level
training; 10 years of professional experience, a substantial
part of which should have been acquired in agricultural extension
projects in developing countries; experience as project manager
or team leader of important projects.
(b) Assume overall responsibility for all aspects of project imple-
mentation; as the project manager, would organize, coordinate
and supervise SURDU's activities including training of counterpart
staff, as well as coordinate with bilateral and multilateral aid
agencies operating in the project area.
2.   Administrative and Finance Officer
(a) University degree in business administration and accounting with
at least five years' professional experience as an accountant
and administrator, part of which should have been acquired in
development projects in developing countries.
(b) Design, organize and manage SURDU's accounting system, input
distribution system and administrative services.



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 2
3.   Credit Officer
(a) University degree, preferably in business administration, with
five years' professional experience in banking, a substantial
part of which should have been acquired in agricultural credit,
preferably in developing countries.
(b) Organize and manage the ACF branch offices in Taiz and Ibb in
collaboration with the Fund's Manager in Sana'a; train ACF staff;
coordinate with the project's input distribution activities.
4.   Senior Extension Agronomist-Ibb
(a) University degree in agriculture (agronomy) with at least five
years' professional experience, a substantial part of which
should have been in agricultural extension projects involving
grain and vegetable'production in developing countries.
(b) Set up and supervise all extension operations in the high rainfall
area north of the Sayani Pass, including training field supervisors
and extension agents, at the same time transferring increasing
responsibility to his/her counterpart and to his/her junior exten-
sion agronomist.
5.   Senior Extension Agronomist-Taiz
(a) University degree in horticulture or agronomy with at least five
years' professional experience, a substantial part of which should
have been in vegetable and fruit production, including plant pro-
tection, preferably in agricultural extension projects in developing
countries.
(b) As under 4(b) but for the low rainfall area south of the Sayani
Pass.
6.   Extension Agronomist - Plant Protection
(a) University degree in agriculture with specialization or field
experience in plant protection, with a minimui of five years
professional experience, preferably with a plant protection
service, part of which spent in developing countries.
(b) Identify pests in the project area and prescribe appropriate
protection techniques; train extension agents in identification
of pests and in plant protection techniques; advise farmers on
plant protection techniques which include demonstrations in
farmers' fields in collaboration with the local extension agents;
organize a plant protection brigade both at Taiz and Ibb for
large scale emergency spraying with mobile units. He/she will
receive professional guidance and supervision from the UNDP/FAO
project's plant protection expert in Taiz.



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 3
7.   Veterinarian
(a) University degree in veterinary science, with at least five years'
professional experience, part of which should have been in cattle
and/or sheep livestock projects in developing countries.
(b)  Organize vaccination campaigns for livestock and poultry in
the project area, train extension agents in fighting internal
parasites of sheep, and prepare the associate veterinarian
to take over operations beginning Year 3.
8.   Livestock Expert
(a) University degree in agriculture with specialization in animal
husbandry and feed production, with at least five years' profes-
sional experience, part of which should have been acquired in
livestock projects involving cattle or sheep in developing
countries.
(b) Train extension agents and advise farmers in feed production,
fodder storage, range management, animal husbandry and marketing.
9.   Senior Civil Engineer
(a) University degree in civil engineering with at least five years'
professional experience in rural civil works, part of it acquired
in developing countries and at least part of it as a senior project
expert.
(b) Assume overall responsibility for execution of the rural works
component of the project, consisting of feeder roads, village water
supply systems, lining of irrigation canals, production wells,
land protection, office buildings and houses; coordinate and
supervise the activities of three associate experts and five
counterparts.
The Associate Experts
1. Extension Agronomist - Ibb
(a) University degree in horticulture with specialization in fruit
and vegetable production with at least one year professional
experience, preferably in agricultural extension.
(b) Assist the senior extension agronomist in his/her functions,
specifically in supervision and training of field supervisors
and extension agents.



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 4
2.   Extension Agronomist - Taiz
(a) University degree in agriculture with specialization in agronomy,
with at least one year experience, preferably in an agricultural
extension project involving grain production in developing countries.
(b) Responsibilities as stated under lb) plus responsibility for ex-
tension operations and personnel involved in grain production.
3.   Extension Agronomist - Water Management
(a)  University degree in agriculture with specialization in irrigation
agronomy, with at least two years' professional experience, part
of which should have been acquired in minor irrigation projects.
(b) Train extension agents and advise farmers through the extension
agents in improved irrigation techniques and improvement of
irrigation installations for water distribution, water control
and drainage.
4.   Extension Horticulturist
(a) University degree in horticulture with specialization in
vegetable production, with at least one year professional
experience in vegetable and fruit production including
grading, packing, and marketing.
(b) Train extension agents in improved vegetable and fruit produc-
tion techniques; conduct tests and demonstrations on farmers'
fields in collaboration with local extension agents. Maintain
close contact with research on vegetables and fruits being
carried out in the country, especially under the UNDP/FAO
project and decide which results (variety recommendations,
etc.) could be employed in the project; he/she will receive
professional support from the UNDP/FAO project's senior
horticulturist.
5.   Livestock Expert
(a) University degree in agriculture with specialization in livestock
and forage production, with at least one year experience in cattle
or sheep husbandry complementary to the senior livestock expert's
area of expertise.



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 5
(b) Assist the senior livestock expert in keeping in close contact
with research on fodder crops; organize on-farm tests and
demonstration of fodder production crops. If the senior expert
works principally in the high rainfall area, the associate live-
stock expert would work primarily in the low rainfall area.
6.   Veterinarian
(a) University degree in veterinary science, with at least one
year professional experience.
(b) Assist the senior veterinarian during year 2 in the vaccina-
tion campaigns in the project area and in the anti-parasite
program for sheep; assume full responsibility for the project's
veterinary operation by year 3 after the senior veterinarian
leaves. Professional guidance will then be provided by the
veterinarian in charge of the national veterinary service
being built under British aid. Laboratory facilities would
be provided within the project and would also be available
within the national veterinary service.
7-9. Civil Engineers (Three Positions)
(a) University degree in civil engineering with at least three
years' professional experience, preferably in rural works in
developing countries. Specialization in one of the three
principal areas mentioned below is required. In the absence
of a university degree, at least ten years of comparable ex-
perience would be required.
(b) Survey, design and supervise construction of one of the following:
(i) roads, buildings and houses;
(ii) village water supply systems and production wells;
(iii) irrigation and land protection.
Assist in the other two areas when necessary and transfer increasing respon-
sibility to his/her counterpart.
10. Maintenance Supervisor
(a) University degree in mechanical engineering or senior mechanic.
(b) Organize and operate SURDU's maintenance workshop and train
project mechanics and mechanics from pump dealers who would
provide village water pumps and production wells under the project.



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 6
Part-Time Consultants
1.   Rural Sociologist/Farmer Organization Expert
(a) University degree in sociology or agriculture with specialization
in rural sociology and statistics, with at least ten years' pro-
fessional experience including designing and directing agricul-
tural census operations with farmers' organizations; preferably
a university professor who can assign students to do thesis work
within the project area.
(b) Investigate the land tenure situation in the project area;
organize where required, farmers' associations for storage,
grading, packing and marketing of exportable surpluses generated
within the project; design and supervise an agricultural census
to provide basic data for project preparation in areas where
the basic project concept may be extended.
2.  Marketing/Agro-Industries Expert
(a) University degree in business administration, economics or
process engineering with supplementary advanced training in
one of these fields; ten years' professional experience in
processing industries and in marketing and market research,
a considerable part of which should have been acquired in
developing countries.
(b) Quantify local demand and export possibilities for potatoes,
onions and other vegetables and fruits; specify required
equipment and help set up pilot facilities for storage, packing,
processing, transport and export of the above commodities; in
collaboration with the rural sociologist, advise on and set up
appropriate organizations and marketing structures; towards the
end of the project, analyze the need for supplementary measures
in grain storage and marketing; help the Project Unit set up a
marketing information system for cereals, potatoes, vegetables
and fruits.
3.   Seed Potato Specialist
(a) University degree in agronomy with specialization in potato
seed multiplication, with at least ten years' professional
experience in organizing seed potato production, storage and
marketing, preferably in developing countries.
(b) Plan and initiate multiplication of seed potato at a central
farm and later on with selected farmers; specify required faci-
lities for storage, grading, packing and distribution.



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 7
4.   Agricultural Economist
(a) University degree in agricultural economics with advanced studies
in project evaluation; at least ten years' professional experience,
part of which should have been acquired in developing countries in
formulation and review of rural development projects.
(b) Evaluate project performance relative to overall goals (spacifically,
determine project benefits and principal beneficiaries); identify
effective constraints in project operations; recommend changes in
organization, personnel and equipment to improve project performance;
record evaluation results for improved project preparation; parti-
cipate in preparation for the project's expansion.
5.   Hydrogeologist
(a) University degree in hydrogeology with at least ten years' pro-
fessional experience in groundwater development, part of which
should have been acquired in developing countries.
(b) Conduct a comprehensive study of groundwater resources in the
project area; assist SURDU's Engineering Section in the ap-
praisal of proposed village water supply systems and espe-
cially in the siting of tubewells; appraise the technical
aspects of credit applications for production wells, in close
cooperation with SURDU's Engineering Section and irrigation
extension agent.



ANNEX 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                 Table 1
SOUTHERN UPIANDS RURAL DEVELOPNT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Key Indicators
Y E A R
1        2         1         h.
No. of agents/supervisors
in the field (cumulative)          27/2     67/7      108/11    149/15     176/19      176/19
No./annual amount of input
credit (US$000)                  570/45 7,860/140 4,200/310 7,300/565 11,ooo/890 14,600/9bo
Km. of feeder roads constructed
(cumulative)                         -       50        100       150      180-200
No. of village water supply
systemsstarted (cumulative)         18        54        90
No. of production wells drilled
(cumulative)                         -       I ip                 50         70         100
Estimated additional hectares
irrigated thru canal lining (cum.)   -       200       400       600
No. of expatriate experts in place     8         8         7         7           6          4
No. of associates in place             8         9        10        10           9          8
No. of consultants hired               2         5         4         5           3          3
1/
No. of nationals hired-/ (cum.)       21        21        21        21         20
Status of preparation for project
expansion                            -         -      Agri-    Hydro-  FeasaLility
cultural  geological  study
census   & irrigation
design for
Wadi Bana &
El Gened
/ Level of supervisor and above, including field credit officers, language instructor  and
interpret rs, but excluding field extension supervisors.
Note: Variations of - 10% in the numbers indicated would be acceptable.
June 7, 1974






CHART 1
YEMAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEARS
0               12                              3               4               5               6
I AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
a) Extension Training-No, of trainees/year                                 6                04
(provided by UNDP/FAO Project)
b) Extension Service-No. of Agents/Supervisors                     r/"7 77'2 /            "s        7 7'7 -71- 1  y''o,,           - 77i--71 7f r77
/    272  6777/7  /7/108/117~~/ /74/1 5                 IA/7 176/19761
cl Total Farms/Hectares Covered (cumulative)                         / 810 1/1350      27404600         9 /                       6 10200   1 42021780   1 700 26800    207780 3520 0
11 RURAL WORKS                                                           r7va,/Tn,rr  7776 77-77'    7777777777  '777777777 ,777rr777,
a) Construction of Feeder Roads-Km./year                             Survey Tende   Construction 50        50             50//           3050
Survey Tender
77777777   77
b) Construction of Village Water Supply                              // ///I18  / / /36           /        36
Systems-No./year                                                  ,   ,,Z..,,,,,Z.,                      ,      .
c) Drilling of Production Wells-No./year                                                   1               20              2               20               30
d) Additional Irrigated Area through Canal                            "  Su vey        Const 200          200             200
Lining (ha/year)                                                                                              _
a) Land Protection-Percentage of total schemes                        /5Surey                                                             50
completed/year                                                    /..... ,,    ,,,o'//   //.1%/////5                         /.z        .......
f) Extension Staff Housing - No./Year                               .Survey Const15,       30'        M
g) Offices                                                           SJvey  Off ic Ceont,ertt iz r estr
III STUDIES & OTHER PROJECT COMPONENTS                                 77-7771         77
a) Ground Water Study (man-months)                                                   2                2               2               2]
b) Land Tenure/Farmers' Organization Study &                                          3               3              /3
Agricultural Census (man-months)                        v .,                     ,
c) Marketing/Agro-Industries Study (man-months)                                       33                             '3              E  3-
dl Seed Potato Multiplication (man-months)                                                                            1
e) Project Monitoring (man-months)
Kuwait Fund Study
f) Livestock Study (man-months)                                                                      /    12              1       / 7/  12 7
WHO Study,Project Funding for Studies Molluscicides & Equipment
9) Rural Health                                                             .ogeological Study &
Agricultural Census                 Wadi Ba  & E 0
h) Extension of Project Concept (man-months)                           ..                       . ........ ,                                1
ar Elis akl                                                 Feasibility Study
il Fellowships (no./year)                                        Bth7//   5//                         7/   5 /// /7/ /7/7/7/7/  57 /57
j) Potato & Onion Processing, Handling& Storage                                                                                      77777777771
Facilities; Grain Storage                                                                                           /7    Estab  hment of Pilot Schemes
Studies & Pilot Schemes in Cooperation  P/FAO
k) Coffee Nurseries & Processing Facilities
17,,,7777777/71 pUndertaken or Supervised by                         U                                                Undertaken by External
I I I I / I , , , , , Project Unit                               Undrta--bykthe Aen-esConsultants                                              Wand Bavk-8778I2R)



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT            |
Ministy o        f
Regionel D:eco .
SUR  DINU  D
SENIOR EXPERTS                     AGRICULTURAL CREDIT                                                                                                               RURALOKl ADMINISTRATION, FINANCEl
Efteni-       PRO. E                  Senior Field     CREDIT                                                                                                     Ei                                                         Ad     trtNSTRABTI
-~Were Mo,t.  VTRNIAN                 Credit Office    OFFICERy                                                                                                                                                                ffc.
1111_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Yfeter Soppl y                                                       ENINE                                    O_ o               IAC
WATER SUPPLY             FEEDER ROADS               IRRIGATION &                       SERVICES
Field redit  FielId C,edit                                                                                                        & HOUSES              LAND PROTECTION
Officr-Ibb    Office -Ti                                                                                                                                           I         
razI.. EXTENSION CFFIC.E                    TAIZ EXTENSION OFFICE         Enginee ,                Engi-er                    E.qi-lnE! ~ER-TT
Agen r   Aenr                           e Minr o
LEMP ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        Eteso ATFONO I AAGT EJ
Supervisor    _                         tnso Sup-is-
10 Extension                          IW Eet
Agents P.,                            A.t. P.,o 
Buperfisor                            Sup-ri-o



ANNEX 5
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
A. The Banking System
Background
1.        The practice of modern banking in YAR dates to 1962 when the Yemen
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD) was established as a public
sector organization, with a minority private shareholding. YBRD acted as
both an independent economic agent and an agent of Government monetary policy
until formation of the Central Bank of Yemen (CB) in 1971. Banking operations
are controlled by the Banking Law 1971, which supplements the Companies Law.
It covers the granting of permission to operate a bank and the regulation of
its operations, and limits its responsibilities. The law also stipulates
capital, reserve and liquidity requirements and regulates procedures for
accounting, auditing, and supervision.
2.        The banks currently operating in YAR are YBRD and four foreign
banks: the Habib Bank, the British Bank of the Middle East, the United Bank
and the Arab Bank.
The Central Bank of Yemen
3.        CB was established in September 1971 with an authorized capital of
YRls 10 million. IMF experts assisted Government in its establishment and
later helped organize its various departments. CB's principal functions
include providing rediscounting facilities to commercial banks and acting
as banker to Government. CB rediscounts commercial bank credit instruments
with a maturity not exceeding six months from the date of rediscount, and
industrial and agricultural production loans with a maturity of no more than
nine months. Table 1 gives CB's consolidated balance sheet.
4.        CB's policy is formulated by a Board of Directors consisting of a
governor, a deputy governor, a representative of the Ministry of Treasury,
a representative of the Ministry of Economy and three other directors ap-
pointed by the Minister of Treasury. The governor and the deputy governor
are appointed by the President of the Republic as full-time employees for
four years and are eligible for reappointment. The Board must meet at least
once every two months; four members form a quorum, one of whom must be either
the governor or the deputy governor. The governor is in charge of CB's man-
agement, which must conform to the policy determined by the Board. At pres-
ent CB has the following departments: Central Accounts, Government Accounts,
Foreign Money Issuing, Legal, and Economic Research. The establishment of a



ANNEX 5
Page 2
department for the control of banks is underway. CB has a total of 240 em-
ployees. Its headquarters is in Sana'a, and it has one office each in Taiz
and Hodeidah.
5.        Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  YBRD is the largest
commercial bank in Yemen. After the establishment of CB, YBRD concentrated
on serving as a commercial and investment development bank. YBRD was retently
(1973) selected to serve as credit channel in the Industrial Estate Project
(Credit 465-YAR). Its paid-up share capital is YRls 10 million, 51% of which
is Government-held; the balance of 49% is owned by the public. YBRD extends
short-term loans and advances to public enterprises, private industries, com-
mercial firms and contractors. It finances the Cotton General Company, and
firms engaged in stocking and supplying fertilizers and other inputs. It
also provides a small number of loans to farmers against mortgage of property
for purchase of tractors and for installation of irrigation wells. Loans and
other advances increased from YRls 21.4 million (US$4.8 million) in 1968 to
YRls 104.7 million (US$23.27 million) in 1972. Besides its lending activi-
ties, YBRD participated in the equity of 10 companies amounting to YRls 15.9
million (US$3.5 million) in 1972. YBRD's loan collection record is satisfac-
tory and its bad debts do not exceed 5% of the loan portfolio. The main of-
fice is located at Sana'a; nine branch and sub-branch offices are situated
throughout the country.
Foreign Banks
6.        The four foreign banks have had offices since 1970/71 in Hodeidah
and Sana'a, with exception of the British Bank of the Middle East which has
its second office in Taiz. Their main activity is short-term financing of
the commercial sector. They are granted rediscounting facilities at CB and
are allowed to accept deposits from the public.
B. Agricultural Credit in YAR
Background
7.        There is no institutional agricultural credit in YAR, except for
cotton. Agricultural investors depend primarily on their own resources, on
remittances from relatives abroad (mainly from Saudi Arabia), and on tradi-
tional non-institutional sources of credit, such as traders, dealers, money-
lenders, and usufructuary mortgages for which notoriously high rates are
charged.
8.        Prior to the creation of the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) under
the Tihama Development Project (TDP), 1/ two attempts were made to establish
an organized national source of credit for the agricultural sector. The
1/   IDA Credit 376-YAR.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
first attempt, made in 1969, involved the establishment of an agricultural
credit department within YBRD to provide short-term credit to farmers. This
proposal was later dropped due to lack of funds and inadequate organization
and staff. In 1971, Parliament passed a law creating an Agricultural Bank,
envisaged as a fully Government-owned institution with an authorized capital
of YRls 20 million. This second effort also failed because the financial and
institutional requirements again were not met.
The Agricultural Credit Fund
9.        For the Tihama Development Project, it was decided that CB would
set up the ACF with a head office at Sana'a and Branch offices at Wadi Zabid
and Wadi Mawr. ACF was to provide short-term, medium-term and long-term loans
to farmers in the project area for purchase of inputs and for capital invest-
ments. ACF was also to finance processing and storage facilities proposed
under the project. ACF has been set up in the second half of 1974 and would
also be the channel for short- and medium and long-term loans to farmers under
the proposed project.
10.       The outline for the organization of ACF was formulated during prep-
aration and appraisal of the TDP. According to this outline, the manager of
ACF, who would reside in Sana'a, would recommend to ACF's Board of Directors
policies to be followed by ACF and, after their approval by the Board, would
be responsible for their implementation. He would also formulate detailed
procedures for all operations of ACF and would be responsible for training
and supervising the local staff, both at headquarters and in the field of-
fices; for adopting the criteria and procedures for loan appraisal, super-
vision, accounting and related functions, and for monitoring all of its as-
pects. The field manager would, during the first stage of the TDP, assist
the manager in his organizational duties in Sana'a and later would be posted
in the field, most likely in Wadi Zabid.
C. Agricultural Credit Under the Project
Objectives
11.       The agricultural credit component of the project, totalling US$2.60
million equivalent, would help finance: (a) inputs, mainly fertilizer and
in later stages pesticides and seeds of improved varieties (US$1.50 million
equivalent); and (b) medium- and long-term investments in pumps and wells,
orchards, tree nurseries, vegetable packing and processing facilities and
basic storage facilities (US$1.10 million).
12.       Financing of Inputs.  In the absence of trained and well qualified
field personnel, ACF would, during the first three to four years of the proj-
ect, rely on extension agents for appraisal of loan applicants and on par-
ticipating village merchants for input distribution and loan collection.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Participation and collaboration of village merchants in the scheme would be
essential for the following reasons:
(a) The village merchants know personally most, if not all, of the
borrowers with whom they are in frequent touch. This intimate
knowledge of the local people would facilitate distribution
of inputs and collection of the loans.
(b) ACF will not have, in the initial years, the personnel which
would be required for collection of the numerous and often
relatively very small input loans.
The German Technical Assistance which on a limited scale distributed fertilizers
in YAR during 1972 and 1973, did so tfirough the village merchants, generally
with very satisfactory results. A very close collaboration between the Proj-
ect Unit (SURDU) and ACF would be condition of a successful input credit
scheme. The purchase of inputs would be the responsibility of SURDU, dis-
tribution of inputs would be the joint responsibility of SURDU and ACF, and
the collection of loans would be done by the participating village merchants
under supervision of ACF.
13.       The pattern of operations would be as follows:
Responsibility1/
and Involvement                                Action
SURDU Staff           a)  Estimate of fertilizer needs;
b) Order of fertilizer;
c)  Appraisal of loan applicants and preparation
of lists of prospective beneficiaries per ex-
tension agent;
d)  Appraisal of participating merchants and prep-
aration of lists of prospective beneficiaries
per participating merchant;
e)  Preparation of logistics of fertilizer trans-
portation and distribution to merchants;
(f)  Preparation of vouchers for fertilizer dis-
ACF Staff                 tribution and collection of farmers 10% down
payment;
g)  Transport of fertilizer to merchants or to
buffer storage in Taiz and Ibb;
\h)  Distribution of vouchers and collection of
farmers down payment;
i)  Distribution of fertilizer to farmers;
J)  Supervision of distribution;
k)  Supervision of proper use of inputs;
Participating          )  Collection of loans from farmers;
Merchants             m)  Collection of money from merchants.
1/ Joint responsibility in some cases. ACF's Field Manager would prepare
detailed procedures and after consultation with SURDU's Manager assign
primary responsibilities.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
14.       Purchase of Inputs.  Well ahead of the planting season, the Project
Manager would estimate the quantity of fertilizer needed, in consultation with
the head of the Extension Services. In accordance with this estimate SURDU
would order the required quantities of fertilizer through local competitive
bidding at the importer's level. At about the same time each extension agent
would be responsible for publicizing the scheme and preparing lists of par-
ticipating farmers. The lists would be kept as simple as possible, but would
include, beside the names of the farmers, all essential information such as
approximate cultivated area, land tenure situation, quantity of fertilizer
approved, the name of two farmer guarantors who are also participating in
the credit scheme and the name and location of the participating merchant
where the farmer intends to collect his fertilizer.
15.       ACF would have previously familiarized the village merchants with
the scheme and appraised those interested in participating. ACF would then
prepare, on the basis of the first lists, a second set of lists of applicants,
this time per participating merchant. The next step would be the preparation
of vouchers authorizing specific merchants to deliver against their presenta-
tion, the determined quantity of fertilizer to each beneficiary.
16.       An agent of ACF would distribute the vouchers with the assistance
of the extension agents and receive for ACF payment of the farmers' contribu-
tion of 10% of the retail value of the fertilizer.
17.       Distribution of Inputs.  Most of the fertilizer would be transported
directly from the importers to the participating merchants, and some stored as
buffer reserve in the two storage facilities to be built in Taiz and Ibb.
18.       Distribution of fertilizer to the participating merchants would be
done according to the pre-established list (para 15 above). The merchants
would act under the scheme at first only as distributing and later as collec-
tion agents (para 21). Their remuneration for performing this task would be
a distribution commission of about 3 to 5% of the cost value of the fertilizer.
19.       The distribution price of fertilizers would be set by SURDU after
consultation with ACF at a level that would cover its CIF cost, its transport
cost from Hodeidah to the distribution points, and the distribution and col-
lection commissions to be eventually paid to the village merchants. A special
commission of 5% would be added to the above cost price; 60% of this commis-
sion would represent the farmer's contribution to the Special Drought Fund
(para 28) and 40% would help to cover ACF's expenses related to input financing.
It is hoped that as a result of greater efficiency and quantity rebates even
after inclusion of this commission, the retail price would be at or below the
current retail price charged by the village merchants.
20.       Supervision of fertilizer use by the approved subborrowers, the
merchants' transactions and check of stocks would be performed jointly by
the extension agents and agents of the ACF. The penalty for nonobservance
of the credit regulations would be exclusion from any further participation
in the project, and if fraud should be involved, the merchant or farmer would
be prosecuted.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
21.       Collection of Input Loans.  Collection of the short-term input loans
would be done through the same merchants who have been involved in fertilizer
distribution. As an incentive to merchants for performing this task, the
collection commission would be graded according to the percentage of out-
standing loans collected up to a given date. A tentative estimate of this
commission which would be included in the retail price would be another 3
to 5% of the loan amount.
22.       The loan collection by the merchants would be closely followed and
supervised by the agents of ACF, who would at this time of year increase their
field visits. Precise by-laws as to the appraisal of subborrowers, distribu-
tion of inputs, collection of loans and supervision would be prepared by the
Credit Input Distribution Specialist as one of the first steps in organizing
ACF's Taiz and Ibb operations.
Medium- and Long-Term Loans
23.       Investment Categories.  The largest single category of loans under
this heading would be groundwater development. It would cover financing over
a period of five years of about 100 wells equipped with motorized pumps. Cost
of such installation complete with tubing has been estimated at YRls 35,000
(about US$7,800 equivalent). Total cost (including physical and price con-
tingencies) would be US$1.48 million of which IDA and Abu Dhabi Fund financing
would amount to US$890,000 (60%), ACF financing to US$295,000 (20%), and
farmers' contribution to US$295,000 (20%).
24.       A sum of US$220,000 would be set aside for IDA and Abu Dhabi Fund
financing of investments in tree nurseries, orchard plantations and some basic
vegetable packing and processing plants. SURDU would be responsible for de-
tailed technical appraisal of each loan application, taking into account not
only financial viability of the subprojects but equitable distribution of the
expected benefits and in the case of wells, availability of adequate ground-
water resources.
25.       Terms of Loans.  Minimum contribution by subborrowers would be 20%
of investment cost; maturities would not exceed the life of the assets fi-
nanced; loans in excess of US$50,000 equivalent or loans for processing and
storage facilities would require IDA's prior approval. Maximum repayment
period for various types of loans would be as follows: -
Investment Categories                  Grace Period  Repayment Period  Total
---------      Years-----------------
Wells, pumps and pump motors                1                 5            6
Orchards, coffee plantations                4                 6           10
On-farm development and processing
and storage facilities                 2                 8           10



ANNEX 5
Page 7
26.       Lending operations and procedures to be followed by ACF when extend-
ing medium- and long-term loans would be in line with a Policy Statement which
is to be issued by CB in connection with the TDP (Appendix 2). ACF's field
staff would assist applicants in the preparation of loan requests, farm plans,
income and expenditure estimates, and cash flows; appraise applications in
terms of incremental returns; and submit recommendations to management.
Project staff would assist ACF in this task. Supervision would be performed
by ACF staff, who would periodically visit the subborrowers' farm or installa-
tions.
Guarantees
27.       In the case of short-term loans for inputs, ACF would not require
guarantees other than a joint guarantee by two other subborrowers. In the
case of medium- and long-term loans ACF shall obtain adequate security for
each loan. Detailed security requirements for the latter loan category would
be worked out by ACF's general manager after consultation with SURDU.
Special Drought Fund
28.       In the project area south of the Sayani Pass (33% of the project
area) a drought occurs on average every third year. Given the very low level
of the farmers' living standard, it is likely that in such cases some subbor-
rowers would be unable to repay their input loans. Postponement of the pay-
ment date or repayment by installments spread out over several years in real
hardship cases would not be a realistic solution. In order for ACF to avoid
these periodic losses, a special reserve fund (Special Drought Fund - SDF)
would be established in ACF's accounts. The SDF account would be credited
by: (a) an amount equal to 3% of the fertilizer sales as subborrowers' con-
tribution (para 19); and (b) an amount equal to the differential of interest
on the IDA/Government loan earmarked for financing of medium term subloans.
As its contribution to SDF government would waive payment of 3% of the usual
4% interest on loans to public institutions (para 34). The SDF account would
be debited by exceptional losses due to non-repayment of short-term loans in
the drought area. However, in order to insure against any abuse of SDF,
strict definitions of what constitutes a hardship case and in what cases
partial or total loan repayment may be waived, would be prepared by the ACF's
field manager in consultation with SURDU's manager.
Interest Rates
29.       Prevailing interest rates charged in YAR for commercial short-term
loans are between 12 and 13%. Preferential rates of 6%-8% are being granted
exclusively to the Cotton General Company. A 4% rate is being charged by
CB for loans to Government. Government has agreed that the interest rates
to be charged by ACF for agricultural credit will not be less than 9% p.a.
for short-term loans and 8% p.a. for medium- and long-term loans.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
30.       The basic structure of ACF as outlined in the TDP would be comple-
mented under the proposed project by two additional field offices, one in Taiz
and the one in Ibb. A second regional manager residing in Taiz would organize
and supervise their day-to-day operations. He would report to the ACF manager
in Sana'a in the same manner as the Tihama field manager. He would also be
responsible for training of local staff.
31.       The staffing of the field offices is expected to be as follows:
(a) the Taiz office would be the main regional office, headed by
a regional field manager who during the first two to three
years of project implementation, would be simultaneously head
of the Taiz local agency. His staff would consist of a credit
officer, a junior field officer, and one or two clerks.
(b) The Ibb office would be headed by a senior field credit officer
assisted by a field credit officer and a clerk.
32.       Under TDP the manager and field manager are expatriate consultants
for an estimated initial period of three years. After this time it is ex-
pected they would be replaced by trained Yemeni counterparts (with prior ap-
proval of IDA). Similar situations would apply to the Southern Uplands
extension of ACF. The field manager in Taiz initially would be an expatriate
specialist, to be replaced in due course by his local counterpart.  The field
credit officers would be Yemeni nationals from the beginning of project im-
plementation.
Resources of ACF
33.       The originally decided funding of ACF for medium- and long-term
credits under the TDP was to consist of: (a) US$0.665 million lent to ACF
by Government; and (b) US$2 million from the proceeds of the IDA credit.
The funds for short-term production credit were to be obtained by ACF from
Government by special agreement, from loans and rediscount facilities, and
other sources. The Government loan under (a) was to be made at an interest
rate of 4% per annum for 15 years, including five years of grace; the same
conditions were to be applied for the on-lend proceeds of the IDA credit.
However, it was agreed that if ACF should become an independent agricultural
credit institution, the Government loan would be transformed into equity.
34.       Resources required for financing of short- and medium- and long-term
loans under the proposed project would consist of the credit component of the
IDA and Abu Dhabi Fund. IDA/Abu Dhabi Fund disbursement for input and pro-
duction loans financing would in case ACF becomes independent, be converted
into ACF equity; IDA/Abu Dhabi Fund financing for medium- and long-term loans
would be made available to ACF as a loan for 15 years including a five-year
grace period. Interest of 1% p.a. would be charged by Government for this
loan; however, ACF would appropriate in its accounts an amount equal to 3%
interest differential on the outstanding loan to a special fund to be estab-
lished for drought risk in the low rainfed project region (for additional
details see para 28).



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Disbursement Procedure
35.       IDA funds would be disbursed to ACF following two different proce-
dures. For short-term input financing, disbursement would be made against
presentation to IDA of a pro forma invoice for fertilizer to be distributed
under the project. Disbursements would cover the incremental cost of the
fertilizer to be procured by SURDU each year. In this manner, it would be
possible to build up a revolving fund which would enable ACF to operate in-
dependently after Year 6 without further outside funding. The amount to be
disbursed under this loan category by IDA and the Abu Dhabi Fund would be
US$1.50 million.
36.       For medium- and long-term loans, IDA credit would be made available
to ACF in the identical manner as under the TDP, namely by reimbursement of
75% of ACF's eligible loans. The amount to be disbursed under these cate-
gories of credit would total US$1.10 million, (including Abu Dhabi Fund).
Accounts and Audit
37.       ACF accounting would be handled by CB's accounting department, but
would be kept separately from CB's own accounts. At present CB accounts are
audited by independent auditors appointed by the Ministry of Finance. Under
the project, accounts would also be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA. Audit reports and financial statements would be submitted to IDA not
later than four months after the close of each fiscal year.
Cash Flow
38.       The estimated project cash flow of ACF (Table 2) is based on gov-
ernment loans to ACF of US$2.10 million (YRl 9.50 million) for the credit
component of the project, of which US$1.00 1/ million (YRl 4.50 million)
would be an interest free long-term loan to be converted into government's
contribution to ACF's equity in case ACF should become an independent agency,
and US$1.10 million (YR1 4,95) would be in the form of a loan from the Govern-
ment at 1X interest for a term of 15 years including 5 years of grace. The
cash position after Year 6 of the project implementation would permit ACF to
continue short-term lending at about the same rate as in Year 6 of project
and to maintain medium- and long-term lending for replacement at about half
the level of Year 6.
1/   The provision in IDA/Abu Dhabi credit under this category is US$1.50
million and includes contingencies, omitted in the Cash Flow table.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
1Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Income and Expenditure and Cash Flow Tables
Assumptions
Income and Expenditure
1.        Sales of Fertilizer:  Figure is based on CIF value plus distribution,
handling and loan collection cost, all estimated at 45% of CIF cost, plus an
additional margin of 5% intended to cover losses due to drought (3 percentage
points of the 5%) and part of ACF's general expenses related to the fertil-
izer program.
2.        Bad Debts:  Collections are expected to be 90% in year 1, 91% in
year 2, and so forth until 95% in year 6. From then on collections and bad
debt write-off's remain at 95% and 5% respectively.
3.        Interest Income-Short- and Medium- and Long-Term Loans:  Interest
has been assumed to be respectively 9% and 8%o for short-term, and medium-
and long-term loans. Short-term loans have been outstanding in average 9
months, although in the irrigated areas this would be about 6 months.
Medium- and long-term loans have been assumed to be outstanding in average
5 years, including one year of grace.
4.        CIF Cost Fertilizer:  Figures are arrived at by calculation of
(a) phasing in of farms for each model, (b) phasing in production and input
variations for each farm, and (c) taking into consideration projections of
fertilizer prices for the rest of this decade. Thereafter fertilizer prices
have been assumed to remain constant. Price assumptions were based on April
1974 commodity price forecasts prepared by The Commodities aid Export Projec-
tions Division.
5.        Transport, Distribution and Collection Cost.  Estimated at 45% of
CIF price, the percentages have been arrived at by analysis of actual costs
and merchants and middlemen margins in Yemen.
6.        Administrative Expenses:  For the first two years only the salaries
of two field credit officers and two janitors (YRls 24,200 per annum) have
been taken into account as SURDU will finance additional two field credit
officers, 1 senior credit officer and an expatriate credit specialist. All
other general expenses will in this period be covered either by SURDU or the
CB. From year 3 on it has been assumed that ACF will progressively finance
an increasing proportion of its general expenses which have been estimated
to reach at full development about 3% of each year's disbursements.



AiNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
7.        Interest to be Paid to Government:  The assumed rate is 1% on the
balance of the Government's loan for financing of medium- and long-term sub-
loans for on-farm investment. No interest has been assumed on the Govern-
ment's loan for short-term subloans as the said loan is to be converted into
ACF's equity.
8.        Medium- and Long-Term Bad Debts Provision:  The bad debt yearly
provision has been set at 5% of disbursements in this category of loans. No
precise data are available to corroborate this assumption but according to
importers in YAR who occasionally sell to farmers on credit a 5% provision
for bad debts appeared adequate.
9.        SDF - Special Drought Fund Provision:  Part Government is equivalent
to 3% interest on Government's loan financing of medium-term on-farm invest-
ment. Part farmer represent 3% of fertilizer sales (see under 1). (Further
details see Annex 5, para 28).
10.       Drought Loss Each Third Year:  Rrepresent 50% of normal loan repay-
ments in the low rainfed area of the project for that given year.
Cash Flow Statements
11.       IDA/Government Credit for Short-Term Loans:  (To be converted into
equity.)  Disbursements are equal to the incremental CIF price of fertilizer
to be purchased by SURDU on yearly basis. The provision in the credit under
this heading has been increased by a price contingency equal to 50% of the
incremental fertilizer base cost.
12.       IDA/Government Credit for Medium- and Long-Term Loans:  Represents
60% of subproject cost. (These are the sane terms as under the Tihama
Development Project, namely: IDA financing 60% of investment, ACF and sub-
borrowers 20% each.)
13.       Farmers Contribution:  10%- of sales.
14.       Farmers Repayment - Short-Term Loans:  See under 2 Bad Debts.
15.       Farmers Repayment - Medium- and Long-Term Loans:  Based on average
terms of 5 years including 1 year of grace.                 .
16.       Medium- and Long-Term Loans Disbursements:  80% of investment cost
(remaining 20% carried by subborrower).
17.       Repayment IDA/Government Loan:  Terms of loan 15 years including 5
years (year 2 - 6) of grace.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Policy Statement for Operations of Agricultural Credit
Fund to be Established in Central Bank
(under the Tihama Development Project)
Resources of the Fund
1.        The initial resources of ACF would consist of:  (a) a sum of YRls
3.0 million (US$0.665 million) lent tu ACF by Government from its own resources,
at an interest rate of 4% per annum and for a term of 15 years including five
years' grace, (b) YRls 9.0 million (US$2.0 million) from the proceeds of the
IDA credit to be passed on by Government to ACF in the same manner, and (c)
amounts received by way of repayment of loans made from the resources of ACF.
Use of Resources of ACF
2.        The YRls 12.0 million ((a) plus (b) of para 1), of which 25%
originates from Government's-own resources and,75% from the IDA credit, shall
be used by ACF exclusively for medium- and long-term loans for financing in-
vestments in groundwater development, farm machinery, on-farm development,
processing and storage facilities and for short-term loans for incremental
working capital for additional inputs.
3.        All recoveries made in respect of loans disbursed from ACF shall be
credited to ACF and may be used either for short-term production loans or for
further medium- and long-term loans.
4.        The interest paid on resources in ACF and that earned on the loans
shall be carried to the profit and loss account of ACF.
5.        ACF shall maintain separate accounts for (a) operations utilizing
resouces from medium- and long-term loans, and (b) operations with resources
from recoveries or other sources to be utilized for short-term production
credit.
Eligible Borrowers
6.        Loans from ACF may be made to individual cultivators, groups of
farmers, persons or entities engaged in agriculture-related activities speci-
fied under paragraph 2 of this policy statement, each of whose business is
conducted within the project areas or related to the agricultural produce
therefrom.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
Size of Loans
7.        No single loan for groundwater development, farm machinery or on-farm
development shall exceed YRls 135,000 (US$30,000). Any loan application ex-
ceeding this amount and all loan applications for processing and storage facil-
ities will require IDA's prior approval.
8.        A loan to any beneficiary shall not exceed 80% of the total ccst of
the investment proposed.
Security
9.        ACF shall obtain adequate security for each loan made.  Eowever,
apart from security considerations, loan requests shall be evaluated in terms
of the projected incremental returns from the additional investment to be
financed and the resulting repayment capacity of the borrower.
Lending Principles
10.       ACF shall aim at financing only those investments that are found,
on careful appraisal including field investigation, to be technically feasible
and financially viable, and can be expected to be managed satisfactorily.
11.       The period of repayment of loans shall be based on the life of the
asset or development financed and on realistic projections of the borrower's
cash flow.
12.       Loans from ACF would not be used for refinancing investments already
financed from other sources.
Recovery of Loans
13.       Records shall be kept of the repayment dates for loan installments
and the progress of collections.
Rate of Interest
14.       Loans made by ACF will bear interest at a rate reasonably in line
with commercial banks' interest rates for medium- and long-term loans. The
interest rate of loans from ACE may be revised from time to time in the light
of the current market rate and ACF's operating expenses, including adequate
provision for bad debts and depreciation, but with the approval of IDA.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
AMENDMENTS NEEDED FOR BROADENING THE SCOPE OF OPERATIONS OF ACF
Resources of the Fund
15.       The initial resources as described in para 1 of Policy Statement of
Operations will be completed under the Southern Uplands Rural Development
Project (SURDEP) by (a) YRls 6,750,000 (US$1,500,000) from the proceeds of
the IDA/other sources credit for financing of short-term agricultural input
loans and by (b) YRls 4,950,000 (US$1,100,000) from the proceeds of the same
credit for financing of medium- and long-term loans. The former amount will
be a governmental grant in case ACF becomes an independent institution. The
latter amount will be passed on by Government to ACF as a loan at an interest
of 1% per annum for a term of 15 years including five years of grace. A 3%
interest rate differential will be credited by ACF to a special reserve fund
account to cover exceptional losses of ACF due to catastrophic drought condi-
tions in the Taiz region.
Use of Funds
16.       The YRls 6,750,000 ((a) above) will be exclusively used by ACF to
finance input purchases and their distribution under the SURDEP. The YRls
4,950,000 ((b) above) shall be used by ACF exclusively for medium- and long-
term loans to be extended to farmers under the SURDEP.
Size of Loans
17.       Para 7 should be completed.  No single short-term input loan shall
exceed YRls 10,000 (US$2,200).
18.       Para 8 should be amended as follows:  A medium- or long-term loan
to any beneficiary shall not exceed 80% of the total cost of the investment
proposed; a short-term loan to any beneficiary shall not exceed 90% of the
price of the financed inputs.



ANNEX 5,
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPIANDS RIDICKAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Central Bank
Comparative Balance Sheets
Year Eading June 30                     1971         1972       1973
- -YR1 million-------)
Assets
Foreign Assets                      395.5          e        603.6
Gold, silver, foreign notes           2.9         1     1     0.3
SDR                                   5J4        iU.6        11.6
Convertible currencies               20.3        129.8      164.8
Foreign securities                    -            -        104.7
Other foreign exchange              366.9        361.6      322.2
Cash in Hand                          1.8         17.8       14.3
Advancea andl Loans                 144.7        152.6      1
Treasury bills                      135.0      135.0        13.7
Claim oan public enterprises          -            0.4        2.1
Claims on Comercial Banks             9.4         14.0       13.2
Other                                 0.3          3.2        7.9
Fixed Assets (After Depreciation)    0.8           1.5         1
Total                           542.8       676.4       781.3
Liabilities
Currency Issued                     237.1        321.7      429.0
Current Liabilities                  11.4 A5.2                33.3
Government                           11.2         44.        12.7
Conmercial Banks                      -            3.9       14.3
Other                                 0.2          6.5        6.3
Foreign Liabilities                   -            7.8       58.8
ffqu-ity                              6.0         20.0       24.5
Profit Allocated to Government        1.3          .9         9.0
Allocation of SDRs                    5.3         11.6       11.6
Exchange, Valuation Account-        281.7        256.2      215.1
Total                           542.8       676.4       781.3
==:=   =s===
j/~~~~~



]2SzN AR RERTSLIC
La TImmlurilll 'JLA A'Do   A L Dz-nE;Q_p>Zhs PROIECI
AC7'. FoJect 7.J oe I   ttr -. 03ro00oo
Y r                                                     J1  2  2  4  0  6       7          8          9         J10           31         22 13                  .2&          13
ea"sg of F r ili-er (1) (4)                                51.0     157.6        348.4      627.7     993.,6   1,493.4      1, 60. 7 1,761.3       1,760.7    1,760.7     1,r60.7    1,760.7      1,760.7     1,760.7     1,760.7
I... Bad Debt. fbo-t-Term toao  (2)                         42      JNf4         4#344                ~4   ~4l       4       744;., 'O                                                  7    )j7 .7                .1'       *IT'
Interet I.-m
Mor-Te- Loo  (3)                                         3.1       9.8         21.8       39.7       63 3       9.6L       10o3.8     13.3        13.5       313.5       li3.          3.5       113.5       113.5        43.5
~~~ Sass (3) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.6                                                 52.3      .61.8        62.2         742.0                            4o. o      40.0o        4o.o        4o. o       40.0
Modi-a-ww4- Xmmme ()             4-                             _           sRi                 --395' 1        .      -          -w -1"                                133         153f        I!5
TOTAL IOOME                                                     162.2       370.2      669.7    1o053.2    1,5M.3       1,7o4.2   1,849.2     1,841.9    1,837.0      1,835.0    1,835.0     1,835.0      ,835.0      1S35,0
CIF Cost of  rrtilisr (4)                                  33.5      103.5       228.8      412.3      650.6       12.      1,057.9   1,156.8      1,156.5    1,156.5     1,156.5    1,156.5      1,.156.5    1 156.5     1,156.5
Trrnport, Di.tatbtion & Collootion Coat (5)                15        46.6        1                       1,8          0       476,1       0.          2.4                   5520.4                               28          20.4
Sobtotal                              387015311             93179                    .101179            1879    50073W-1  RT  17_733      18790--I    7A7673     1773         7739       10779       897
Ad.tie.trto beoatGvs (6)                                    5.4        5 4        i8.2  25   05         35.6       5253        49.5       53.6        53.5       53.3        53.5        53.5        53.5        53 5        53 5
Toterot to be F.6d to Oor-oornt (7)                         -         0.7         2.5         4.7        6.9        9,3        10.4       9.3         0.2         7.1         6.0        4.9          3.8         2.7         1.6
Fr toin-ss-2o99 TWA Iowa Sed ADibtJ PearlAb  (8)            -         -            9.5       14.6       14.6       14.6        19.8      10.0         10.0       10.0        10.0       10.0         10.0        10.0        10.0
P rt Oo-er-eet Cootribotioo (9)                           -         2.1         7.5       13.1       20.7       23.5         31.2      27.9        24.6       21.3        18.0        14.7        21.4         S.1          4.8
Part Fr     Cot-ibtliot (9) 9                            ,,         4.7        105        108.8  44     7                                        _4
____                         ______   ______                              ______      1,812.8     1 888 4      1 8o4 ______
TOTAL ICXPDIITLZRE                                     ss.      163.0       376.0      674.8    1,050.9    1,5746.0     2L6 1,869.2           1,83101,807211812.8 7.8o3.4                                 1,804, 0    1,799.6
DOS NoDwe  (Los..) for Yoa(.0                                             (0.8)        (5.8)      (s.i~       2.3)     3.2.3        n.o       o.8.o        15.9       15.4        07.8       22.0         26.6        31.0       .35.4
FYr01 0 IGOOY3     oow)o  ( .a.)                                (6.0)     (6.8)       ((2.6)     (173      (.15 4)     (3.1)         7.9      26.1         42.o       57.4        75.2       97.4        124.0       155.0       1Io.4
Ltolottto of 81?74                                                                                                                                                  4-41          7.         6.            42          o95.
Prioo- or Yly                                               1.5        6.8        18.0       51.9       50.4       73.4         79.5      80.7        r.4      474.1         70.8        67.5        64.2        60,9         57.6
Orougbt Lo-^ (lo ) (04)
Oeoomolatlve provoslot                       a~~~~~~            ~           ~~~~~.s  t f&5-t  kr   4 4        - r       - t            M)        to           i                        t       ' h
N 4m-r it panthesis refae to the rrleosot P-arenph it Arpoodio 1
2/ looloded iN e.lltnL   rtei. of fortili-or
ACF Fro. ei.t L.h Flov
Goverrent Ltoo  to be Co,ar.ted ito 2/
9qoity (3r Lr   flnn nring) (11)                         33.5      70.0       125.3       183.5      238.3      331.6
Go-rrsnt Loo  f-or MT a  LT lase (12)                        -       143.9       220.4       220.4      220.4      297.5
farme. Coaibtftb~ti  (13)
Fn-fa-r  -overbota1                                        5.1      15.8        34.8        62.8       99.1      149.5       161.1      176.1       176.1      176.1       176.1      176.1        176.1       176.1       176.1
farr repaent sT bats (14) (2)                               41.3     329.0       288.5       525.3      838.0    1,278.6     1,377.1   1,505.9      1,505.4    1,505.4     1,505.4    1,505.4      1,505.4     1,505.4     1,505,4
Ftrr 3epkoemat mT rad LT lease (Ls)                          -         -          47.7       121.1      194.5      268.1       319.5     296.1        272.7      249.3       200.0      200.0        200,0       208.0       200.0
Lnterest loa  (3)                                            3.1      17.4        46.        81.6       116.1      158.2       166.o     167.2        160.4      155.5       153,5      153.5       .153.5       153.5      -AU.7
TOTAL 00FLOW                                           83.0      376.1       703.6    1.194.7    1,706.4    2,483.5      10,23.7   2,145.3     2.,14.6    2,086.3      2,035.0    2.035.0     2,035.0      2,035.0     2,035.0
OUTFPLOW
Cost of FPrttilisr (1) (4) (5)                              48.6     150.1        331.8      597.8      943.4    1,424.2     1,534.0      167.7     1,676.9    1,676,9     1,676.9    1,676.9      1,676.9     1,676.9      1,676.9
r2Mr iT   s  Dler_sn ta (16)                                 -       191.0        293.8      293.8      293.8      396.6       200.0      2X6.0       200.0      200.0       220.0       200.0       200.0       200.0        200.0
5aaYeo--t Govre-roet baa (17)                                -         -           -           -          -        -           110.2      310.2       010.2      110.2       110.2       110.2       310.2        118.2       100.2
AdoOisOtrttore Oepes &i vrite_orr
Ad. 'i bt-tl. IIT 2 la (L6) {)                             5.4        5.4        27.7       40.4       50.2        66.9        69.3      63.6        63.5        63.5        63.5       63.5        63.5         63.5        63.5
oo-optio-al 40-a fte to Drooght (lo)                     _             _             0                     -       209.0         _         -3                             _               192, j _  _ 3  -       -
TOTAL Orrt'Too                                         54.0      346.5       698.3      932.0    1,207.4    2,056~.7     1,913.5   2,051.2     2,240.9    2,050.6    reWG5ob6    2,042.5       2,050.6 6980. 9 124 07 1
oaso oorploa (Deroic)                                            27.0      29,6         7.3       262.7      409.0      426.8       nO.2        94.1      (328.3)      35.7        (15.6)    (207.9)       (15.6)      (15.6)     (207.9)
Comelotive                                                  27.0       56.6        63.9      327.6       745.6    1,172.4     1,282.6   1,376.7     1,240.4    1,284.1      1,268.5    1,060.6      1,045.0     1,02S.4        Sa.3
I/ yjt.. d by TD0/Ab2o Lbi F-d. A-ttto  h..o ore et of o.ottogetolra.



YEMAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF AGRICULTURE CREDIT FUND
CENTRAL
BAN K
GOVERNOR
I    TIHAMA ACF   l                    l   SOUTHEYRN
DEVELOPMENT                                   UPLANDS
AUTHORITY                     ~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT UNITI
MANAGERFEL MNAE
I          _
FIELD MANAGER                                 UPLANDS ACF
ACCOU                                                                 ACCOUNTS
FIELD AGENCY       FIELD AGENCY              FIELD AGENCY        FIELD AGENCY
WADI ZABID         WADI MAWR                    TAIZ               IBB
World Bank-8804(R)






ANNEX 6
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Production and Market Prospects
1.        At full development, the project is expected to increase sorghum
production by 9,100 ton, maize by 8,800 ton, potatoes by 49,300 ton, onions
and other vegetables by 15,400 ton, beans and other pulses by 11,900 ton,
bananas and tree fruit by 4,800 ton and alfalfa by 19,200 ton (see Table 1)
on the basis of yield increases shown in Annex 1. This would be a substantial
increase over the pre-project production level for the area, estimated at
41,000 ton of sorghum, 5,500 ton of maize, 1,400 ton of potatoes and 1,400
ton of onions and other vegetables. It is assumed that without the project,
there would be a one percent annual production increase for the area.
2.        Expressed on a calorie basis as sorghum equivalent, the incremental
project production at full development (excluding fruits and alfalfa) would
amount to 41,000 ton of sorghum, almost as large as the area's pre-project
production of 47,000 ton (Table 2). The country's demand-supply gap for
food is such that although significant, this production increase is equal to
only about 8% of the projected country food deficit of 540,000 ton in Year 9
of the project. During FY1972/73 alone, the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) had to
import more than US$39 million worth of food and livestock (out of US$91 mil-
lion total imports), US$16 million of it in cereals (100,000 ton) (Table 3).
3.        Based on recent YAR and international trade prices, cash crops like
potatoes and onions, if exported, could be traded to obtain the same tonnage
of sorghum for domestic consumption. On the assumption that potato and onion
production would be traded on a one-to-one weight basis, the project at full
development would make 94,000 more ton of sorghum available per year (exclusive
of fruits and alfalfa), a big 17% of the projected annual national deficit
by FY1983/84 (Project Year 9), as shown in Table 2. The alfalfa grown in
the project area could also feed up to 5,000 lambs, or could be used to feed
draft animals whose ranks are periodically decimated by chronic feed shortages.
4.        Market prospects for individual commodities follow:
(a) Cereals - YAR produces 1.2 million ton of cereals and must
import an additional 100,000 ton per year. Therefore, there
would be no difficulty in absorbing domestically the incremental
production of 18,000 ton of sorghum and maize at full development.
(b) Potatoes - Incremental potato production would amount to about
80% of present potato production of 64,000 ton. However, potato
production currently amounts to only 5% of cereal production for
the country as a whole, on a weight basis. This would allow
increased per capita consumption of potatoes to absorb the



ANNEX 6
Page 2
incremental potato production. Aside from the domestic market,
YAR exported potatoes (1,300 ton in 1969/70, 750 ton in 1972/73)
at a price in excess of US$100/ton (Table 3) until recently,
when exports had to be banned because of domestic shortages that
had driven retail prices up to $500/ton. With adequate storage,
packing and handling facilities, it would be possible to export
a substantial portion of the incremental potato production.
(c) Onions & Other Vegetables - YAR produces about 150,000 ton of
vegetables annually. The project would increase this by 10%
at full development. Present per capita vegetable consumption
is very low - only 11 kg in 1970 compared to about 14 kg for
Yemen PDR and 63 kg for a more developed country like Syria.
Therefore, there is room for expansion of domestic demand as
people get used to vegetables and as both income and population
increase. Exports, particularly of onions, are also a possibil-
ity. Egypt, for instance, exports about 100,000 ton of onions
per year (at more than US$100/ton) mostly to Europe. While it
might be difficult to export to Europe, YAR could probably
export to countries like Saudi Arabia which imports about US$20
million worth of fresh vegetables and fruits per year and to
other neighboring countries.
(d) Beans - Pulse production presently amounts to about 56,000 ton
per year. Again, increasing income and population would expand
the domestic market such that it can easily absorb the projected
incremental production of 10,000 ton by 1984.
(e) Bananas & Tree Fruit - YAR currently produces about 60,000 ton of
fruit (excluding grapes) and imports about 17,000 ton each year.
The incremental production of 4,800 ton would substitute for
imports.
(f) Alfalfa - Alfalfa would be consumed on the farm by bullocks and
cows, whose numbers are expected to increase as a consequence of
the project.
5.        As the optimal cropping pattern for the project would vary with
changing prices and market conditions, the project would provide a marketing/
agro-industries consultant to the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
(SURDU) for three months each year from Year 2 to Year 6. The consultant
would supply SURDU with current marketing information, including information
on domestic and export demand for crops to be grown in the project area. In
addition, the consultant would help set up pilot storage, packing and handling
facilities for potatoes, onions and other crops, as required. The consultant's
terms of reference are in Annex 4.



YEMEN ARAB JEPU3C
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPE NT PROJECT
Coat Estimates
Total Projected Volume Increases by Principal Crops
YEAR
________ _______ _______ ________ _______ _______ _______ ________ _______ _______ _______ __Ba sic_B asi r Y artTlta CC ountr
1            2         3          4          5          o         7           '          9                    IO Prod 's n         Production
,prDject area)       (72/73)
Crop                    Model         (-----------------------------------------------Ton---------------------------------------------------      -ton----
Sorghum               2  1/            340       1,020      2,420      4,110      6,250     7,960       6,5cO      3,84o        -         -         2G,480
1  P/            210         930      2,340      4,200      6,350     8,580      9,420       9,980      9,980      9,980      11,230
3a(irrig)              -          -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -                -
3b(lined)         _         (180)      (360)      (540)      (540)     (540)       (540)      (540)      (540)      (540)        54o
3c(pump)          -          (27)       (87)      (153)      (227)     (36060) (3)                       (360)      (360)        360 o
Total                         550        174       4,313      7,617     1133    15,640       15 ,10      12,920                                                     ,o o, 10  9'
Maize                 2                 -          -          -          350         970     2,100      3,900      6,190      8,470      8,470
3a               120         270        560        640        660       390        (590)    (1,700)    (2,1 0)    (2,1 0)      5,540
3b                -        1,080      2,190      2,970      2,380     1,750      1,470      1,470       1,470      1,470        -
3c                -          147        507        907      1,201     1,774      1,554       1187         980        980        -
Total                          120       1,497      3,257      4,o67     5,3211     6,014       63         i7           2         8,810                                 I
CEREAL TOTAL                           670       3,240      7,570     12,484        17,044    21,564   21,444    20,067      17,890     17,890       46,150                1.94,000
Potatoes              2                 -          -          _        1,430      3,900      8,400     15,600     24,750     33,900     33,900
3a                30          80        640      1,300      3,040     4,410      6,750       8,400      8,400      8,400       1,400
3b                -          280        58o      1,980      3,100     4,200      4,200       4,200      4,200      4,200        _
3c                -           40        133        400        887     1 540       1 993      2,800      2,800      2 800        -
Total                           3                   1,353      5,110     10,927    1           2          40,150     49,300                  1                       64 000
Onions & Other veg.  3a                 30          80        640      1,300       3,040     4,410      6,750      8,400      8,400       8,400       1,400
3b                -          280        580      1,980      3,100     4,200       4,200      4,200      4,200      4,200         -
3c                -           40        133        400        887     1,540      1,993       2,800      2 800      2 800       1 4-'O
Total                           30                  1,353      3,680 7,027 10,150              12,93      15,0                  1 400                                150,000
Beans & Other Pulses  2                510       1,450      3,180       5,880      9,360    12,830     12,870     12,510     11,860      186                                   56,00o4/
Alfalfa               3a                -          -          320       1,040      2,560     4,560      7,120     10,000      11,200     11,200
3b                _          _          -          800      2,400      4,000      4,800      4,800      4,800      4, 800 
3c                _          _          _          107        480     1'067       1 707      2 613      3,200      3,200 2
Total                        _ _                      320      197         5,440     9,627     17                 17            19200                                    N/A
Bananas & Tree Fruit  3a                _          _           -          160        360       920      1,360      2,200       2,800      2,800        _                                   _ o'
3b                _          _          _          _          400        800      1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200         -
3c                                                 -            53       187        347        507        800         800        _
Total                              _       -                      160 *o                                                           .19 07o 2,907  3,97                   ,oOO6,0
Note: N/A - not available.  Figures in parenthesis are volume decreases
j  Model 1 = low rainfed; Model 2 = high rainfed
3/ Sorghum & Millet
3/ All the major cereal crops
P/ Pulses



YEIB ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHER  UPLUDS RURAL DZVNLOPMNT PROJECT
YAR Aggregate Supply - Demand ProJections for Grain. Pulses. Vegetableo & Pot toes
Fiscal  Project Total Domestic Domestic Production  Country Deficit          Project Area       % of Domestic        Projeoct Area       % Of Domestic   Project area       Project Area
Year    Year        Dmamnd          v/o Project         w/o Project    Incremental Production Production Wo  Incr   otal Froduction  Prodaction w/o Base Produotion   Base Production
(Assumption 3 a)       Project          MA ioiipth:  3 b)       Project      (Assumption 3 a)  (Assumption 3 b)
- -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - '000 tons sorghum equivalent - -
1972/73               1400              1273                 127
73/74               1444              1286                 158
74/75               1488              1298                 190
75/76    1          1535              1312                 223                   1                  O.1                 1                    049
76/77    2          1582              1325                 257                   5                  0.4                 5                    0.4
77/78    3          1632              1338                 294                  11                  0.8                 13                   1.0
78/79    4          1682              1351                 331                  20                  1.5                27                    2.0
79/80    5          1735              1365                 370                  29                  2 1                44                    3.2
80/81    6          1789              1378                 411                  39                  2.8                63                    4.6
81/82    7          1844              1392                 452                  41                  2.9                 76                   5.5
82/83    8          1902              1406                 496                  42                  3.0                 88                   6.3
83/84    9          1961              1420                 541                 41                   2.9                 94                   6.6
Assumptions: 1) Demand Forula: Qt - Qo (1 + P)t(1 + ni)                   -
Qt - domestio demand in year t (production - exports + irports)
Qo - domestic demand in year 0 (1972/73)                                                           Qo - 1400
P  - population growth rate (estimate)                                                              P - 0.025
n  - el aticity of cereal, pulse, vogetable and potato demand with respect to income (estinte)   n   0.6
G  - real income growth rate (assumAption)                                                          G - 0.01
2) Supplys Growth rate of 1% per year without project. (assumption)
3) a) On the basis of calorie equivalence, tonnages of grain and pulses may be added together to get "oorghum equivalent  tons".
On the same basis, a ton of potatoes is approximately equivalent to 1/5 ton of sorghum, and a ton of vegetable to 1/15 ton
of sorghum. Total domestic demand and aupply projeotions are calculated on this basis.
b)  Potatoes and vegetables (onions) will boex ported to fetch their own weight in sorghum for domestic consumption.
(The project wuuld help provide large soale export capability to the country through pilot storage, packing -nd
handling facilities and better export uarket information through the marketing/agroindustries consultant.)
4) Project area incremental produotion figures exclude tree frait and alfalfa.



ANNEX 6
Table 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YAR Imports and Exports
1969/70                 1972/73
Quantity      Value     Quantity      Value
(YRlstOOO)     (tn)     (Ts 000)
Imports
Food and Live Animals                             84,834                  176,337
Cereals and Cereal Preparation    68,658       34,h25       127,454      74,313
Fruit and Vegetables                            5,343                    18,625
Sugar and Sugar Products                       31,088                    40,832
Coffee, Tea and Spices                          5,418                    16,387
Others                                          8,560                    26,180
Chemicals                                         5,602                    25,774
Fertilizer                          2,284         526         1,158         386
Insecticides                          171         237           506       1,230
Others                               -4,839                              24,15B
Other Imports                                    76,193                   208,555
TOTAL                                 166.629                   hlO666
Exports
- Cotton                               -            -          3,397      10,785
Coffee                              1,828      10,218         1,407       5,469
Hides and Skins                     2,971       2,,459        1,809       3,325
Cotton Seeds                        2,500         501           697       2,036
Live Animals                          -           -           4,65o2/       768
Qat                                 2,024       3,438           145         247
Potatoes                            1,309         469           746         394
Fresh Fruits                          645         250           129         197
Others                                          1,988                     2,O08
TOTAL                                  19.323                    25.269
2/ Number of head
Source: Central Bank Annual Report (1972/73)
June 5, 1974



ANNEX 7
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Employment Benefits
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rate of return for the project's directly productive
components is 23% based on the assumptions listed below. If costs increase
by 10%, the rate of return goes down to 19% while a 20% decrease in the value
of output results in a return of 12%. If both occur simultaneously, the
project would have a rate of return of 7%, which is still acceptable.
2.        The rate of return for the project including all costs (except
family labor) is 19%. These favorable ROR projections are primarily due to
the expected high yield response to the application of even relatively simple
inputs like fertilizer, to the nutritionally depleted soils of one of the
oldest agricultural land in the world. The cost and benefit streams are
listed in Table 1 by major component. All cost computations are in 1974
constant terms.
3.        Calculations (23%) were based on the following assumptions:
(a) Output Prices - Sorghum, maize, beans, bananas and alfalfa
would be consumed within the country while potatoes and onions
would be exported. Bank commodity price projections in con-
stant terms adjusted to CIF prices Hodeida were used to esti-
mate the value of maize and sorghum production under the proj-
ect. The same method was used for bananas, except that the
resulting CIF price Hodeida was reduced by US$40/ton to account
for the quality difference between local and export quality
bananas. Since no projections were available for beans and
alfalfa, prices were derived from their present relationship
to the price of sorghum in the country. It was assumed that
their prices would remain constant relative to that of sorghum.
Since potatoes and onions would be exported, they were valued
at farmgate prices. This was derived by reducing the country's
potato export price and Egyptian onion export prices. The
resulting prices for Year 1 of the project were then adjusted
again for subsequent years to maintain the same price relative
to sorghum.
(b) Labor - Hired labor (usually skilled) was valued at prevailing
wage rates while family labor was shadow-priced to zero to
reflect the dearth of productive employment alternatives.
(c) Exchange Rate - The prevailing exchange rate of YRls 4.50 to
US$1.00 was used for all calculations. This has been a fairly
stable, market-determined exchange rate.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(d) Farm Inputs and Investment - Incremental inputs and on-farm in-
vestments were valued at retail price to the farmer.
(e) Rural Works, Project Facilities & Equipment- Only the costs
of components which were not directly productive - village
water supply systems and land protection - were excluded from
the rate of return calculations.
(f) Technical Services - All the costs of technical services were
included except for half of the salaries of project unit staff
(aside from the extension service) from Years 10-20. It was
assumed that from Year 10 onwards, SURDU staff would be devot-
ing an increasing amount of their time to areas outside the
present project. All the costs of CARS have been included in
the basic ROR calculation.
(g) Fellowships and Other Studies - The costs of the rural health
component and studies to be undertaken outside the project area
were excluded from the rate of return calculations.
(h) Time Period - The project was assumed to have a 20-year life,
beginning 1975.
Employment Benefits
4.        During the six-year implementation period, the project would gen-
erate on the average 800 man-years of employment annually through the con-
struction of rural works and buildings. An additional eighty man-years would
be generated by maintenance activities that would be sustained even beyond
the project implementation period. At full development, 1,400 man-years
more of hired labor would be required by participating farms due to increased
intensity of cultivation and resulting higher yields. Additional family labor
employment that would be generated is estimated to at least equal the addi-
tional hired labor required. Employment would also be generated indirectly
through packaging and handling facilities and increased trade and transport
resulting from the widespread use of agricultural inputs and more marketable
surpluses. Additional family labor employment that would be generated is
estimated at 8,000 man-years annually at full development.
5.        The principal beneficiaries of the employment creation aspect of the
project at the farm level would be the landless laborers and part-time farmers
tilling farms of less than 1 ha. who form most of the poorest segment of the
population of the project area.
6.        The employment estimates were based on the following assumptions:
(a)  250 man-days/man-year;
(b) wages of YRls 5/day for farm labor and YRls 10/day for construc-
tion labor;



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(c) labor accounts for 80% of the local cost component of rural works
and 50% of buildings and staff houses;
(d) maintenance of rural works, offices and staff houses would result
in an annual wage bill of YRls 200,000:
(e) based on the farm models, increased hired labor per farm would be
as follows:
Model No.                  4itional man-days/year
1                                0
2                                22
3a                                9
3b                               35
3c                               35
(f) estimates of increased f aily labor employment per farm model
are shown below:
Model No.                 Additional man-days/year
1                              100
2                               80
3a                              150
3b                              260
3c                              260



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Cost-Benefit Table
YEAR
0         1         2          3         4         5          6         7          8         9          10-20
---------------------------- ---us$ '000---------------------------------- ------------------------
Project Benefits
Sorghum                                               -        80          250       590         1,000     1,470     1,880    1,810      1,550       1,090       1,090
Maize                                                 -        20          220       47o           680       700        780      820        930      1,150       1,150
Potatoes                                              -        -            30        90           300       600        970    1,490     2,090       2,570       2,570
Onions                                                -         -          '60       170           440       780      1,060    1,350     1,60D       1,600       1,600
Beans                                                 -        80          230       48o           850     1,290      1,690    1,700     1,650       1,570       1,570
Alfalfa                                               -         -          -          10            40       110        170      240        320        340         340
Bananas                                               _        _                                    20       110        260      400        530        650          5 0
GROSS BENEFITS                        _                       180          790         0         3,330     5,060      6,810    7,810      8,670      8,9570      8, 
Project Costs
Farm Inputs and Investment
Fertilizer                                                  60          170       340           570       830     1,170    1,266      1,390       1,390       1,390
On-farm investments and other inputs               -        30          290       580         1,000     1,540      2,220    2,440      2,920      3,330       3,330
Rural Works
Feeder roads                                               220          860       860           860       560       -                      
Irrigation canal lining                                                 200       200           210        -        -        -           -         -            -
Project Facilities and Equipment
Staff housing and offices                          -       210          460       190            -         -        -        -           -         -            -
Vehicles and equipment                             _       270           50       160           250        80        150      120        100         80          40
Operation and maintenance                          _        40           50       100           120       170        180      160        150        140         110
Technical Services
Technical assistance                              _        520          580       54o           550       480        380       -         -          -           -
National staff                                    _        230          260       320           360       370        370      370        24o        240         140
(*RS 1/.                                          660       710         430       380           170
Fellowships                                          _         -            30        30            30        30       -
TOTAL COSTS                                          660    2 290        3 380     3 700         4 120     4,o6o      4          3507o    4 800      5,180       5 010
N~ET NE?(~FIT S~MAM                                 (m)   (2,110)       (2m)   (1t ,0)             790)    3,000,   (70  3 )                          ,
Economic Rate of Return!    23%
Plus 10% costs           19%
Less 20% benefits        12%
Plus 10% costs, less .
20% benefits          7%
Including all costs
(except family
labor)            1nd
Funded by UNDP and the Govt. of YAR






'  tMh4 *   -1   ,: ~   ~       ~      ~     ~      44                                                                                d
: 1 rgz   X ;\rl  -~ SYEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
S AUDI A RA B I A                     SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
7                                                                     Progec-= t .I.r  Area
~~~'  /  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                     -       ~~~~~P-ved  Prin,ary Roads
___ _U,,poved  Gro,,el Primary  Roads
L Z ~~~~~*   D ; l  .2,                                                          '___'_"
\~~~~~~->%r                                                                 Pr~~~~~~~~~~~rn:~~-ry  Ruid, Unlder  Construction
~~~ fsere,i~~~~~~~~~~~f  (                                                       ~~~~~4  Notion1 Capitol
,S A             D ,A     H.                                0       Cities, Tonrs and Villages
I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wad,s
Sodah                --500    Contours in Meters
>                                     ( 00  /~2x)              -i                         + 5 1 \   ,    *  Internmotool Airports
-                 -                              Provincial ~~~~~~Boundaies
>1~~~~~~~ f                                                                               ei i                  i  -> <g.- ,  * \__   Oro International  Boundcreis
' ' ;      ' X'        n< t  .' 53   o o '         '0   U                    &X 'i '    .
t:  t"   t C :; ;0 i  00  Wp  .    47-1 f--20 T.                                                                                                 s ,to 5o
: if i 0   i;    0  X .!  10   ' X  Nlo"    '\ l    ~'. I,                                                                         K L _.
;~~~~~~~~us                                                                        --                                        0  ;0 ei      \$           s0fhne  20 4 0  60      )
0 0 0 ; ;; C                                                ) rf      , -rI                -                ,                     I__  ___MILES   6u__
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Pin                                                         i ;0 =rco :--                 t0  .J   .       -    A  :   , K.
: ~ ~  ~    ~                        -                 I                      BQAvrid   Lr.I   :mis90 .      ,         \Nrr 
K.                )                         E      :,                                           PE OPLE 'S   DBEMOC R A TIC   R E PU B LIC   OPF   Y EM B N
or-    2   T                    ,      iah      L)          u     ; 1J  O
ETHIOP~~~~~~~~~,Do: A 
/   .                                      ~~~~~~GULF       OF         AVOEN
/\ 
/   F.TeA.1.
44                                                                              6
//~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2                                                                                  4540     O    : 0       10 0:  :i






IBRD 11053
JU5Y 974
Badan                                                                                                                                            YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
R, O   5   eSouthern  Uplands Rural Development Project
LAND USE, ROADS, TOWNS AND VILLAGES
ic Bda                                                                                                                                                          -, Project roads new
Are a
3 Area  r 3                                                                                                                                           =Pr- Project roads for upgrading
0P@\      O O   o    O  V    0         4                                                                                                                 - Existing main roads
A0Hadidi       00000  0    0   2 /)             4 0                                        r                                                                                  Other roads
00  AIHodioi  0~~~~~~~~~~~~9                             l .d,
. 2     .0  r ,:   oOOo  c*9:0AsHadorl        Wcldi                                                                                    (t   Provincial capitals
N-Villa : -.es
-    0  0   I M                           04                         kh
r-      GebeBsorat    o                ZMn5<       iblath aa    0   %   -        a        h 0jL *         0                      
472o         Sahoul Area                                                       Thisufol
t-cy                   ~~~Sheban           ~       F         l                                O                OO
? Area sfano 0-o        ><    ,ec    e   o   pc   o  4 to0 BYe
ioe,.2U00 fl222U220, 0.22v2.22s.>   2g@ *........., Komsf  2222 022  HaiAse{eacOBn>Os 0000X
2. S22in                          aSO,,,,kh, 0252b2220,2,l, A    rea                                               Wa   io                                                                                        0  0   o         0
-- 2,erolo2noI so,do,   2, <                 r2d2 22,.fUsg 02020                                                                                   00   000f                      o    0o20 /Mi Dmdo sraSh               00 e                          0X                  0   00000,e        '
0   00XOoW;i         AAhubssHe                                                          0 oWdi    0 0 0d
, j   SAUDI  ARABIA                                  I ,                                                 7
;.2-0u      ugb* * ,  p.  ,,         5 a
,'FTJ AI.Ua\fS4   t 2m             dD.I   O ...    p.  tF e. .. ..                                   Hi :                                                                                                                                                             rb 
B-MAt.  -                                     22,`2 



