FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Feport No. P-1497a-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO .THE
YEMEN.ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR THE
SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 17, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The-Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY  EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =    YR 4.50 1/
YR 1                 US$0.22
YR 1,000             US$222
YR 1,000,000         US$222,222
Fiscal Year: July 1 to June 30
1/ No par value for the Yemen rial has yet been declared to the IIF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which is
based on the free market rate.



INTER4ATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR THE SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), for the equivalent of
US$10.0 million on sLandard IDA terms to help finance a rural development
project in the Southern Uplands region. A portion of the IDA Credit ($1.3
million) would be relent to the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) for fifteen
years including five years' grace, at an interest rate of I percent per
annum. The credit would be made jointly with a loan equivalent to US$10.0
million from the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development.
PART I - ThE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Development in the Yemen Arab Republic"
(R73-161), dated June 18, 1973, and based on the findings of an economic mis-
sion which visited the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) in September/October 1972,
was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 28, 1973. An economic
mission visited YAR in September 1974 and its findings are reflected in this
report. A country data sheet is attached in Annex I.
3.        The Republic was established in 1962, replacing the feudal rule of
the Imamate, under which Yemen had remained almost completely isolated from
the rest of the world. Lack of internal transport and communication facilities
has contributed to the continuing isolation of many parts of the country.
Since 1962, Yemen has suffered from a long civil war (1962-70) and a prolonged
drought which resulted in the recurrence of widespread famine and near famine
conditions. There were also repeated frontier clashes with the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen.
4.        Political integration has been hindered by-tribal differences.     The
end of the civil war left the tribal sheikhs in a stronger and more independent
position than before. This fragmentation of power, combined with the inade-
quacy of institutions and lack of trained cadres at the central government
level, has for many years hindered the government's ability to formulate
national economic objectives and carry out a working program of economic
development. Although attempts have been made to reduce political differ-
ences through the formulation of coalition governments, tribal differences
remain a major factor affecting political stability.
5.        Despite these problems, considerable progress has been made since
early 1970 in introducing basic elements of modern administration. With
significant technical assistance provided by the IMF, the Bank and the Kuwait
Fund, Yemen established a Central Bank in 1971, a Central Budget Bureau and
a Central Planning Organization in 1972. For 1973/74 the Government estab-
lished ics first formal budget. Moreover, a first Three-Year Development



-2-
Program, covering the period of 19i3/74-1975/76 was drafted, which defined
the general long-term development strategy for YAR as well as medium-term
development policies for the public sector. The project list contained in
the Program is confined to public sector projects.
6.        The long-term goals for economic development as expressed in the
Three-Year Program emphasize (a) the development of agriculture to achieve
self-sufficiency in food; (b) the expansion of the transport and communica-
tions infrastructure to improve economic and social integration; (c) educa-
tion and manpower development to secure the needs of Yemen's future develop-
ment efforts; and (d) government institution-building at the national as well
as at local levels. For the Program period, public sector development expend-
iture of about YR 936 million (approx. $208 million) is envisaged; of this,
31 percent has been allocated to transport and communications, 21 percent to
education and manpower development, 15 percent to agriculture, and 10 percent
each to industry and water supply.
7.        Due to widespread shortage of administrative and technical skills
and the scarcity of domestic development finance, the Development Program
rests almost entirely on foreign technical and capital assistance. About
75 percent of the project financing is expected to come from foreign sources.
However, since the planned contributions from the Government budget (19 per-
cent) are themselves mostly financed by external sources, the foreign share
in total financing is much greater.
8.        Yemen is among the ten least developed countries in the world.
Over 80 percent of its estimated 6.2 million people are engaged in subsis-
tence agriculture. Literacy is exceptionally low, estimated at about 10 per-
cent of the population. However, Yemen's population has some outstanding
traditional skills, especially in land cultivation practices and in house
construction. Although there are only about half a million Yemenis living
in urban areas, a pattern of urban migration is beginning to develop as is
migration abroad, notably to Saudi Arabia. Yemen's cities still lack basic
public services. Neither the capital, Sana'a, nor the port city, Hodeidah,
has mnunicipal water supply systems, and electric power supply is inadequate
and unreliable. While progress has been made in building a basic road net-
work and other transport facilities, Yemen remains extremely under-developed
in virtually every other form of economic and social infrastructure, and in
its institutional and manpower base.
9.        Another basic constraint to development is the country's narrow
resource base. In agriculture, which accounts for about two-thirds of GDP
and for virtually all of the meagre exports (notably cotton, coffee, and
hides and skins), development is seriously constrained by physical limita-
tions, particularly the erratic nature of rainfall and the uncertainty of
groundwater supplies. Food grains (sorghum, millet, barley and wheat) for
local consumption are the principal crops; only modest quantities of cash
crops (cotton, coffee, qat) are produced. Agriculture is predominantly de-
voted to rainfall-dependent grain production, and as a result of the prolonged



- 3 -
drought conditions, it has been meeting a decreasing share of domestic needs.
Thus, food imports, in part provided through emerging relief operations, grew
dramatically from YR 116 million in 1970 to almost YR 290 million in 1973,
constituting about half of total recorded imports.
10.       Yemen has little known mineral resources.   Only rock salt has been
exploited so far. Unlike most countries of the Arabian Peninsula, Yemen has
no known oil resources, but oil explorations are currently under way. Due to
the scarcity of natural resources, but also because of the small domestic
market, industry was virtually non-existent until the late 1970's. Since
then a number of medium-sized, import-substitution plants have been estab-
lished, mostly with bilateral assistance. They include a textile mill, a
cement factory, a cigarette factory and other plants producing light con-
sumer, manufactures and construction materials. Their overall production,
however, still represents less than 1 percent of GDP.
11.       Economic developments in recent years have remained overshadowed
by the drought-inflicted poor performance of the agricultural sector. De-
spite the rapid expansion, from extremely low levels, of private and public
services and of industrial activities, GDP at constant prices probably grew
at less than 4 percent a year during 1970-1973, as agriculture remained stag-
nant. The growth of non-agricultural activities was facilitated by sizeable
inflows of capital and skills from abroad provided by both displaced and re-
turning Yemenis (mainly from Ethiopia) and large injections of foreign aid in
support of current and capital expenditure. Moreover, urban growth has been
supported by large private remittances from possibly over half a million
Yemenis working abroad; the workers' remittances were estimated at approxi-
mately $100 million in 1973.
12.       The large inflow of remittances from Yemenis abroad and the for-
eign cash loans and grants (1973/74: $28 million) for budgetary expenditure,
which were partly used to finance current expenditure, contributed to rising
foreign assets and to an increasing inflationary pressure on domestic re-
sources. Consumer prices in YAR are estimated to have increased by over 30
percent in 1973 (over 40 percent in Sana'a), and by probably 25 percent in
1974. Higher prices for imported commodities also contributed to domestic
price increases. With respect to the recent sharp rises in international
oil prices it appears, however, that YAR has, for the time being, been only
moderately affected, as other oil-rich Arab States extended to Yemen special
price and supply arrangements, including the delivery of petroleum products
free of charge.
13.       Yemen's budgetary situation is extremely weak and vulnerable because
of the small tax base and the increasing dependency on foreign aid in financing
even current expenditure. Current revenues, based largely on customs duties,
amounted to only 73 percent of current expenditure in 1972/73 and to 85 per-
cent in 1973/74. The current deficit was reduced to YR 50 million in 1973/74
(from YR 73 million in the previous year), but mainly as a result of substan-
tial salary increases following the change in government in mid-1974, the
current budgetary deficit for 1974/75 is estimated to increase to YR 81 mil-
lion, equivalent to one-fifth of budgeted current expenditure. Foreign



budgetary support (mainly from Saudi Arabia) was equivalent to about one-third
of current expenditure in 1973/74 (22 percent in 1972/73), while development
expenditure continued to be financed almost entirely from foreign aid. For-
eign project and commodity aid averaged about YR 79 million (US$18 million)
during 1971/72-1973/74.
Reserves and External Debt
14.       The gross foreign exchange reserves of the Central Bank increased
substantiallv in recent years, reaching about US$153 million as of June 30,
1974. Of this amount, only US$83 million represented free reserves, the
balance being mainly blocked accounts with the Central Bank of Egypt. The
free reserves were equivalent to about eight months of estimated imports of
goods at the 1973 level. On December 31, 1974, total gross reserves were
approximately $190 million.
15.       The external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1974 was estimated
at US$339 million, of which US$138 million was undisbursed.   The major credi-
tors were: USSR, the People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of
Germany, Saudi Arabia, the Kuwait Fund and more recently, the Association.
Debt contracted with IDA accounted for p38.2 million or 11 percent of the
total reported debt. The USSR, and the People's Republic of China have
provided interest-free loans. Loans from Germany and the Kuwait Fund have
been at interest rates between 1.0 to 2.5 percent per year; other lenders
of relatively small significance in YAR's debt structure, have charged 4-6
percent per annum. The debt service for 1974 was estimated at US$12 million,
equivalent to about 10 percent of total exports of goods and services, includ-
ing workers' remittances in 1973/74. The available data indicate a sharply
rising trend in debt servicing obligations, estimated to reach US$20 million
in 1975 and US$23 million in 1976. Yemen has a very limited debt servicing
capacity. Since it is a least-developed country with an already high debt
burden, but offers opportunities for productive economic investment, Yemen
should be granted assistance in as concessionary a form as possible.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       The proposed credit wotuld be the Bank Group's sixth investment op-
eration in YAR, bringing total IDA commitments to about $48.2 million.    Annex
II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank grants and notes on
the execution of on-going projects, as of February 28, 1975.   In 1971, the
Bank made a grant of $200,000 to nlelp finance jointly with the Kuwait Fund
for Economic Development a team of planning and economic advisors.   The Exec-
utive Directors again approved in September 1973 a Second Bank grant of
$200,000 to make possible the continuation and expansion of the planning
team services.  The Government has recently requested the Bank and the Kuwait
Fund for Economic Development to expand their joint ongoing technical assist-
ance into the field of public administration.   This request is being consider-
ed and a mission visited Yemen in early Marclh to review the public administra-
tion system in the country. The Bank is also helping to build a strong



-5-
iiinistry of Agriculture through the provision of four advisors, financed by
the UNDP with the Bank serving as Executing Agency.
17.       The major focus of Bank Group activity has been to develop the
essential prerequisites for development: the basic institutions, skills
and physical infrastructure, and to begin lending in the dominant produc-
tive sector--agriculture. In June 1972, IDA extended a Credit of US$7.7
million equivalent for a Liighway Project. The project has helped create
a national Highway Authority, provided equipment for road maintenance and
feeder road contruction, and financed feasibility studies and detailed
designs of important highway links. An important secondary road from Taiz
to Turba will also be constructed under the project. In May 1973, the
Association made a US$10.9 million Credit for the Tihama Agricultural
Development Project which will help finance the development of surface and
groundwater irrigation works at tqadi Zabid in the Tihama (coastal) region,
the introduction of a Tihama Development Authority and institutions for ag-
ricultural credit, extension and research, training and a major soils and
groundwater survey of the Wadi Mawr region. The project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The Kuwait Fund is financing US$6.0 million of project costs. A
US$11.0 million Credit for an Education Project was approved in July 1973.
The project is an integrated program of assistance with the UNDP (UNESCO,
FAO, ILO), Federal Republic of Germany and United Arab Emirates, and will
help meet the most immediate needs of the educational system. It will con-
centrate on improving and expanding teacher training and secondary school
education and establish the country's first vocational and agricultural
training institutions and non-formal basic education centers. A $2.3 mil-
lion Credit for the Industrial Estate Project was approved on January 29,
1974. This project is designed to help stimulate investment in modern small-
scale industry and provide a model and pattern for future industrial develop-
ment. On tne samie day a $6.25 million Credit for the Sana'a Water Supply
Project was approved. This project will provide Sana'a with its first ade-
quate public water supply system. It also helped in creating a competent na-
tional organization to administer the country's water and sewerage systems.
18.       Future Bank Group activity will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation, agri-
culture and public utilities; and continue to help devise an appropriate
development strategy and investment program including special project iden-
tification and preparation work. Project preparation activity is advanced
for future projects in Hiighways and Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage which
were appraised in November 1974, and in January 1975, respectively. Port
development, education, agricultural credit, etc., are still in the planning
stage. The 13ank Group's lending strategy recognizes that Yemen is among the
poorest of the 25 least-developed countries and thus requires special assist-
ance, which justifies IDA financing of a high percentage of project costs,
including local expenditure.



-6-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
19.       Agriculture is YAR's principal economic sector, contributing about
two-thirds to GDP and employing over 80 percent of the working population.
Although the sector consists primarily of centuries-old subsistence-based
farming, it provides nearly 90 percent of national export earnings. Cotton,
coffee, hides and skins are the major agricultural exports. In calendar year
1973, cotton and cotton seed accounted for 56 percent and coffee for 17 per-
cent of the total export value (about US$7.4 million). Despite the predominance
of the agricultural sector, YAR is unable to feed its own population, and food
imports, nearly half of which were cereals, accounted for 50 percent of the
total import value.
20.       The nature and structure of the agricultural sector have remained
basicallv unchanged for centuries. YAR has a total cropped area of 1.5 mil-
lion ha, of which 225,000 ha (15 percent) are at least partially irrigated
from wells, perennial springs or periodic valley floods. Over 90 percent of
the cropped area is devoted to sorghum, maize and millet, yielding on the
average 800 kg/ha.
21.       The country is divided by topography and rainfall into five major
zones: (a) the coastal belt of Tihama - rainfed millet is the staple food
and irrigated cotton is the main cash crop in this region - cattle are also
raised there; (b) the western slopes - sorghum is the staple food crop and
coffee the main cash crop in this zone; (c) the central and southern uplands,
including most of the Taiz and Ibb provinces - sorghum is the staple food
crop in this area with coffee and qat as the main cash crops, the-proposed
project is located in this region; (d) intermontane plains - sorghum, barley
and wheat are grown in this part of the country, there is also considerable
sheep and goat husbandry; and (e) the eastern slopes where rainfall is mar-
ginal - millet is the main crop in this area besides camel raising. In all
five zones, a variety of fruits and vegetables as well as maize are grown.
22.        In the low-rainfall Taiz area the majority of farms are owner-
cultivated by owners, whereas in the larger high-rainfall Ibb area the majority
of farmers are operated by tenants. However, most farms in both areas are
small; the average holding being about 3 ha in Taiz and 1.5 ha in Ibb. Small
farms under 1 ha cover over 10 percent of the cultivated area in Taiz, re-
presenting about 60 percent of the number of farms; in Ibb the proportions
are 17 percent and 50 percent respectively. Government levies a 10 percent
production tax (Zakat). The most frequent crop-sharing pattern is 10 percent
for the Zakat, 60-65 percent to the tenant and 25-30 percent to the landlord,
with the latter's share increasing up to 68 percent in the case of investment
in irrigation and tree crops. Usually, the tenant bears all costs of agri-
cultural inputs. The present land tenure and sharecropping arrangements are
not considered an obstacle to farm improvements in the short term. Nonethe-
less, it was agreed that in the context of the proposed project the Government
would take appropriate measures to ensure that landlords share in the cost of
inputs with the tenants proportionally to the current crop-sharing pattern
(Section 4.05, draft Development Credit Agreement).



-7-
23.       Except for cotton growing, farmers have no access to institutional
credit. Cotton production is financed through the Yemen Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development's (YBRD) credit line to the Cotton General Company (CGC),
the Government-owned cotton marketing board which, in its turn, extends short-
term interest-free credit in cash and/or seeds to cotton growers. Other
farmers requiring credit to cover urgent family and agriculture needs borrow
from relatives or neighbors, or in some cases purchase on credit from merchants.
Neither farmers nor lenders admit paying or charging interest on such loans.
24.       In order to create an effective agricultural credit institution, an
Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) has recently been established under the Tihama
Development Project and is now functioning as a department of the Central
Bank. It will eventually be transformed into an independent institution.
Key personnel have been recruited and ACF's establishment is progressing
according to schedule.
25.       Despite the introduction on a limited scale in recent years of
modern agricultural inputs, such as groundwater pumps, farm machinery and
fertilizers, agriculture in YAR remains underdeveloped and its productivity
is among the lowest in the world. The major constraints to agricultural de-
velopment include: (a) poor natural resource endowments including low and
erratic rainfall which causes severe shortage of agricultural water supply,
and small per capita cultivable land area with little prospect for expansion;
(b) shortage of skilled manpower and effective institutions; (c) primitive
level of agricultural technology and infrastructure--feeder roads, etc.; and
(d) the existence of complex socio-economic structure inherent in a centuries-
old, basically tribal society.
26.       The Government's present development policy in agriculture centers on
the development of (a) increased food production for substitution of present
imports of cereals and meat, and (b) increased production of the main export
commodities, cotton and coffee. To achieve the first objective, the Northern
and Southern Uplands are being developed under a German-aided extension project
and a UNDP/FAO project, respectively; a veterinary service is being built up
with British aid; Kuwait is financing a sectoral study to identify livestock
investment projects; IDA is financing feasibility studies for 60,000 ha in
Wadr Mawr; Abu Dhabi is financing planning and reconstruction of the ancient
Marib Dam; and a feasibility study for developing the Ga el Hakl region is
being carried out under British technical aid. The second objective is being
pursued by an IDA-financed irrigation improvement project on 17,000 ha in
Wadi Zabid; feasibility studies to be carried out for Wadis Seham and Surdud;
a British-finaniced study for Wadi Ream; and the formulation by a FAO coffee
expert of a coffee investment project for increased production and improved
processing and marketing.
27.       There has been little public investment in the agricultural sector,
and virtually all such investment to date has been financed from external
sources, primarily the USSR, United Kingdom, German Democratic Republic, Abu
Dhabi, Federal Republic of Germay, UNDP/FAO, Kuwait Fund and IDA. Additional
technical assistance for groundwater and soils evaluation and crops research
is being offered by the United Kingdom, China and the United States.



-8-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
28.       Following a Bank economic mission to YAR in September 1972, the
proposed project was identified and prepared with the assistance of two
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program missions in May and September 1973. The proj-
ect was then appraised in March/April 1974. Negotiations were held in
Washington from February 18 to 21, 1975. The Yemen delegation was headed
by Mr. Moqbil, Deputy Chairman of CPO, and included Messrs. Alharazi, Alkhras,
Geghman, Mansoor and Al-Kabssi. Mr. Al-Nowaiss, Deputy Director General of
the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, also participated in these
negotiations in view of the co-financing arrangements proposed. A report
entitled "Appraisal of Southern Uplands Rural Development Project - Yemen
Arab Republic"' (687-YAR), dated April 4, 1975, is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
Project Description
29.       The proposed project would constitute YAR's first integrated rural
development effort and aims to improve the standard of living of some 21,000
farm families living in selected areas of the Southern Uplands within the
Ibb and Taiz Provinces. The proposed project would improve the nutritional
standards of these families by increasing the productivity of about 35,000
ha of farmland. The proposed project would also improve rural health by
reducing the incidence of waterborne diseases. Briefly, the proposed project
would include: (a) Agricultural Inputs and Investments: (i) short-term
credit to small farmers for purchase of fertilizer and other inputs; (ii)
medium and long-term credit for production wells, nurseries, orchards and
packaging and handling facilities; (iii) promotion of plant protection tech-
niques through the project extension service; (iv) multiplication and distri-
bution of high-yielding seeds developed by the Central Agricultural Research
Station (CARS); (b) Rural Works: (i) construction and upgrading of about
180 km of feeder roads; (ii) installation of about 90 village water supply
systems; (iii) irrigation and land protection works; (c) Project facilities,
vehicles and equipment including staff housing; (d) Technical services: (i)
expatriate experts for the project unit including part-time consultants who
would participate in the implementation of the proposed project; (ii) local
extension and counterpart staff; (iii) overseas fellowships for local staff;
(iv) funds required for the provision of molluscicides and equipment in
support of the World Health Organization (WIlO) rural health study in the
project area; and (e) Studies for the preparation of a second stage project
in Wadi Bana, El-Gened, Eryan and suitable adjacent areas. A Credit and
Project Summary is attached as Annex III, together with a map showing the
location of the proposed project areas.



-9-
Project Cost
30.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at about $23.2
million net of taxes, of which the proposed IDA credit would finance US$10
million. Another $10 million will be provided by the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab
Economic Development. IDA, together with the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic
Development, would finance the entire foreign exchange cost of $13.3 million,
and $6.7 million of local costs. The remaining balance of $3.2 million would
be financed by the Government of YAR ($1.1 million), the sub-borrowers' con-
tributions and ACF ($0.7 million), and in-kind contributions by farmers and
villagers benefitting from the feeder roads, village water supply, sewerage
and irrigation improvements ($1.4 million). The proposed credit, along with
the loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development would thus
finance about 86 percent of total cost.
Project Execution
31.       The proposed project would be implemented by the Southern Uplands
Rural Development Unit (SURDU), to be established under the Ministry of Agri-
culture (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Due to
a shortage of qualified nationals, SURDU would be staffed, until the completion
of the project, which is estimated at six years, with nine senior expatriate
experts: the Project Manager, an administrative and finance officer, a
credit officer (to be seconded from ACF), two senior extension agronomists,
a plant protection extension agronomist, a veterinarian, a livestock expert
and a senior civil engineer; and ten associate level expatriate experts, all
of whom would have local counterparts (Schedule S to the draft Development
Credit Agreement). These experts would be responsible both for project im-
plementation and for the training of their counterparts, who would take over
upon completion of the project (Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Additional experts would be provided as part-time consultants to
advise on and monitor: the farmer organization and land tenure, marketing
and agro-industries, groundwater development, seed potato production and
project evaluation over the six-year period. The establishment of SURDU and
the appointment of the Project Manager, on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA, would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section
6.01(b) and (c), draft Development Credit Agreement). The qualifications and
terms of employment for all the expatriate experts would be submitted to IDA
for approval (Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
32.       A Director General of the Ministry of Agriculture for Ibb and Taiz
would be the Co-Manager of SURDU. SURDU would also have a coordinating com-
mittee under the chairmanship of the Minister of Agriculture. Membership of
this Committee shall include senior officials representing the Central Planning
Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Finance, the Project Manager and the
Director of the Central Agricultural Research Station (CARS). The Committee
would serve as a coordinating body between SURDU and the various ministries
represented (Section 3.02(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). After the
six-year project implementation period, SURDU's coverage would be broadened
to include agricultural development of the whole Southern Uplands region.



- 10 -
33.       SURDU's main responsibilities include:   (a) organization and man-
agement of agricultural extension; (b) distribution of agricultural inputs
and organization of a supporting credit scheme in coordination with ACF;
(c) survey, design and supervision of construction of feeder roads, village
water supply systems, irrigation canal lining, land protection schemes, office
buildings and staff housing, as well as provision of technical support to ACF
for loans relating to production wells, orchards and the like; (d) initiation
and supervision of supplementary studies that would extend the project concept
beyond the present area, and coordination with other bilateral and multilateral
aid agencies (Schedule 5 to draft Development Credit Agreement). The Govern-
ment will: (i) ensure that the local population benefitting from feeder
roads, village water supply systems and irrigation schemes provided under the
project, would contribute about 30 percent of the local cost of construction
through either free labor, provision of materials or cash payments and that
the location and construction standards of these works would be determined by
SURDU and submitted to IDA for approval (Sections 3.07 and 3.08, draft
Development Credit Agreement); and (ii) operation and maintenance costs for
the villaRo water supply systems under this project would be borne by the
beneficiaries (Section 4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Extension Services
34.       The project's key function is agricultural extension.    An extension
force of about 20 field supervisors and about 180 extension agents would cover
21,000 farm families cultivating some 35,000 ha. The extension function would
consist of on-farm demonstration and year-round advice to farmers. The farmers
would also receive technical advice from the senior experts of SURDU and
CARS. In addition to the extension function, the agents would assist in the
allocation of agricultural credit, input distribution and possibly even im-
provement of rural health.
Agricultural Research and Training
35.       Agricultural research would be performed by CARS in Taiz and FAO
will post an average of 11 agricultural research and training experts to
operate CARS for four years from its initiation in July 1974. CARS would
also be responsible for preservice training of extension agents in courses
lasting from six to nine months which will be conducted by its own experts.
The estimated timetable calls for training by CARS of 30 extension agents in
1975 and 60 agents each in the following 3 years. SURDU would be responsible
for in-service training consisting of short courses and seminars. Fellowships
abroad both for specialized courses and degree-oriented training would be
awarded on basis of exceptional performance and development potential.
Credit
36.       ACF, which has been established in connection with the Tihama De-
velopment Project, would be the credit channel under the proposed project.
ACF would open two new offices, one in Taiz and the other in Ibb. The re-
gional field manager would be responsible for organizing both offices and
for implementing the credit operations under the project.



- 11 -
37.       The agricultural credit component of the project ($2.6 million)
would provide short-term loans ($1.5 million) for financing of current in-
puts, and medium and long-term loans ($1.1 million) for investment in on-farm
water development schemes and, on a limited scale, for plantation of nurseries,
orchards, coffee plantation and packaging and handling facilities. Farmers'
repayment of short-term loans would permit ACF to progressively build up a
revolving fund which would in due course allow ACF to operate without further
additional funding.
38.       ACF would receive the necessary funds from the Government in the
form of: (a) a loan of $1.5 million equivalent which would be provided by
the IDA/Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development financing of short-term
credit; and (b) a long-term loan of US$1.1 million equivalent which would
also be provided by IDA/Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development financing
of medium and long-term credit for on-farm investments. The terms of the
Government loans would be for a period of 15 years including 5 years' grace
at an interest rate of 1 percent per annum. In order to allow ACF to build a
reserve to cover exceptional losses due to periodic droughts in the project
area, it would establish a Special Drought Fund (SDF) in its accounts. ACF
will credit the SDF with amounts equivalent to: (i) 3 percent per annum of
the outstanding balance of the long-term loan made by the Government to ACF;
and (ii) 3 percent of the total cost to sub-borrowers of fertilizers provided
under the project (Schedule 4 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Should the Government, in consultation with IDA and the Abu Dhabi Fund for
Arab Economic Development, decide within three years of commencement of ACF's
operations that ACF would become an independent institution, the Government's
loan of US$1.5 million for short-term credit shall be transformed into Govern-
ment's equity in this new institution (Section 3.01(d) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
39.       The lending policies and procedures of ACF would be in accordance
with the Policy Statement originally drafted in connection with the Tihama
Development Project. This statement would be amended in order to cover ade-
quately the enlarged operations of ACF. The sub-borrowers would contribute:
(a) in the case of medium and long-term loans at least 20 percent of the
investment cost; (b) in the case of short-term input loans no less than .10
percent of the agreed retail price of the relevant input. Interest rates to
be charged by ACF would be reasonably in line with prevailing rates charged
by commercial Banks for similar loans, but not less than 9 percent per annum
for short-term loans and 8 percent per annum for medium and long-term loans
(Schedule 4 to the Draft Development Credit Agreement). Government feels
strongly that if interest rates were fixed at any higher level, the Yemeni
farmers would not use this credit facility. It is hoped that this proposed
project along with the Tihama project would provide examples of supervised
agricultural credit which is practically new to farmers in Yemen. This
potential benefit might be lost if the agricultural credit under these two
projects were not used because of a higher interest rate. Short-term input
credit would be extended to sub-borrowers in kind (principally fertilizers).
Medium and long-term loans in excess of US$50,000 equivalent would require
prior approval of IDA (Section 3.01(e), draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 12 -
Loan applications for medium and long-term loans would be appraised both by
SURDU's representative and ACF's staff. The maximum repayment period for
medium and long-term loans extended by ACF would vary according to the item
to be financed, between six and ten years, including one to four years' grace
(Schedule 4 to draft Development Credit Agreement). Not less than 75 percent
of loans for groundwater development would be extended to owner cultivators.
Consultation with SURDU's hydrogeologist on availability of adequate water
resources should take place prior to the extension of any such loan; and
preference would be given to loan applications originating from groups of
small farmers sharing in the investment cost and benefits (Section 4.03,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
40.        SURDU's accounts would be kept by its administrative officer.    Fur-
ther, ACF would maintain separate accounts for short-term and medium and long-
term loans under the project. All accounts maintained by SURDU and ACF would
have regular internal audits with annual audits carried out by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Develop-
ment. It was agreed that: (a) SURDU and ACF would maintain separate accounts
for proJect funds, which would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development; and
(b) a copy of each audit would be sent to IDA and the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab
_conomic Development within four months of the close of each fiscal year
S.-c,ion 4.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Environment and Health
41.        In addition to improving nutritional standards of farms, the proj-
ect vould provide some 90 village water supply systems that would help reduce
the incidence of waterborne diseases such as typhus and cholera. However,
tnese alone would not contribute immediately towards improving the rural
health situation, since most of the sources of bilharzia and malaria would
remain untouched. WHO has therefore been approached to do a feasibility
study recommending an integrated approach to health in the project area
that would, among other things, help combat any increased incidence of
bilharzia and malaria that might result from the projected increase inI ir-
rigated area. The proposed IDA credit includes supporting funds for the
purchase of molluscicides and other equipment to help carry out WI-O's re-
commendations.
Procurement
42.       Procurement of goods and materials would be made in small lots over
the six-year period of the project. They would therefore be unsuitable for
grouping and contracts would be too small to be of interest to foreign bidders.
Purchases of inputs, mainly fertilizer, would increase progressively over the
project period but the quantities required by year 9 wlhen the project is
fully developed are estimated to amount only to about 4,000 tons of urea,
2,800 tons of DAP and 600 tons of muriate of potash. Fertilizer and other
farm inputs would therefore be procured through negotiated purchases after
solicitation of quotations from reliable suppliers. Similarly, contracts



- 13 -
for village water supply, rural roads, small irrigation works and afforesta-
tion, estimated to cost a total of about US$5.5 million, construction of
staff houses, widely dispersed over the area of the project, estimated to
cost about US$800,000, and for administrative facilities and equipment,
estimated to cost about US$900,000, would be small in size and spread over
a period of years. Foreign suppliers of goods and materials are well re-
presented in the YAR, necessary service facilities are available, there are
no import quotas or other import restrictions, competition is keen and prices
are competitive. Contracts would therefore be placed on the basis of compet-
itive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
which are satisfactory to the Association. Qualified domestic civil works
contractors would be accorded a 7-1/2 percent preference when comparing bids
from foreign contractors. Purchases under the project will be exempt from
import duties. The expatriate experts to serve as project staff would be
recruited internationally, and it was agreed with the Government that their
qualifications and terms of employment would be approved by IDA (Section 3.03,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
43.       The project is expected to be completed over a six-year period.    The
proposed IDA credit of $10 million would be disbursed as follows:
(a) Short-term Agricultural Credit (US$750,000): Disbursement would
cover 50 percent of the incremental CIF cost of fertilizer pur-
chased by SURDU yearly.
(b) Medium and long-term Agricultural Credit (US$550,000): Disburse-
ment would cover 37.5 percent of medium and long-term loans
extended by ACF to project farmers.
(c) Rural Works (US$2.30 million): Disbursement would cover 42.5
percent of total costs.
(d)  Project Facilities and Equipment (US$1.30 million):   Disburse-
sement would cover 50 percent of total costs.
(e) Technical Services, Fellowships and Other Studies (US$2.40
million): Disbursements would cover 50 percent of the total
cost, with the exception of local staff salaries where dis-
bursement would cover 30 percent of the total cost.
(f) Unallocated (US$2.70 million): Represents physical and price
contingencies on all disbursement categories except on short
medium and long-term credit under (a) and (b) where contin-
gencies are directly included.
IDA would reimburse the Borrower for these costs upon receipt of full docu-
mentation except for expenditures related to local costs, which would be
disbursed against a statement of expenditures duly certified by auditors



- 14 -
acceptable to IDA and the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development. The
supporting documents would be retained by the executing agency and available
for review by project supervision missions. A projected disbursement sched-
ule is given in Annex III.
Economic Justification
44.       The proposed project would generate a significant increase in crop
production that would raise incomes and nutritional standards of about 120,000
people in the Southern Uplands, decrease YAR's food imports and increase ex-
ports of cotton and coffee. As a result of expansion in the network of feeder
roads, the transport costs will be lower even for non-agricultural products.
The proposed project would also create viable institutions and provide for
manpower training iin the field of agricultur&l extension and credit. The
project would increase substantially labor productivity and offer new em-
ployment opportunities in this region. The economic return for the project,
including all costs (except family labor), is estimated at 19 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
45.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab Re-
public and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the
resolution approving the proposed development credit are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
46.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest,
are referred to in paragraphs 22, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 38, 39, 40 and 41 of
this Report.
47.       Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreement provides the fol-
lowing additional conditions of effectiveness: (a) the execution and entry
into force of the Loan Agreement between the Abu Dhabi Fund and the Borrower;
(b) the establishment of the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU);
(c) the appointment of the Project Manager, and (d) the execution and delivery
of a subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the Central Bank.
48.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 15 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
49.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed de-
velopment credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
April 17, 1975
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3.pages
COU'TTTY DATA - YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AREA                          POPULATION                       DENSITY
Roughly 190,000 Eq. kIn       About 6.3 nillion (19y4 est.)    Roughly   30 per sq. km
no census
Rate of growth: 2.3    S
(i960-70)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS                            HEALTH
Crude birth rate : 49 per 1,000 (est.)                Population per physician : 26,000
Infant mortality : 160 per 1,000 live births (est.)                (197I)
Life  expectancy : About Lo-h5 years (est.)           Population per hospital
bed (19Th)      : 1,600
Widespread endemic and epidemic
diseases, particularly water-borne
diseases (bilharzia, worm diseases)
NUTRITION                               EDUCATION
Widespread malnutrition and             Literacy rate                : roughly 10 percent
protein deficiency, especially        Primary school enrollment    : 182,000 (1973/7h)
anong children                        Secondary school enrollment : 13,000 (1973/7)
GNP PER CAPITk  IT 1972 : $140
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE  (1973 est.)          % of Domestic        %of Labor Force
Factor Income
Agriculture                                 67                80-85
Industry                                     6               About 1
Services                                     27              1h-19
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YR million)   1970/71   1971/72    1972/73   1973/74   197h/75
Current revenue                      98       151        199       274       339
Current expenditure                 171       228        272      lz4        419
Current balance                     -73       -77        -73       -5°       -Bi
Development expenditure2/             82      _           57       1 9
Overall balance                    -156       -133      -130      -189
Domestic financing                    37       -38        13       -32       n.a.
Kxternal financing                  119       171        117       250       n.a.
Discrepancy                           -         -         -         29
l/  Budget estinate
2/ Equivalent to foreign project and commodity aid



-ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
MONEY AND CREDIT (YR million, end of period)
1971     1972     1973     June 1973     June 1974
Money suppJ.y                276.9    402.3    531.8       471.3         612.0
Quasi money                   35.7     80.6    105.1       113.6         117.5
Credit to private sector      70.0    119.8    169.5       168.6         230.1
Net claims on Government     110.1    115.9    135.2       116.2          84.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (SDR million)
1970     1971     1972     1973
Exports (adjusted)             5.8      6.4      6.3      7.4
Imports (adjusted)           -88.4    -72.1    -94.3   -130.0
Balance of trade             -82 26    -.7     -8T .O  7-12T2.6
Services and workers'
remittances (net)          45.0     47.0     74.6     90.9
Commodity and cash grants     17.7      5.7     17.3     19.5
Balance in current acsount   -19.9    -13.0      3.9    -12.2
Non-monetary capita] 1/       29.9     29.5     20.7     26.4
Increase in reserves          10.0     16.5     24.6     14.2
of which with Central
Bank of Yemen               (6.2)   (14.1)   (18.5)   (14.1)
I=2CHANDISE EXPORTS (recorded for 1969-73) 2/
Average          Percent
YR Million
Co-tton                        6.7                29.9
Coffee                         6.4                28.6
Hides and skins                3.2                14.3
Qat                            2.2                 9.8
Others                         3.9                17-4
TOTAI                   22.4               100.0
EXTERNAL BETrT, June 30, 1974                         US $ Million
Extc.inal public debt outstandirci                        338.8
of wthich : disbursed                                200.7
Debt service payments 1274                                 12.2
Ratio of debt service to 1973/74 exports
of goods and services, including
remittances                                           10%
1/   Includes SDR allocations and errors and omissions
2/    Only an estimated 50-60 percent of total export is recorded



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
1/
RATE OF EXCHANGE             IBRD/IDA LENDING
(as of February 28, 1975)
Through February 1973                                         US$ Million
IBRD      IDA
US$1 = YT 5
YR 1 = US$0.20          Outstanding and disbursed                 2.5
Undisbursed                       _      35-7
Since February 1973          Outstanding incl. undisbursed     -      38.2
US$1 = YR 4.50
YR 1 = US$0.22
E:MENA
April 17, 1975
1/ -No par value for the Yemen rial has yet been declared to the 2MF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the CentrRl Bank rate which is
based on the free market rate.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of February 28, 1975 - US$ Million)
Credit                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Number  Year        Borrower         Purpose          IDA              Undisbursed
315    1972  Yemen Arab Republic    Highways          7.7                 6.4
376    1973  Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agri-     10.9                 9.9
culture
421    1973  Yemen Arab Republic    Education        11.0                10.9
464    1974  Yemen Arab Republic    Water Supply      6.3                 6.2
465    1974  Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial        2.3                 2.3
Estate
Total                                       38.2                35.7
Of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                       38.2
Total undisbursed                                               35.7
Note. Exchange adjustment not included.
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of February 28, 1975)
IFC has made no investments in YAR.
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent was approved by the Executive
Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team of
five advisors has helped establish tlhe Central Planning Organization (CPO)
whlich is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The CPO is perhaps the most dynamic and active
public sector organization in Yemen. The Executive Directors approved on
September 11, 1973 a Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent to make possible the
continuation of the planning team. The Government has recently requested the
Kuwait Fund for Economic Development and the Bank to expand their joint on-
going technical assistance into the field of public administration. This
request is being considered and a mission visited Yemen in early March to
review the public administration system in the country.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
D.   Projects in Execution -
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; US$7.7 million Credit of June 26, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976.
The Yemen Government established a llighway Authority in November
1972, appointed as its Director a competent and experienced civil engineer
and appointed three engineering firms for consulting services: technical
assistance, feasibility studies and supervision of construction. The feasi-
bility studies have been completed, as well as the detailed engineering,
including bidding documents of the two selected roads. After satisfactorily
completing phase I technical assistance services (data collection, recommenda-
tion on reorganization and work program) the working relations between the
Highway Authority and the consultants gradually deteriorated and the contract
was terminated in July 1974, on mutual agreement. Negotiations for engagement
of new consultants are in progress. Construction of the Taiz-Turba road has
been delayed, because of the six bids received, four foreign bids were for
amounts more than double the appraisal estimate, and in excess of the construc-
tion costs current at the time of bidding, while two domestic bidders, offer-
-ilg acceptable prices, were found lacking required experience, staff and equip-
,ment. All bids were rejected and the Government and Association agreed that
,he road be constructed by the Highway Authority under supervision of the
c_.s'.Stltants.  The lHighway Authority acquired necessary equipment under the
Government advance payment, and is employing foreign managerial and technical
staff to assist in this construction. The work started in March 1975, and
is scheduled to be completed in two years.   The road maintenance and construc-
tion equipment, engineering equipment and spare parts have been ordered, and
delivery is expected to be completed in 1975.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; US$10.9 million Credit of ttay 2, 1973;
Closing Date:  Jane 30, 1978.
The Development Credit was declared effective on September 4, 1973.
The Tiha)m, Development Authority, responsible for project execution, was set
up and t.o advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end of 1973.
Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed designs of
four preliminary works contracts, of which three have already been awarded to
local contractors.  Engineernrig designs and contract documents for the first
of the two main civil works coi.t-acts were recently completed, are under
review, and will be issued during .A.pril 1975 to international contractors;
documents for the second are due for issue by December 1975. The Agricul-
tural Credit Fund was legally established towards end of 1974. The Credit
Manager and the Field Manager for the ACF have been appointed and work is
progressing satisfactorily. A cost overrun of about US$17 million or 100
percent over the estimated cost at the time of appraisal, is envisaged.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read ifi this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project executions.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
CR. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; US$11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Development Credit was declared effective on April 10, 1974.
The Government has appointed the five expatriate members of the Project Unit,
which is performing satisfactorily. Several members of the UNDP financed
Task Force are also in the field. Procurement of equipment and books for the
nine existing schools is underway. The Consultant Architects for the project
have been appointed and sites for the project institutions have also been
selected. In April 1975 a Bank mission will visit Sana'a to review the
special studies prepared by the Task Force on non-formal and secondary
education.
CR. No. 464-YAR - Water Supply Project: US$6.25 million Credit of March
4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The Development Credit was declared effective on July 15, 1974.
Tenders for the principal contracts were opened mid-January and are being
evaluated by the consultant and the National Water and Sewerage Authority
(NWSA). Award of contracts is expected to be made in early May 1975. Good
progress has been made in recruiting staff for the newly-established NWSA and
for operating the existing Sana'a water facilities. Project implementation
has been delayed by several months, following delays in preparation of final
design and tender documents. The Government has decided to meet the cost
overruns of about $3.5 million for this project from its own resources.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; US$2.3 million Credit of
March 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The Development Credit was declared effective on November 27, 1974.
The Advisor to the Director General has been appointed and is now in the field.
The Industrial Engineer has been also appointed and will arrive in Yemen in
June 1975. The project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The
Director General has returned to Yemen after completion of a very useful
training program. The consulting engineers are in the process of preparing
a detailed masterplan, the project designs and the tender documents. They
will also supervise the construction. The project is proceeding on schedule.
EMENA
April 17, 1975






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC - SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:        US$10 million equivalent
Terms:         Standard
Project        The proposed project would constitute YAR's first integrated
Description:  rural development effort and aims to improve the standard of
living of some 21,000 farm families in the project area. The
proposed project would increase the income and improve the nu-
trutional standards of these families by increasing the produc-
tivity of about 35,000 ha of farmland. It would also improve
rural health by reducing the incidence of waterborne diseases.
(a) Agricultural inputs and investments
(i) Short-term credit to small farmers for purchase
of fertilizer and other inputs;
(ii)  Medium and long-term credit for production wells,
nurseries, orchards, packaging and handling
facilities;
(iii) Promotion of plant protection techniques; and
(iv)  Multiplication and distribution of high-yielding
seeds.
(b) Rural works
(i) construction and upgrading of 180 km of feeder roads;
(ii) installation of 90 village water supply systems;
(iii) irrigation and land protection works.
(c) Project facilities including equipment, vehicles and
staff housing
(d) Technical services
(i) expatriate experts including part-time consultants;
(ii)  local extension and counterpart staff;
(iii) overseas fellowships for local staff; and
(iv)  funds for providing molluscicides in support of the
WHO study in the project area.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(e) Studies for the preparation of a second stage project
in Wadi Bana, El-Gened, Eryan and suitable adjacent areas.
Estimated Cost (net of taxes):                       US$ '000
Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total  Component %
Short-term Credit for Fertilizer and
Other Inputs                              70   1,400    1,470      95
Medium and long-term Credit for On-farm
Investments                              340     800    1,140      70
Rural Works                              2,880   2,560    5,440      47
Project Unit Facilities and Equipment      970   1,470    2,440      60
Technical Services                       2,200   2,750    4,950      56
Miscellaneous Costs                         40     310      350      89
Base Costs                               6,500   9,290   15,790      59
Contingencies:
(a)  Physical (7.7%)                 570     650     1,220      53
(b)  Price (47%)                   2,790    3,400    6,190      55
TOTAL COSTS                              9,860  13,340   23,200
Financing Plan:
US$ '000
Local   Foreign    Total
IDA Credit                            3,330    6,670    10,000
Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab
Economic Development                3,330    6,670    10,000
Government of YAR                     1,070      -       1,070
Sub-borrowers' Contribution             370      -         370
ACF (reinvestment of IDA/Abu
Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic
Development)                          370      -         370
Contribution in kind by Rural
Population and Communities          1,390      -       1,390
9,860   13,340    23,200
Estimated Disbursements:
FY        1976   1977   1978   1979    1980   1981   1982     Total
(US$ millions)
0.40   1.55   2.25   2.05    1.80   1.60   0.35     10.0
Cumulative     0.40    1.95  4.20    6.25   8.05   9.65  10.00     10.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement         Procurement of goods and materials would be made in small
Arrangements:       lots over the six-year period of the project.   They would
therefore be unsuitable for grouping and contracts would
be too small to be of interest to foreign bidders. Pur-
chases of inputs, mainly fertilizers would increase pro-
gressively over the project period but the quantities
required by year 9 when the project is fully developed
are estimated to amount only to about 4,000 tons of
urea, 2,800 tons of DAP and 600 tons of muriate of
potash. Fertilizer and other farm inputs would therefore
be procured through negotiated purchases after solicita-
tion of quotations from reliable suppliers. Similarly,
contracts for village water supply, rural roads, small
irrigation works and afforestation, estimated to cost a
total of about US$5.5 million, construction of staff
houses, widely dispersed over the area of the facilities
and equipment, estimated to cost about US$900,000, would
be small in size and spread over a period of years.
Foreign suppliers of goods and materials are well repres-
ented in the YAR, necessary service facilities are avail-
able, there are no import quotas or other import restric-
tions, competition is keen and prices are competitive.
Contracts would therefore be placed on the basis of com-
petitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures which are satisfactory to the
Association. Qualified domestic civil works contractors
would be accorded a 7-1/2 percent preference when comparing
bids from foreign contractors. Purchases under the proj-
ect will be exempt from import duties. The expatriate
experts to serve as project staff would be recruited in-
ternationally and it was agreed with the Government that
their qualifications and terms of employment would be
approved by IDA.
Consultants:        About 58 man-months of consultancy services would be pro-
vided under the project for ground water studies, agricul-
tural census, seed potatoes multiplication, marketing and
agro-industries studies and project monitoring.
Economic Rate        The economic rate of return for the project, including
of Return:          all costs (except family labor), is estimated at 19
percent.
Appraisal Report:    "Appraisal of Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
in YAR"
(No. 687-YAR)
Date: April 4, 1975
EMENA
April 17, 1975






IBRD 1053
JULY1974
Bodon                                                                                              YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
LAND USE, ROADS, TOWNS AND VILLAGES
°0 Areo  I-P                                                                                                   Project roads, new
a 3    t3         )                                                                                       ---Project roads for upgraPing
-    Existing main roads
00 '    AlI Hod'd'  0rO° e_____4 OOther roads
Big                                                                       -----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Traces
~~Soq olSabO I  0  0  2       dm1        VVadi~~~~~~~  0                                               0  PrDVincial capitals
; 0-        0             "     >                                                                                                  0  Towns
o Villoges
0        000    003Z  05 t:  ° ,2  ooshcraodrrli  byonl<J %Nch     o         02 I   °                                    Cultivoted land
J    GebeZat      0   2       iblah 00  0  00
o.j/  o       0 °~     ,Mcaron  00      r    \    0 0    tD&nrkh °H o 00° gn°
{o   Sohoul Area    J      Aba,            0        0   0      n
- ./  °   6 1FI Hcmcir 
MholmKhr       0/   0 ms.                                                                              0
0 Krs                       Wadi Mo0leh 0 
s  r   wrA  errZ  /n6 -. Mdleh  DW d  M e                                 0     0 0  0  0  0  00
Sooo.i s o40m0 LJd oeoS0U0ofi0  Sn r=oo o      0                         W adi  Ausseiffera                         0   0        rOOfbYru5uf °  00Au s if r
I..OOo,l.d 000000 oOohOLoWo  0,0  1. AOoimJ od,diMo10  W410 Vadi  O  hahor h  0y   0                                        0         0 or         0   TLb
.   n   tA d d  -Ui,b  Haimat  0                                                            0   0      0    0  0rba
boSd,                   OOioo.r,0,fl.0:h .bObr   Area           o   o      0I    T Z                  0                        00  0  00 0-     0        0 rI
X~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                     ~ KOdOhOf ..ooo  0  o 01  o 0  000o  Amo  Mir°e 90  o 0 Oo
X  SAUDI ARABIA                                                                                                                                                                  00r 6r O>Y i u °  ° >0 
0AN  2 =     6   2   tO  ts I° 16                                                                    0         o         ;t;/ s b     eD°
jRAR 914 ~ F~970      .      I      A     I      M559S                                                                       0.* .        0       0o             War
Saocoo                                                                                  0 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7l 0 a0 0 0
S UI F A RABIA0O.d00i00



