CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 545 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Southern Uplands Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 13, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 545 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Southern Uplands Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 13, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1975, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  The Borrower intends to contract from the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab
Economic Development a loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Abu
Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "SURDU" means Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit, the
Project implementation unit to be established and maintained pursuant to Section
3.02(a) of this Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "Coordinating Committee" means the committee to be established and
maintained pursuant to Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement;
(c)   "ACF" means the Agricultural Credit Fund Department established
within the Central Bank of the Borrower in connection with the Development
Credit Agreement (Credit No. 376 YAR) between the Borrower and the Association
dated May 7, 1973;
(d)   "Project Area" means an area of about 50,000 hectares of cultivated
land located in Taiz and lbb Provinces along the main road Sana'a-Taiz-Turba
between the Sahoul area in the north and Wadi Safia and Wadi Baracan in the
south within the Southern Uplands; and
(e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and its Central Bank pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1985, and ending February 15, 2025, each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1995 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project through
ACF and all other parts of the Project through its Ministry of Agriculture with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,
engineering, economic, financial, administrative and agricultural credit practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower
shall lend to its Central Bank the amount allocated under Category (5) of Schedule
1 to this Agreement pursuant to a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Central Bank upon terms and conditions (including
those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement) which shall have been approved
by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall make arrangements to the effect that the amount
allocated under Category (5)(a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and provided


﻿6
by the Borrower to its Central Bank shall be transformed into an equity
contribution to ACF if the Borrower decides within three years of the date of
this Agreement, in consultation with the Association, to establish ACF as an
independent national credit institution.
(e)   The Borrower shall cause its Central Bank, or ACF in the event of
ACF's establishment as an independent national credit institution, not to grant
any loan, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, for the construction
of farm products processing or storage facilities in the Project Area in an amount
exceeding the equivalent of $50,000, without obtaining the Association's prior
approval.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain within its Ministry
of Agriculture a Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (hereinafter called
SURDU) to be headed by a Project Manager acceptable to the Association. SURDU
shall have such powers, responsibilities, staff, facilities and resources as are set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)   For the purpose of over-all coordination, in the carrying out of the
Project, between SURDU and other concerned ministries and agencies of the
Borrower, the Borrower shall establish and maintain a coordinating committee under
the chairmanship of the Minister of Agriculture. Membership of said committee
shall include senior officials representing the Central Planning Organization and
the Ministry of Finance, the Project Manager of SURDU and the Director of the
Central Agricultural Research Station.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the implementation of the
Project and in the training of selected Yemeni counterparts, the Borrower shall
employ experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿7
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construition sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, to ensure that the local population benefiting from the feeder roads,
village water supply systems and gravity irrigation schemes provided under Part
A of the Project shall contribute 30% of the local cost of the construction thereof,
or such other percentage as shall be agreed with the Association, through either
free labor, provision of materials or cash payments.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, prior to the commencement of the
construction of the feeder roads, village water supply systems, irrigation
improvements and land protection schemes provided under Part A of the Project,
furnish to the Association for its approval, the proposals by SURDU in respect
of the location and construction standards of said works and facilities and shall
make such modifications to said proposals as the Association shall reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate


﻿8
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of SURDU, ACF and the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause SURDU and ACF to: (i) have their accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of SURDU and ACF
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, with the villagers benefiting from a village water supply system
provided under Part A of the Project, for the assumption of the entire cost of
the operation and maintenance of said system by said villagers. To that end, the
Borrower shall require the villagers to: (i) deposit, upon the completion of the
installation of each such system, an advance amount corresponding to the estimated
operation and maintenance cost of said system for a period of four months; and
(ii) pay, thereafter, on a monthly basis the actual cost incurred in the operation
and maintenance thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that (i) at least 75% of loans, made
under the Project, for the development of groundwater will be extended to
owner-cultivators; (ii) loans for said purpose will be extended after consultation
with the hydrogeological expert of SURDU on the availability of satisfactory water
resources; and (iii) preference will be given to loan applications by groups of small
farmers who will share in the investment cost of, and benefits from, said
groundwater developments.
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that interest rates charged on all agricultural loans
to be extended to farmers in the Project Area shall not be less than the interest
rates specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement in respect of loans
to be financed under the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, not later than four months after the
Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, take
all action necessary to introduce a system, satisfactory to the Association, for the
sharing of the cost of farm inputs between landlords and tenants.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i)         the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Fund
Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Fund Loan
Agreement, or
(ii)       such Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof; and
(b)   paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i)         such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the Fund Loan Agreement, and
(ii)       adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a)(ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly executed and has come into
force and effect pursuant to the provisions thereof, and the conditions, if any,
precedent to initiating disbursements thereunder have been fulfilled;


﻿10
(b)   the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU) has been
established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement;
(c)  the Project Manager referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement
has been appointed pursuant to the provisions thereof; and
(d)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and its Central Bank, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly executed and has come
into force and effect pursuant to the provisions thereof, and the conditions, if
any, precedent to initiating disbursements thereunder have been fulfilled; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and the Central
Bank, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Central Bank in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 10, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.02, 4.01,
4.02 and 4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿11
For the Borrower:
Central Planninag Organization
P.O. Box 17k
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
CENPLAN
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above wriften.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Hassan Makki
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Rural works                    2,300,000         42.5%
(2)  Project facilities              1 ,300,000        50%
and equipment
(3)  Technical services:
(a)   Expatriate               1,600,000          50%
staff
(b)   Local staff                600,000          30%
(4)  Overseas Fellow-                 200,000          50%
ships, training and
studies
(5)  Agricultural
Credit
(a)  Incremental cost            750,000          50%
of fertilizer
purchased by
SURDU on annual
basis to be pro-
vided to farmers
in the form of
short-term
credit
(b)  Medium and                  550,000          37.5% of loans
long-term                                   made by ACF
(6)   Unallocated                    2,700,000
TOTAL         10,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
The term "incremental cost of fertilizer purchased by SURDU on annual
basis" means the additional amount of the cost of such fertilizer as compared
with the cost of the preceding year.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:     Rural Works
Construction and upgrading of about 180 km of feeder roads,
installation of about 90 village water supply systems, expansion and
improvement    of   existing  small  gravity  irrigation  schemes,
reafforestation of about 350 hectares, installation of gabion protection
of about 20 km of wadi banks and construction of drop structures
of gabions on about 25 km across the wadis.
Part B:     Project Facilities and Equipment
Construction of offices, buffer storage facilities for SURDU in Ibb
and Taiz, staff housing, and purchase of vehicles, office and field staff
equipment, and equipment for surveying and for a veterinary team.
Part C.     Agricultural Credit
A program of short-term loans to small farmers for the purchase of
fertilizer and other farm inputs and of medium and long-term loans
to farmers for the building of production wells, nurseries, orchards
and packaging and handling facilities for vegetables and fruits.
Part D      Establishment and training of an extension service force and local
counterpart staff, and a program of overseas fellowships.
Part E      Promotion of application of seed dressings and other plant protection
techniques through the Project extension service, and multiplication
and distribution of high-yielding seeds developed by the National
Agricultural Research Center.
Part F      Purchase and utilization of molluscicides and equipment for the control
of Bilharzia.
Part G      Studies and preparation of a second-phase project in Wadi Bana,
El-Gened, Eryan and suitable adjacent areas.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1981.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Parts A.2 and 3 hereof, contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.    Fertilizer and other farm   inputs shall be procured through negotiated
purchases after solicitation of quotations from reliable suppliers.
3.    Office equipment provided under Part B of the Project shall be procured
through negotiated purchases after solicitation of quotations from reliable suppliers.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under Categories (1)
and (2) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower
may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Applicants for such preference shall be required to prequalify as
described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines and shall be asked to provide, as part of
the information for qualification, such information, including details of ownership,
as shall be required to determine whether, according to the classification established
by the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.


﻿16
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part B
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant foi prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more and contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $20,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the
bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.


﻿17
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-Lending
Under Part C of the Project
The following are the principal terms and conditions for lending by the
Borrower to its Central Bank of the amounts referred to in Section 3.01(b) of
this Agreement and by the Central Bank to sub-borrowers for the purposes of
carrying out Part C of the Project.
1.    Lending Terms - the Borrower to its Central Bank:
(a)   Term:       15 years including a five-year grace period.
(b)   Interest:   1% per annum on outstanding balance.
(c)   The Central Bank shall cause ACF to establish a special reserve fund
(Special Drought Fund (SDF)) in its account to cover future losses resulting from
defaults on short-term loans due to catastrophic drought conditions in the Project
Area. ACF shall credit the SDF with amounts equivalent to: (i) 3% per annum
of the outstanding balance of the loan made by the Borrower to the Central Bank;
and (ii) 3% of the total cost to sub-borrowers of fertilizer provided under the
Project.
2.    Lending Terms - the Central Bank to sub-borrowers:
(a)   Terms:
(i)        short-term loans for working capital for additional inputs shall
be due within twelve months after the granting thereof; and
(ii)       repayment periods of medium and long-term loans shall be as
follows:


﻿19
Investment                    Grace            Repayment
Categories                   Period              Period         Total
-years-
Wells, pumps                     1                   5            6
and pump
motors
Orchards,                       4                    6           10
coffee plan-
tations and
nurseries
Processing                      2                    8           10
and storage
facilities
(b)   Interest:
shall be at rates which would be reasonably in line with prevailing
rates for short, medium and long-term loans, respectively, for similar
purposes made by commercial banks, but not less than 9% per annum
for short-term loans and 8% per annum for medium and long-term
loans.
(c)   Eligible Borrowers:
loans may be made to individual cultivators, groups of farmers, persons
or entities for the purposes specified under Part C of the Project, each
of whose business is conducted within the Project Area or related to
the agricultural produce therefrom.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 5
Description of Southern Uplands Rural
Development Unit - SURDU
A.    Organization of SURDU.
1.   Form: Operating entity within the Ministry of Agriculture, independent of
existing departmental units of said Ministry, directly under the responsibility of
the Minister, and with authority to deal with operational and financial aspects
of the Project.
2.    Project Manager: Headed by a qualified and experienced Project Manager
who will report directly, and be responsible, to the Minister of Agriculture and
work within guidelines set by the Ministry of Agriculture but otherwise having
independence in all operational and financial matters related to the Project. He
will be stationed in lbb. The Borrower shall appoint a regional director general
for the Southern Uplands (Taiz and Ibb Provinces) who shall have an under-secretary
status, and who shall also serve as co-manager of SURDU.
3.    Staff: In addition to the Project Manager and co-manager, qualified and
experienced personnel, including inter alios an administrative and finance officer,
a credit officer to be seconded from ACF, two senior extension agronomists, a
plant protection extension agronomist, a veterinarian, a livestock expert, and a
senior civil engineer.
4.    Accounting System: Separate from that of the Ministry of Agriculture and
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, particularly with its own annual
budget, its own bank accounts and generally accepted commercial accounting
procedures and management controls.
B.    Operation of SURDU:
1.    SURDU's responsibilities shall include inter alia the following:
(a)   Organization and management of an agricultural extension service
covering the Project Area, composed of about 200 extension agents and field
supervisors;
(b)   Distribution of agricultural inputs and organization of a supporting
credit scheme in coordination with ACF;


﻿21
(c)   Survey, design and supervision of construction of support roads, village
water supply systems, irrigation canal lining, land protection schemes, office
buildings and staff housing;
(d)   Provision of technical support to ACF in making loans for inter alia
production wells and orchards;
(e)   Initiation and supervision of supplementary studies to extend the
concept of the Project to areas presently outside the Project Area; and
(f)   Coordination with bilateral and multilateral aid agencies.
2.    SURDU's powers shall include inter alia the following:
(a)   Acquisition of land for its works and right of entry into lands not
owned by it for the purpose of conducting surveys, collecting data or other related
objectives;
(b)   Entering into contractual arrangements with companies or agencies for
the execution of works;
(c)   Organization and operation of agricultural research, extension and
credit on behalf of the Borrower's departments and agencies dealing with said
matters, upon the Borrower's request; and
(d)   Entering into   contractual arrangements, in conjunction with the
appropriate authorities of the Borrower, for the employment of experts and
consultants as may be required for the carrying out of its duties.


