Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8421
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIRST PHASE OF A UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 1904-IND)
MARCH 8, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Technical Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restridcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
CPIU              Central Project Implementation Unit
DGHE              Directorate General of Higher Education
GOI               Government of Indonesia
ITB               Institute of Technology, Bandung
LPIU              Local Project Implementation Unit
MES               Monitoring and Evaluation System
MIS               Management Information System
MUCIA             Midwest Universities Consortium for
International Activities
PUSILKOM          University of Indonesia Computer Center
REPELITA          National Five Year Development Plan
UGM               University of Gadjah Mada
UI                University of Indonesia
UNAND             University of Andalas
UNINET            University Information Network
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupiah (Rp)
At Appraisal 1980
US$1.00 - Rp 625
Rp 1.00 - US$0.0016
Annual Average Exchange Rates to USSl.O0
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
627     632     661     909    1,026    1,110   1,256   1,646   1,681
FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL US OLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
US.A.
Ok. at Dvectgv-G,vqa
mw.tumw Evakaatean
March 8, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  INDONESIA - First Phase
of a University Development Program (Loan 1904-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Indonesia - First Phase of a University
Development Program (Loan 1904-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by racipients only in the perfornmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wortd Bank authorization.



FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA&
FIRST PHASE OF A UNIVERSITY DEVELOPNENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 1904-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
page No.
Preface                                                                      1
Evaluation Summary                                                          ii
PART  I Main Findings and Lessons (Bank)
Project Identity                                                       1
Background                                                             1
Program Objectives and Description                                     2
Project Design and Organization                                        3
Project Implementation and Results                                     4
Project Impact and Sustainability                                      7
Bank Performance                                                       A
Borrower Performance                                                   9
Lessons                                                               10
PART  II Main Findings and Lessons (Borrower)                                13
PART  III Tables and Comments                                                14
3.1  Related Bank Loans                                               14
3.2  Project Timetable                                                15
3.3  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements                    15
3.4  Disbursement Graph                                               16
3.5  Disbursements by Category                                        17
3.6  Project Implementation - Indicators                              18
3.7  Project Costs                                                    19
3.8  Project Financing                                                20
3.9  Project Results                                                  20
3.10 Status of Covenants                                              23
3.11 Use of Bank Resources: Staffweeks by Stage                       24
3.12 Mission Data                                                     25
APPENDIX:  Completion Report prepared by the Directorate General of
Higher Education, Indonesia                                     27
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by rdcpients only Iin the perfomanc
of their offcia duties. Its contents maY no0t Otherwise be disclowd without World Dank authorlwatonl.



. i -
PRJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESI
FIRST PHASE OF A UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 1204-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the First Phase of
a University Development Project, for which Loan 1904-IND for US$45 million
was approved on September 16, 1980. The Loan was closed on December 31,
1987, one year behind schedule. The last disbursement was made on November
14, 1988, when the unused balance of US$1.94 million was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Population and
Human Resources Division, Technical Department, Asia Region using as a
basis the completion report prepared by the Government (the Directorate
General of Higher Education--DGHE). Data for the report were also gathered
during discussions held with appropriate Government officials during the
last supervision mission and a post-completion mission and from project
files at Bank Group headquarters in Washington, D.C. To complement Part
II, the DGHE Completion Report is reproduced as an appendix to the main
report.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INWONESI
FIRST PHASE OF A UNIVERSIIY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 1904-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
This was the Bank's first loan for university educatior in
Indonesia. Other than a polytechnic project in 1978, and some involvement
with teacher training, the Bank had concentrated its previous eight
education loans on primary and secondary education. The higher education
sub-sector was later identified by the Government as a priority area.
University education suffered from internal inefficiency, poor standards
and inadequate mansgement at a time when enrollments were increasing
rapidly. The project was intended to correct these deficiencies by focus-
sing on planning, staff development and management, at the DGHE and three
major universities.   A second phase was envisioned, which would provide
construction and equipping of needed facilities once master plans for the
three project universities had been completed.   With a loan of US$45
million and a total estimated cost of US$65.2 million, the project was
designed to: (a) establish targets for policy reforms and mechanisms for
improving management functions centrally and in each of the three project
institutions; (b) provide for training nearly 200 university staff abroad
and for about 40 specialists to advise and lecture in the three univer-
sities; and (c) finance development planning, site design and preparation,
and equipment and learning materials.
ImElementatio
For the first three years progress was slow mainly due to lack of
clarity in how to achieve the goals of the project, inexperienced manage-
ment, disagreement  ver the agency to oversee technical assistance, uncer-
tainty in budget and procurement matters, and lack of proper management, as
project staff assigned to carry out project implementation responsibilities
were mainly preoccupied with their regular university appointments.   By
mid-1984, the appointment of a new project director led to more efficient
management at a time when the technical assistance, master planning and
procurement aspects needed stimulating.   The 'roject was completed 18
months behind schedule, with a 23% saving in US dollar terms. About 96% of
the loan was disbursed by September 30, 1988, nine months after the closing
date of December 31, 1987.
During the life of the project the rupiah was devalued 250%, and
the GOI development budget to higher education was significantly reduced
from Rupiah 119.25 billion (US$191 million) to Rupiah 59.35 billion (US$34
million).  The proceeds of the Loan were reallocated in 1985 and in 1986,



- iii -
and the percentage of financing for civil works was increased.   Since
preparatory activities had been completed and campuses were ready for
commencement of construction, this change in the loan agreement was timely
and beneficial; two of the project universities were able to include
construction within the project period, with loan financing.   Except for
some site development works, the campus of the third university (UI) was
constructed entixely with GOI financing. The reallocation of proceeds also
permitted increased technical assistance and the purchase of some addi-
tional equipment.
Results
The project met its objectives of increased output, improved
quality and strengthened management.   By mutual agreement and because of
project readiness, physical inputs in civil works and equipment were
increased.   University policies and practices on enrollment, staffing,
credit hours and examinations were changed.   Specific indicators were
designed and instituted to measure quality while both a monitoring and
evaluation system and an information management system were established.
The appraisal targets for these indicators were largely met.   All loan
covenants were fulfilled. The number of university staff trained overseas
more than doubled the appraised estimates while the number of visiting
professors, using short rather than long-term assignments, trebled. Some
specialist services and local consultants were not utilized.   However,
hundreds of editors and university administrators throughout the system
were trained locally, despite the limited provision made at appraisal. The
reduced procurement of textbooks was partially offset by the translation
and printing of additional texts, purchase of journals, and science equip-
ment and computers.
Sustainabi_xt
The establishment of a Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU)
provided a focal point for institutionalizing project management as well as
creating an essential network within DGHE. The unit was fully integrated
into the system and is now managing the Higher Education Development
Project (Ln. 2944-IND). Local Project Implementation Units (LPIUs) created
under the project were also integrated into the permanent management
structure of each of the three project universities (U', UGH, & UNAND).
The experiences gained in designing master plans are likely to be trans-
ferred as other universities continue to develop.   The experience and
expertise gained through the staff development program will not only be
useful for the administration of future programs but those trained will
have a continuing impact upon university life and administration.
Findings and Lessons
Many lessons were learned from the implementation of this project,
and both the Bank and the Borrower are already putting into practice in
other projects the relevant lessons that emerged from this experience. The
major ones are summarized below:



- iv -
(a)  Project Management.   Dedicated and able management, coupled with
adequate resources for monitoring and supervision of project
activities are essential for successful project implementation;
(b)  Training in Project Management and Familiarization with Bank and
Borrower Procedures.   Training in management techniques, and
familiarization with Bank and local procedures needs to be planned
early in the project.  The November 1984 Implementation Workshop
organized by the Bank, with participation of projects, disburse-
ments,  and EDI staff and the PlUs, MEC, MOF and BAPPENAS,
contributed significantly in improving implementation performance
for this and other projects;
(c) Flexibility. The need to make changes to accommodate unpredict-
able events should be recognized, and flexibility shoald be built
into the project description;
(d)  Institutionalization of Project Management.   There is a need to
institutionalize certain features of a project, such as project
management and major technical assistance. Both of these actions
paid high dividends for the project;
(e) Computerization. The use of computers provided more efficient and
effective means for data collection and analysis, communication
and dissemination;
(f)  Indicators.   A set of indicators, which act as targets for the
piujeu., uu. w4ifclh alo establish standards for future development
should be established at appraisal;
(g)  Technical Assistance for Staff Development.   A large technical
assistance component, if well planned and administered flexibly in
conjurctior with an international agency, can be extremely bene-
ficial in organizing visiting experts, overseas study and local
cascading trainine.
(h) FLnancLng. Financing higher percentage of selected priority items
are effective in expediting disbursements and minimizing counter-
part funding constraints;
(i) Lengthy Negotiations for Technical Assistance. There is a need to
prepare for large technical assistance contracts during project
preparation, preappraisal and appraisal;
(j)  Phasing of Civil Works.  Site development should not be undertaken
independently of other civil works;
(k) Master Plan Design. Designing master plans is complex and may be
more effective if packaged to attract joint venture involvement;



- v .
(1)  Local Consulting Firms.   There is a need to ensure that local
architectural and engineering firms are capable to perform the
services they are contracted to provide. In this particular case
site engineering proved to be the most problematic; and
(m) Participation of Users. There is a need for more active partici-
pation by the usere in the review of project proposals, particu-
larly architectural drawings for highly functional areas such as
laboratories and workshops.



PROJECT COMPLEQION BEPORT
JNDONlESIA
FIRST PHAS4 OF A UNIVERSITY DEV1YL2PNENT PROGRAM (LOAN 1904-IND)
PAR't_I
MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS (BANK)
Proiect Identity
Project Name: First Phase of a University Development Program
Loan No.: 1904-IND (Code No.: 4INESPA101)
Date of Loan Effectiveness: January 21, 1981
Completion Date: December 31, 1987
Loan Closing Date: September 30, 1988
Total Project Cost, Appraisal Estimate: US$65.2 million
Project Cost at Closing, 1988: US$49.7 million
Foreign Exchange Component: US$45.0 million
IBRD Loan, Appraisal Estimate: US$45.00 million
IBRD Loan, Total Disbursed: US$43.0,6 million
IBRD Loan, Total Cancelled: US$1.94 million
RVP Un't: Asia
Coun-ry: Indonesia
Sector: Education
Sub-sector: Higher Education
Background
1.1         At the time of appraisal in Ja:auary 1980, thte lndonesian education
system was unevenly developed. About 92% cof tihe 7-12 ag;e group attended
92,500 primary schools, representing the fiLfth highest pe.icentage among the
developing countries in the region.  At the secondary and tertiary le.els,
however, with 19% and 2% of the respective age groups enrc,lled, Indonesia had
one of the lowest enrollment ratios in Asia. On the positive side, with 2.4%
of GDP devoted to education, Indonesia was one of the fear countries spending
more than 2%. Education received 9.1% of public expenditure in 1978. over
the life of the project the percentage of the public edvication development
budget allocated to higher education declinedi from 9.7% in 1978 to about 5.5%
in 1988.
1.2         Notwithstanding a twenty-fold expansion in university enrollments
since 1960, by 1980 university education suffored froua internal inefficiency,
poor quality and inadequate management.  The DGHE centrally controlled the 41
public higher education institutions, which had enrol.lments of over 250,000
students. High first year failure rates of 50% and '3xorbitant dropout rates
of 80%, illustrated vory high inefficiency, atitributed to: (a) the poor
quality of the teaching staff (less than 3% percent held Ph.D.s); (b)
inadequate time devoted to teaching (3-6 hours per iceacher per week); (c) poor
planning of physical resources; (d) lack of textbooks and instructional
materials; and (e) inappropriate policies. Compournding these factors were low
university staff salaries, so that most faculty we're forced to hold other
jobs. Management of the system and of individual universities was constrained



b,y lack of a permanent trained group of administrators, little monitoring or
evaluamiLon and a poor system for Informaticn management  Excessive autonomy
fox soane departments, poor coordination and inefficient use of resources, and
an absence of planning and expertise in administration adversely affected all
insvitutions.
1.3         To overcome these deficiencies, in 1979 the Government emphasized
product:tvity and management. The sub-sector objectives were to: (a) increase
interial. productivity; (b) expand and improve physical facilities and
staff ing; (c) improve student services and welfare; and (d) strengthen
universlity management and organization. The introduction of a credit system
of course requirements and a nev stratified system of diplomas were the first
steps irv this process. Physical expansion was initiated through the five year
developmi%nt program. Despite these ch&nges, managerial ability was still
inadequate for the tasks. While bilateiral and multilateral assistance,
including World Bank loans, (Part III, Table 3.1) had been received over the
previous deicade. this project was seen as pivotal in launching a new era in
university education.
program Oblecitives and Descrintion
1.4         This project was ambitiouaily viewed as the first phase of the
Government's university development program.  Its objectives were to: (a)
increase the output in selected fields in three major universities (para 1.5);
(b) improve the qualitr of university inputs; and (c) strengthen the
management of ths univeirsity system. It emphasized staff development,
internal university pol.icies, central and local planning, and monitoring of
both management atnd physical facilittes. The second phase, concentrating on
physical plant, wa.s to be introduced approximately two years after the
academic, organizationuil and campus muaster plans had been developed and
adequate policies, aita1-f development and administrative mechanisms had been
instituted.
1.5         The projec1: covered the universities of Indonesia (UI), Gadjah
Mada (UGM) and Andalas; (UNAND). Thiee faculties were selected -- science,
engineering and econoutice (including business administration and accountancy),
with a fourth faculty (agriculture) added at Andalas only. Targets were
established on a numbetr of policy and academic measures (Part III, Table 3.9).
?.6         The first odljective of increasing output was to be achleved
through: (a) changing pi omotion arkd graduation policies by introducing a
credit hour system as of June 30, 1982; (b) adopting targets for minimum staff
workloads for teaching, lesearch .snd consultation, for ratios of management to
teaching staff and staff to students, for space utilization, scheduling and
teaching spaces, and for aitudent evaluation schemes, financial aid programs,
staff improvement and curr iculum development (Part III, Table 3.6); (c)
establishing monitoring anoi evalulation units within DGHE and at each
university; (d) conducting, through local consultants, studies on the
financial and administrative feasibility of staff devoting full-time to their
responsibilities and on the value of entrance tests and other admission
criteria in predicting academic success; and (e) financing expatriate and
local consultants to assist in completing various master plans, building
designs, equipment lists and initial site works in preparation for the
anticipated enrollment increa se under phase two of the university development
scheme.



1.7         The second objective of  MrXrovinW quality comprLsed: (a) pro'risio?n
of technical assistance provision for 177 fellowshLps for a total of 460
staff-vears and 30 visiting professoris for a total of 60 staff-years; (b)i
provision for English (or other foreign) language training for candidatesa
before they took the language test; (c) development of teaching materlalas by
selecting, translating, editing and printing 120 different textbooks in the
selected disciplines through the training overseas of eight edltors and u:he
provision of printing equipment at UGC and ITB; and (d) provision of
professional journals and reference tooks totalling about 150,000 copies.
1.8         The third objective was ithe stren=theafng of =AverstiM menagemnt
through: (a) introducing a monLtorinj3 and evaluation system (both within DGHE
and at each university) to help evaluate pollcy measures, establish
standardized indicators and annual targets, develop techniques, receive and
collect data, analyze data, evaluate strategies and advise DGHE; (b)
establishing a management information system to coll.ect data systematically on
students. staff, costs, facilities, materials, graduates and graduate
employment as well as introducing uniform accounting systems for univers'Lties;
(c) setting up a university developtment office with a task force charged with
managing this project and also with planning and imp1ementing future
university investment; (d) developing a cadre of trained managerial personnel
who, in turn, would establish a training unit of about 20 trainers to develop
management training programs and materials and train ,about 800 senior
university and DGHE personnel; and (e) rationalizing university staffing,
management and use of resources through development C*7 a master plan for staff
appointments and training, planning for the establishbaent of centralized
administration and library functions, and ensuring centralized professional
services and procurement functions.,
Project Design and Organization
1.9         The project was different from earlier Ban}: education projects in
several ways. It was conceived in two phases, because of its size and the
need for considerable groundwork. The focus was on preparation and planning,
both for this project and its presumed successor. Table 4.1 of the Staff
Appraisal Report clearly indicates that the "hardware" aspects (construction,
procurement) were intended to be Left until phase two.  It was also different
because of its emphasis on management development and the identification of
this as a major weakness in the university system. Whil,e these
characteristics can now be identified, the UNESCO prepariation mission failed
to capture these concepts, focussing instead on buildingas and subjects.   The
appraisal team concentrated on policies and planning. However, neither they
nor the GOI appreciated the magnitude and intricacies of the tasks of
preparation and implementation.
1.10        The project was designed to respond to percei.ved needs, and was
both appropriate and timely. To have launched a major cc.nstruction program
without laying the foundations of staff development and university master
plans would have courted disaster. Among its many signif icant achievements,
the project should be recognized for: (a) emphasizing a phased approach to
problems in university education; (b) establishing appropriate structures for
organization and management; (c) funding a massive staff development program-
(d) reinforcing centralized control over a sprawling university system; and



(e) generating master plans for the DGHE and each of the three project
vnive:rsitles.
1.11        The project design did not tackle what may have been more
fundainerttal issues within the system. At appraisal, no explicit reference was
made to the relative functional importance of academic, administrative or
finan*ial authority. The preparation mission had been concerned with academic
subjetct content, whereas the appraisal team emphasized the administrative and
finan,cial bottlenecks as well as the quallty of staff in all three spheres.
But the inter-relationships among these three elements was missing.  No
suggestion seems to have been given at any time to local decision-makers on
which element should have priority. On tbte positive side, the concept of
establishing a Central Project Implementation Unit to coordinate planning and
implementation was a bold estroke in the design of the project. However, too
littl.e attention seems to have been given to resolving the relative authority
of tIie CPIU and the LPIUs iat each university. Similarly, the complicated
proceidures and pressures in the GOI budgetary processes, especially in
relation to long-range planning, were insufficiently addressed.
Prol,ect Implementation andl Results
1.1.2       The project was implemented ove,r a seven year period -- 18 months
longer than anticipated eit appraisal. Disbursements continued for an
additional nine months. The pace of implemtentation was uneven: (a) initial
e'nthusiasm was followed b)y lassitude as delays occurred in organizing
t:echnical assistance; (b) project management faltered and only recovered
significantly in the latter stages of implemnentation when a capable manager
devoted full-time attention to the tasks; (r) uncertainty and inexperience
with procedures (especielly the budget procoss and procurement) hindered
efficient disbursement umtil 1985; and (d) continued devaluations and
restrictions in local fumding for higher edulcation brought conflicting
pressures as the project proceeded. Yet, asn detailed below, despite such
fluctuations project results (Part III, Tables 3.6, 3.9 and 3.10) exceeded
appraisal expectations. Quantitatively, more technical assistance was
provided, additional iiadicators were established and new construction was
begun. The project's three major objectives, and the means by which they were
to be implemented (pa:.as 1.4-1.8), were achieved. All covenants under the
Loan were fulfilled (I'art III, Table 3.10). The Loan was 96X disbursed.
Total cost of the pro'Ject was about US$15 million less than anticipated.
1.13        The estab:lishment of the CPIU was a major achievement.  It
provided a mechanism for communication among the universities and between the
central DGHE and its untversities. Its three key sections were appropriately
staffed throughout the life of the project (DGHE Report, Annex 4). Its
weaknesses arose from. lack of clarity in defining and carrying through its
leadership role and responsibilities vis-a-vis the three LPIUs. Staff in each
LPIU viewed their own, functions differently, depending on the perceived
priority of the tasks and the demands of their own academic commLtments. In
general, the CPIU ful.filled the objectives of the project by
institutionalizing pr oject management implementation. Guidelines were issued,
indicators establishe,d and monitored, policies instigated and reviewed, and
overall university development planning and practices pursued.
1.14        The developzient of university faculty in order to improve the
quality of teaching aEnd research exceeded appraisal proposals. The



enthusiastic selection and initial English language training of staff
sponsored by the British Council, was overshadowed by disagreements over the
condltions for appointing an organization to manage the extensive technical
assistance provisions of the project. After more than a two year delay, the
contract was awarded to the Midwest Universities Consortium for International
Activities, Inc. (MUCIA) which had considerable experience in Indonesia. Over
a four year perio- ;IJCIA arranged for 90 professors (in contrast to the 30
suggested at appraisal) to conduct training and semester courses In the three
project universities within the budgeted 60 staff years. Fellowship training
resulted in nearly double the appraisal estimate of 210 for the number of
university staff going overseas, while more than thzee times the original
estimate of 310 received short course training within Indonesia (Part III,
Table 3.6, items 12 and 13; DORE report, Tables 7-9 and Sections 2.04-2.12).
1.15        On the other hand, implementation of the other technical
assistance provisions was uneven (Part III, Table 3.6; DOlE report, Table 10).
In particular, both the local and foreign specialist services for particular
categories were not fulfilled and little attempt seems to have been made to
ensure that this breach was remedied. One explanation is that many of the
foreign experts under MUCIA undertook the advisory functions in those
categories whilst providing teaching services at the universities.
Uncertainty over the status of university staff to accept local consulting
assignments and of the procedures for obtaining local specialist services
under the project, except for professional design services, seem to have been
the reasons for the lack of use of local consulting expertise.
1.16        The monitoring and evaluation functions of the project focussed on
establishing standardized indicators to measure a range of functions, which
were updated annually. The DGHE issued directives which ensure that: (a)
admission policies have changed; (b) a credit system has been introduced; (c)
workload and student ratios have been adjusted; and (d) other targets are
being met. Standard formats for data collection have been introduced and an
Inter University Computer Network (UNINET) linking seven universities with
DOGHE has been established. The three reports issued by the Monitoring and
Evaluation System (NES) detail both the definitions developed and the results
achieved on resource availability, resource utilization and quality of
education (DGHE report, Annexes 13, 16-18). These data go further than the
indicators envisaged at appraisal (Part III, Table 3.6). Furthermore, NES has
now extended coverage to universities outside the project. Hence, the impact
of this aspect of implementation is already being felt in other units of the
university education system.
1.17        Civil works were not originally envisaged as part of this first
phase of university development. Emphasis was given to university master
planning and the provision of professional services for design and site
development. At appraisal, these services were identified as mainly local,
but with 20X disbursement allowing for foreign advice. The latter was not
systematically obtained and is considered a major weakness of the project.
Instead, master planning, building designs and site supervision were
contracted to local firms, several of whom were university staff. The
relative smallness of the civil works and site development category reduced
the Bank's initial inputs from architects, which may have contributed to later
difficulties. Insufficient local awareness of the magnitude and complexity of
the task involved in university master plan development inhibited effective
implementation of this aspect.



1.18        International expertise in master planning could hava been
obtained if this aspect had been conceived as a whole rather than for each
university separately. The resulting interaction and local experience could
have been well utilized as other universities evolved. The concepts of master
planning were not always taken into account, especially the attention needed
on initial educational/academic considerations (such as enrollments, class
groupings and sizes, ratio of lectures, tutorials and practical work, staff
loads and responsibilities, teaching modes, etc.) in order to determine
spatial requirements prior to overall determinatlon of physical facilities
needed. As a result, building designs were sometimes imposed without due
consideration to functional educational needs, student flow, inter-relational
placexent of buildings and overall utilization of natural contours in the
placement of facilities. The Bank's supervision comments on these issues were
not heeded. Especially its relation to site development at UNAND, expensive
reconstruction work had to be undertaken due to poor initial work ruined by
flooding due to improper site engineering.
1.19        The two-phase development as envisaged at appraisal did not
materialize.  However, the anticipated follow-on of construction in phase two
was incorporated within the project, with initiation of construction of
buildings at UNAND and UGM, following a project description amendment. The
Bank's subsequent higher education projects, especially the Second University
Development (Ln. 2547-IND) and Higher Education Development (Lu. 2944-IND)
have been an outgrowth of this project. The universities themselves,
particularly UI, pushed for designs which the GOI largely financed, so that
all UI construction was financed outside the project. The emphasis for the
project changed after 1985, when funds were reallocated to include civil works
for UGN and UNAND, and the percentage to be disbursed increased from 20X to
80% (Part III, Table 3.5). An additional US$5 million was disbursed in this
category out of total disbursements of US$30 million during the last two years
of the project.
1.20        Procurement of equipment proceeded satisfactorily despite early
uncertainties over procedures and GOI budgetary requirements. Both these
difficulties could have been anticipated. More thorough investigation of
government requirements could have led to specific training for CPIU and LPIU
personnel from the beginning of the project. Similarly, time should have been
allowed for training PIU staff in Bank procurement procedures by Bank staff;
this would have been useful at the outset. Virtually every Bank supervision
mission after 1984 encouraged efficient utilization of funds to meet emerging
as well as initially identified equipment needs. As a result, twice the
original allocation of Loan funds were disbursed for this category (Part III,
Table 3.5).
1.21        Bank supervision missions were frequent and timely (Part III,
Table 3.12). The DGHE report suggests that architects were over-represented
during supervision. However, the architects normally reviewed all aspects of
the project in the capacity of project officer/task manager and provided
essential guidance on procurement matters in particular. At the same time,
implementation suffered from insufficient visits by educators from the Bank.
Vhile NUCIA provided substantial educational input, this should not have been
substituted for the broader international perspective which Bank educators
could have contributed to this essentially educational development project.



This should have been an expected Bank priority and carried out in mlssion
planning.
1.22        From appraisal in 1980 untll project closlng in 1988, the Rupiah
depreclated by 250%. Thls includes a 24% drop in March 1983. Such
devaluation could not have been anticipated at appraLsal. As a result, the
Bank twlce reallocated loan proceeds. Loan funds vere reallocated (and
contlngencles dlstributed) in March 1985 and again in July 1986 when a
management servlces category was introduced (Para. 3.8 and Part III, Table
3.7; DGHE report, Table 14). The Bank Loan covered all forelgn exchange
costs. The two reallocations effectlvely reduced the expert services category
by about 30% sance fewer experts had been recrulted. Together wlth funds from
categorles whiLch were reduced, the contingencies (US$12 milllon) were spread
among clvll works (an eventual increase of US$6.2 million or 177%),
fellowshlps (US$5.5 million or 49%) and equipment (US$3.1 million or 82%).
These reallocations seem to have been judLcLous and timely, allowing: (a)
unlverslty constructlon to proceed despite government financial constraints:
(b) fellowship holders already overseas to complete thelr studles; and (c)
increased equlpment, lncludlng computers, to be procured.
1.23        Dlsbursement of Loan funds was slow from the outset.  In part this
was due to the dlfflcultles and delays ln contracting technLcal asslstance,
and because the project dld not contaLn hardware components for large amounts
whLch could be quLckly procured. In llght of the latter, greater caution
could have been exerclsed in preparing the disbursement schedule. Government
cuts reduced spendLig capabllity after 1985. The rate of disbursement
remained abysmally slow until the reallocatlon increased the clvll works
disbursement from 20% to 80% of expenditures. By the original closing date,
December 31, 1986, only US$26.6 milllon or 59% of the Loan had been dlsbursed.
Greatly lmproved management wlth fiscal responsibility resulted in
US$30 milllon being disbursed after December 1985.
Prolect IWmact and Sustainabilitv
1.24        This project was the springboard for Bank involvement in higher
education. It had a major impact on universlty development in Indonesia.
More than in the quantltative lncreases and the improvements in the
qualitative indicators which the project had Instigated, thls project provided
the vLalon for comiLtment to staff development, managerlal expertlse,
monltoring and evaluation, lnformation management and long-range planning.
Subsequent loans (University II, Science and Technology, Hlgher Education,
Accountancy Development) already have built on thls framework. The Government
is now acknowledglng that more time needs to be spent in thoroughly managing
masslve fellowshlp programs through inltial planning and contacts, objective
selection criterla, on-going advice and monitorlng mechanLsms, and planned re-
entry to the system. Project monltoring has become institutionallzed in the
Higher Education Development Project. Both are sustainable outcomes of the
project.
1.25        Durlng the Bank's revlew of all ongoing Indoneslan educatlon
projects in 1986, attentlon was focussed on fundamental problems of
implementation in this project -- the lack of full-time trained personnel and
inLitially weak project management capability. The COX has accepted these
critlcLsms. Thls may be the first step in assisting lndividuals to look
critieally, yet objectively, at their own performance and at those whom they



- 8 -
have responsibility for supervising. The project's impact vill be felt for
decades through the human resource development which it fostered. At first,
this will occur because the university personnel who were trained will be
better qualified to teach, administer and assist the learning process. The
project's inpact will continue thereafter, because the project has instituted
quality improvement indLeators and mechanisms vhich will not only continue in
the project institutions but which are already spreading to other universities
throughout the nation.
1.26        The project established a central project implementation unit
within DGHE as the focal point for project planning, implementation and
assessment. This CPIU is a permanent unit of the Directorate and will
continue to function. It not merely facilitated the physical aspects of the
project, but it also permitted an on-going dialogue among universities. This
is a major achievement whose benefits have been recognized; its functions are
likely to be maintained.
1.27        At the time of appraisal this project contained one of the largest
technical assistance provisions of any Bank education project. One of the
features emerging during implementation was the importance of utilizing many
short-term ezperts as opposed to a few long-term ezperts. University
academics, specialized in their own field of study, often have difficulty
undertaking overseas assignments because of their own teaching and research
commitments. MUCIA turned this to advantage in this project by reducing the
length of time most professors spent in Indonesian universities, vhile
trebling the number of advisers so used in teaching, administration,
counselling, and research in the project institutions. Lecturers were able to
focus on specialized topics and encourage students to receive maximum exposure
to new ideas. Under the University II project, however, this short-term
expert concept has been challenged by the Ministry of Education, as has
participation by Indonesian faculty in overseas workshops, conferences and
fellowship programs. It is therefore Important that the lessons of this first
phase project not be misunderstood as future projects are implemented.
1.28        One of the most unsatisfactory portions of the project was failure
to utilize the provisions for foreign and local experts who were not part of
the MUCIA agreement. This suggests that the appraisal estimate of need for
such expertise was misplaced, that suitable candidates were not available, or
that during implementation this aspect was neglected. lUCIA experts, in fact,
often provided aA hoc advice on those matters designated for such experts by
the appraisal (para. 1.15). It might have been more effective if one agency,
operating under a fixed price contract, was given responsibility to manage all
technical assistance, including the hiring of local management and aducation
consultants over whom considerable uncertainty seemed to exist within CPIU.
The two external agencies involved in the technical assistance aspects of this
project, the British Council and lUCIA, both performed effectively. It seems
that such international agencies contribute experience and resources which are
not available to local personnel, and by working more openly alongside such an
agency, DGHE can build up its own capabilities.
Bank Performance
1.29        During pre-appraisal, the Bank team realized the flaws in
preparation and proposed a radical departure which focussed the project on
planning, management and staff development. This focus was reinforced



- 9 -
throughout the project. Supervision teams provided on-going, informal
technical assistance, only some of which was heeded by the LPIUs and CPIU.
Tender procedures and bid evaluations were thoroughly revieved so that
equipment procurement was one of the more effective aspects of the project
(para. 1.20). Frequent visits were made by Bank staff throughout the life of
the project, although the project could have benefited from more visits by a
Bank educator, given the ambitious educational policy targets.
1.30        To overcome the slow start which was being experienced in other
education projects as well, a workshop on project implemeutation was arranged
in November 1984. At about the same time, problems in project management were
under discussion and the Bank's Regional Projects Department finally succeeded
in convincing the GOI that projects in the sector, which were becoming more
complex, needed managers of a high calibre and more resources for management
activities. This project benefitted significantly from these efforts, as
demonstrated by the steady improvement in implementation performance that
folloved.
1.31        The Bank was particularly responsive to the budget crunch that
followed the oil crisis, and agreed to increase its financing percentage of
local expenditures. Furthermore, the project description was amended to
accommodate changing needs and priorities in the phasing of project
components, particularly civil works.
1.32        Bank supervision missions supplemented their normal reports with
detailed aide-memoires left with the CPIU. These aide memoires reflected the
difficulties as well as the achievements as implementation proceeded and were
designed to assist the CPIU and LPIUs to take effective action on important
issues. Project staff were able to use them in their discussions with MOEC,
BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance. With the more active involvement of at
least one member of the Bank's resident mission in Jakarta from 1984 and a
change in local leadership of the project, matters raised during supervision
were acted upon more promptly.
1.33        On the negative side, the Bank may not have become sufficiently
involved in the early discussions regarding appointment of an agency to manage
the technical assistance. The Government's two year abortive negotiations
with UNESCO seriously delayed implementation of the project. The Dank could
have taken a more active role. Furthermore, during the NUCIA contract period,
the Bank seems to have maintained minimal contact with the agency other than
to note its annual reports. Greater attention by supervision teams to the
other experts' provisions proposed under the project also may have helped the
Government to obtaining such assistance. For a project of this nature, it
seems that the Bank did not always provide maximum technical input at the
appropriate stages.
Borrower Performance
1.34        The establishment and staffing of the CPIU was a major achievement
of the project. It opened a communication network with the universities as
well as established the mechanisms for project management. The effectiveness
of the CPIU and the LPIUs was hampered initially by appointment of academics
with little managerial expertise who also retained their academic duties.
Lack of experience in procurement and in working with the Government's
budgetary processes caused serious difficulties. Translation of documents,



- 10 -
including the audit reports (the last two of which still have not been
received by the Bank), posed problems for the CPIU. After the project
Implementation workshop, and a change in project director in 1984, project
management improved and the pace of implementation quickened.
1.35        The complexity of developing a thorough university development
plan, of establishing concepts and priorities, and of attending to detailed
procedures were not sufficiently accepted by those involved at central and
local levels. By not clearly establishing lines of authority and
responsibility both the LPIUs and the CPIU were unable to convey their views
effectively to contractors, university administrators or government officials.
As a result, actions were taken at all levels which were neither consistent
nor in accord with what project staff had agreed with the Bank.
Lessons
1.36        Many of the findings and lessons of this project have already been
put into practice by the Bank and the Borrower in subsequent projects.   The
most notable ones are:
(a)   Project Management.  Managers should not only be dedicated and
able, but should have good knowledge both of Bank procedures and
of the inner workings of the local administration. The Project
Director's qualifications and management capabilities have proven
to be extremely crucial for the success of a project.
Improvements in project implementation performance were immediate
as soon as a highly qualified full-time Project Director was
appointed to the project. Another factor that significantly
contributed to improved performance was the creation of a new
disbursement category for project management and supervision
allowing loan financing of PIU expenditures for management and
supervision. To the extent possible, and depending on project
design, this example was followed in subsequent projects in
Indonesia.
(b)   Training in Project Nanagement.  It is crucial to ensure
familiarization of project staff with Bank and local procedures.
The November 1984 Implementation workshop contributed
significantly to the understanding of Bank assisted projects.
Performance improved in several projects as a result of this
workshop.
(c)   FlexibllitX.  Both the Bank and the Borrower appreciated the need
to make adjustments and modifications as the project evolved. The
reallocation of funds, the purchase of different types of
equipment, the inclusion of construction and modifications to the
technical assistance program, are examples of flexible
interpretations of the project document which have been for the
good of the project.
(d)   Institutionalization of Project Management.  The project
benefitted from establishing both a central implementation unit
and local units at each of the three project universities (para
1.13). These units are now integrated into the permanent
organizational structures of the DGHE and the universities (P3Ts),



- 11 -
which continue to operate as planning and implementation vehicles,
for physical development. The project also demonstrated the
flexibility and professional attention possible when an agency
external to the Government manages the technical assistance
program (para 1.14).
(e) alanning and MonLtoring. The project has laid the foundation for
future planning, monitoring and evaluation in higher education.
One of the more difficult concepts to accept has been the need for
thorough, patient and detailed planning and critically objective
thinking prior to implementation action.
(f)   Computerization.  The establishment of a Management Information
System (MIS) under the project, and its gradual expansion through
UNINET, wK a major step towards the effective collection,
analysis and dissemination of data (para. 1.16). The
computerization of these data and the training of personnel
established an essential base for further development. Linked to
other information systems and monitoring systems (such as NES)
such computerization can become a powerful management tool.
(g)   Indigators.  The set of indicators proposed at appraisal were used
as the basis for designing measures to quantify various aspects of
development within the project. The value of such indicators has
been established. UGM pilot tested an enhanced range of
Indicators and these have now been instituted generally into the
university system through the MES (para 1.16).
(h)   Staff Development.  The quality of university lecturing,
administration and research is expected to rise as a result of the
more than 400 staff vho completed fellowship programs abroad (Part
III. Table 3.6). Staff who remained in Indonesia also gained from
their interaction with the 90 professors who visited under the
NUCIA contract. The project demonstrated that a large overseas
program is feasible, that effective management can optimize
opportunities for varied fellowship experiences and that short-
term visiting experts (who often learn the language and return)
are very effective in imparting their specialized knowledge (paras
1.14, 1.27).
(i)   Finacinjf.  In view of unpredictable counterpart funding, loan
financing should selectively support priority items on a higher
percentage, rather than disbursing against many categories at
lower financing percentages.
(j) Lenathy Negotiations for Teehnical Assistance. The project
suffered lengthy negotiations for technical assistance. This
could have been avoided by preparing the Borrower during the
preappraisal and appraisal stages to be ready for contract signing
as soon as the project became effective.
(k)   Durstion of Technical AssistancQ Assignments.  The project was
optimistic in expecting visiting professors of high standing to
stay in Indonesia for long periods. In fact, a very interesting
lesson emerged from this experience. As the services of some



- 12 -
high-demand foreign experts in highly specialized fields could
only be procured on a short-term basis, some of these assignments
were actually more cost effective than longer-term involvements in
undergraduate courses because they required the experts to conduct
seminars and workshops focussing on important topics in their
field. The tasks were product-oriented, and upon departure, most
experts produced valuable reports on their subject matter, based
on carefully designed TORs. Under similar circumstances, the
other two university projects are following the same example.
(1) TrainWin. The use of cascading training methods (training of key
staff, who in turn train others, etc.), proved very cost effective
and should be explored in future projects.
(in)  Phasina of Civil Works.   Financing of site development as an
independent preparatory activity did not yield the desired effect.
On the contrary, it actually created problems, as site engineering
was designed prematurely and contraeted before the campus master
plans were completed. Consequently, many revisions had to be made
later, including additional works which, while not considered
initially, were later found to be necessary.
(n)   Local Consulting Firms (Architectural and Engineering).  The
capabilities of local consulting firms to respond to the
engineering and architectural design needs of the project were
overestimated. Although international firms were used in joint
venture with local firms, at the preliminary stages of campus
master plans, because the local firms who had primary
responsibility for the proposals did not follow the joint
recommendations when plans were finalized, and later revisions
changed the overall concepts dramatically. Furthermore, the area
that needed international experience was not campus design, but
site engineering, planning and management of construction
activities, and most importantly packaging of civil works. This
lack of understanding led to piece-meal development contracted to
small provincial contractors, who were unable to carry out the
work in a satisfactory manner, in terms of timeliness and quality
of workmanship.
(o)   Participation of Users in the Review of Civil Works Xronosals.  In
view of the excessive interference of the users during
construction, and the many changes that they caused at extra cost
to the project, future efforts should ensure that the users's
needs are taken into consideration before construction begins.
The project should have explored better mechanisms to involve
users and beneficiaries in the review of project components that
concern them directly.



- 13 -
PART IS
hAIN FINDINS AND LESSONS (BORRONER)
2.1         This section is comprised of a Completion Report submitted by the
DEE of the Ministry of Education and Culture, dated October 1988. The DGHE
Completion Report is appended in its entirety (unedited) as the Annex to this
document.
2.2         The Report emphasizes the quantitative achievements of the project
which, therefore, have not been stressed In Part I. The extensive tables and
annexes provide essential and comprehensive data and have been referenced
throughout this PCR.
2.3         Comments and questions relating to the DGEE Report were
transmitted to the CPIU with the Invitation to present a revised version. The
version that was submitted in April (still dated October 1988) is revised
slightly (from the earlier October 1988 draft) but still contains errors and
does not fully respond to the comments raised by Bank staff.



- 14 -
PART III
TABLES AND COMMENTS
3.1         Related Bank Loans.  IDA and Bank lending for education prior to
1981 had concentrated on specialized training to produce low- and middle-level
technical and agricultural workers. teacher training for primary, secondary
and technical schools, training of public administrators, improvement in the
quality of schooling, and expansion of educational opportunities.  Three of
these projects had touched high-level manpower development through minor
interventions into the higher education sub-sector.
Table 3.1:  RELATED BANK LOANS IN THE HIGHXR EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR
oa-.      t c o.                            Year    -          -of:
Approved        Lon
.-- ::: ;     . :i                   :9.-   . 4,: .:
Ln~~ 12~7   W~urth ~4ucati4m         1976.3.
Ii,  59..   ci.u..   a.y                    4.itbnology  .  18  97.-
--; 144.ge Edosi                 v4oiuet            1988          1i40. 3
3.2         A sub-sector study on higher technical education in 1978 led
directly to a loan to establish a new polytechnic system. The initial venture
into university education followed a Government project proposal with UNESCO
assistance resulting in Loan 1904-IND: First Phase of a University
Development Program. This loan was seen as the underpinning for future Bank
involvement in university education. Seven subsequent loans in seven years
have assisted the development of higher education.
3.3         Project Timetable.  The first education sector review in 1973
identified shortages and inadequacies in higher- level manpower. The
Government responded tentatively to Bank proposals in 1977. The first real
identification of a possible proJect came during the preparation of the
Polytechnic project in Felbrnary 1978 and was enhanced following the
development of an initial project brief in June 1978. The ambitious project
timetable experienced delays from the outset with UNESCO having difficulty in
fielding a preparation misslon. Vith portions of the proposed proJect
insufficiently prepared, the Dank's pre-appraisal mission altered the emphasis
and scope of the project from hardware to policy development. Because of the
magnitude of possible involvement in university education, the appraisal team
proposed a two-phased lending program. This concept was appealing to both GOI



- 1S -
and the Bank. The eaphasis for Loan 1904 was thus on thorough and
far-reaching staff development, academic and campus planning and project
management. The second phase (which had been only appraised in outline) was
intended to concentrate on physical facilities for UI, UGH, and UNAND and
expansion of staff development to other than the three initial institutions.
Table 3.2:  PROJECT TIMETABLE
Itam -  ;-     LMDate ?Fl Xnn,      d  mae            D  .j$ute
- :0}-t.........   .. .     .......
'dentif'tion                                                       ,7"'
Prothe et Itht tehia7/7kac   otst  frtemjrcopnnswr
noPrgeparntiln MayC 1984 (prs  1.4.                                /1a/e7poetieco,grae
II, Tabl  3.4).r " I
Loan egott( -onmillion)
Loan~jjntus                                                  13/f
.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ,. ...S  .........
3.4        Loan Disbursements. Slow Initial disbursements were due. in part,
to the fact that technical assistance contracts for the major components were
not signed until May 1984 (para. 1.14). with a new project director, greater
understanding of local budgetary processes and stricter attention to bid
processing, the level of disbursements improved considerably in 1986-88 (Part
III, Table 3.4).
Table 3.3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ milLion)
A~~tuMsRSfbt4.... ..~3            *      4    4      .      .
pat*  .t  ~~~1 .. . .. ..  ..4
1-dN" WSS



- 16 -
3.5         Loan funds were twice reallocated in order to provide greater
responsiveness to the devaluation of the Rupiah, a change In the percentage of
civil works to be financed, changing project priorities and the dlstribution
of unallocated funds.
Table 3.4:  DISBURSEMENT GRAPH
..    .......   : . . 'X.' - , 5 .    .  .   _
'* ""' "* ' ' ' ' "D.' .: .' . .   .. . . . .  Y.
'.'~~~~~~ ., .",  .. S:     ' ...   ' ' '    .  '    '
45.0~~~~~~W
,,.  %a           ;S9y .==    -i *S iit. ..., .  -1   . *  . .          --
.- -. . .                                         -
".A~~~~~
t~~~ -   -Ja                                                -     
1:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...4.
.6~~~~~~~~~O
~~M~~~d SAt. U~~~~~~~~~TJW~~~~1!  +  ACTWsL~~~~~......



- 17 -
Table 3.5: DISBURBENSMTS BY CATEGORY
Ir4orAoyt0$             Xto.       *tby             ctM      I 4wireSe 4dsreseq)
.. - . : c- a t4 iaL^ ................. X t   FXnencag .i at...  .  < as
..rawt -  -OAla:::...- ; - D   .r8ed.0F, ,At,lRevised
16*                 t1
4I*~                .         j.   1OG               7OI40        1 :00    e t)
miI    Mt                            6                        X %S)  .S)
3.6gmen     P         0Sc    .Rfmntto  Inicaos   For. thls compl     larg
-.Ex    r-II                             . 
A0"1MAUm                                 gm-a ~aa~~Nvht14  S  sUI14,2.#
3.6         Project Implementation Indicators. For this complex, large
project a number of educational indicators and policy measures were specified
at appraisal (SAR, Annex 2). with few exceptions these were achieved. In
addition, the SAR listed the square meter area for specified campus
development of physical facilities and the number and nature of fellowships
and specialist services (Annex 6). Table 3.5 summarizes these indicators
which complement the fulfillment of covenant conditions listed in Table 3.9
and the project results provided in Table 3.8.



- 18 -
Table 3.6:   PROJECT IMPLENTSNATION  - IMDICATORS
i.dcitors                      Apwrtast Tagt         vatpt "to           Act&im  (Sept 1988)
1. Te4o n     keord                                                   Juy 9S
- ) Ton flS; credit hr.Week          9-12                                          8.5
b)   onr-tomshing creit bre..Ik.        3                                          about 6.5
c) Nanagat      tdtietQ n            4-Sx of "E of academic                        aboA 13.5
staff tfe * 2
2. esef:i studnt i tE          -                                      July 1985
-   4) "IgnnUc as                                                                    11tX
b) Ec1=0os                           1:20:
c) Agricultu:2
3 lUtIlz    analIifewsl" ! e{litlas                                   Phas II
LOMM10                                                 d~~0-7           bout 451
b) Clas                              70-0X                                            bt 45t
4. Stde nt ullefo                        At ltst aw ex_ In            July 1985        about 701
edittlan to the fimal
At lw rictftIOn twic         July 1985        rePatitlmn rate
about 1.18
6. rrmti                                 For Om semeter fotlowing    Juty 1985
failuro In two-thirid of
credits In previous sster
fat two in mre than 50S of  July tW
credits durfng prOation
- . Ffineme    Aid                       To daout 10U of students     July 98          Provided to about 11X
9. AcaduIlk azaliffcattea                iAbout 50t of stsff hold     Phs it           cbut 451
adv- ned dwerem. Bas4c
courses taht by etaff
with adv4ced degre.                           about 55%
Firat year cu     taut                       au
bV staff vith advancd des.
sw t  pHnmm  evaluated  July 1981             about 45X
10. 1pmtr|mtiona1    i                   Textbooas nd reference       July 1985       oe 901
books assfgned
osted course outllns
reiewed          sJuly 92                      aut 90X
t1. " ||S} t^aitStfesffi ms.1;
b)ILG.0A.                            105.557                                        N
e) WM                                 7V,S5                                         N
&-lsat E         _       [s           Actuat|
u~~~~H~~~t~~~aU~~~~waZ                                         98~~~~~~(40)
) steff devlomet*                                                                        ,
c) eswotorfug I eveWation              2 (6)        4 (4)
kw)    e       faforatien              5 CII)       4 (6)                           2 (2.2)
.3 rmi.wraft div. efflSeer8 
f)      _     treme6t t                             2ini}
lit . -  witzl   .              w (Z0         2 (05   )                       0 (0)
b)stff dewogmontI18 (45)                        177 (460)        NIA           391 (750
1s feln11   1l ra41 fn  Istif                                                           MS)
-) gg  E        F                    188 (45) 1(44 0)              246 tlU)         7(3.5)
. n  _  ttciiSnlW             130 tIn UIU   20 st$          710(NA1I{*S
- :- : -: proclirantG t*0 0                         10 t5W     .       5 4920049
b. 'procurementOW bf                      ise                            (UScopies
t~~~~~~~~~~~U4. ^3S - 
0) :rsiatatIiut S prioting                120 tlttey                   123 tides l ra. lted
- . -.- ..-B::;>  ' . ............. -; -. . - - .56 tit 1#s  rite
re            rfi  a-d q tery           ts      C letln Report           s12  t  8.
'doter In sections 12- 4 13 n9e ffus io- S refa  to reeb r. of st...    yer.



- 19 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT COSTS
(in US$ million)
1t Al rarst EstImSoe   flevsed fEtimetes. .1986.   . -  - 
-toat foreign lotst   toest 1 foroign T1tt   Leost ri tOtin Totot -
oeDvetquent   13.0  3.S  16.5   6.8    9.7  16.5    6.0    8A  14.1
0t. &qu gaent   1.0  3.8  4.8      1.0    6.9  7.9      0.1    7.:  7-7
3.- -stift vev.  0.3  11.,3 t1.6   0.3   16.8   MI  t-0.5 . -16. 0  '14 
4. .Spciatist St". 0.3  9.1  9.4   0.3    6.S  6.8       0.0    6.4  6.4
:-.: S.-- . P Sn. Xrv. - 0.0  5.3  5.3  0.9    4.9  4,.9    0.0   4..   4.?
6.-Kn-gu.n.     -         -0.0  -               0.2     0. -          0' 
7: C@,t1npoc1as   5.6  12.0  17,6        -     -       - v
.. Al.      20.2  45.0  65.2    8.4   45.0 - .53.4    .64 4.   49.7
li~tes.-g sIEtotd frau dal ten DE tCH etE   ReoVett- .   art--
3.7         Proiect Costs and Financing.  At appraisal it vas estimated that
the Bank would finance only 20X of the cost of campus development. This
percentage was changed to 80X in the tvo subsequent amendments to the Loan
Agreement because DGHE had insufficient counterpart funds. This change among
others greatly increased the rate of disbursementu after 1985 with a total of
USS30 million disbursed between 1985 and 1987.
3.8         The Government devalued the Rupiah from Rp. 625 at appraisal in
early 1980 to an average of Rp. 836 in 1983 and Rp. 1,389 in 1986.  At the
same time, the government development budget allocation for higher education
peaked in 1985/86 at Rp. 156.8 billion but was drastically cut over the next
two years. This is in part reflected in the greatly reduced DGHE contribution
to this project. While not an accurate conversion, the actual total local
cost of Rp. 11.2 billion (US$6.6 million) is only slightly below the
originally estimated total local costs of Rp. 12.6 billion (US$20.2 million).



- 20 -
Table 3.8: PROJECT FINANCING
Souo ePl-nd  . .                             .inl
..,onS  m-lUo           :          Xmii       X
IBD.   45.0                      69                  43.04        87
.0                      20 .. .2 af    31               6.6. b/    1Xf:3-
a/   Including 2.0 for customs duties and taxes..
b/   Estimate by CPIU.
3.9         Prolect Results.  By tabulating eight measures of efflciency,
comparisons can be made for each university.  In Table 3.8 the appraisal data
are indicated for the base year, usually 1978/79 and the targeted year,
usually 1989/90. Table 3.8 was compiled from the SAR and the DGHE report.
Table 3.9: PROJECT RESULTS: EFFICIENCY MEASURES
1.  Average Years of Study  (Ideal - 5.0)
8wAts          :                                   U..Mff..
1978   198197970   1986         1978   190
8"in#ing    .  ao .0  7.0  9.4   7.6
Scietxce/Neth        8.0   6.$      7.0   6.8        8.5   6.0
Econeii8  -8.4                     M7.    6.3       10.0     -
rICUIt* ..                   -         -    -       10.0   S.O
Ai1Oi iiu y*                                         7.6  -.0
2.  Student Enrollment
Facutlty   .Ll.   ;
19787  18/87   1989190    1;S 791818   99/0       178/79  1986/8  1989/9
Engtneerirg     1,700  -,52  -3,000      3,350   4,658   4,0         -     a5s
Scter"ce$th     1i     1454 -1*5900  2.,20   1,710   2,80          40   1,153   1,300
Ecofics        1,:41  1,435   2,500      1,550   2,030   2,0       620   2,8    1,200
Agriculture                                                       W650    975    700
Anint _,HusbaI*    -      -                                        340  ,_M    400



- 21 -
Table 3.9 con't.
3. Percentage of Graduates (of total enrollment)
.auly .92                             196?.'     ',                           .
4.  Student Flow, 1986/87
5.  Students Rece .vlng Financial kid (as X          of total enroll.ent)
Pvob  lstn              8.                      16....7 .......
406''>'''''''''"'    
5.  Stent  Reeiin  FnnilAd(sIottaerlmn)
Agtcutewbtut*l       .or          -*C                       -. 19::--   . 
Note; ApONteet trust for 985 wee 102.~~~~~o  A.
6.  Permanent Staff
... ~ ~ ~ ~ Ptt :.:.W -...U.................. 10
PeMty    Wa   1984  1987 1981    ~~~~~~~~~197$  was  in   ot 17* I16   1Q89
. .. .     ... .    -r   .   o 0- t   . X   6 01      1  '  -  -------
: M ..::.:.., .:.:............ :-    -:  ................  t.: ..-- .i'  .: :-:  .   ..   .         .o....,,.
_                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s



- 22 -
Table 3.9 con't.
7. Staff Qualifications
S.  Staff Work Load by Faculty, 1987
-_. .. . . ...
[- S B -t--:'. ... .... ....
m      X          .       ..-            . .... *79  =*    4  6              1          0
0,..,. 4 RMItP... ,*                                       I , -   -
*1    36(4*) 54  11    371)5) 4)  *..:,:., A   6(*     141  9
8.,StaffVokLd by F lty,. 17.............                           19'
:; S: -  ..........................       :: v:i . .  .. ..........:.  ..  . nj..... ...
t                      .-          . ....              t
k    60,460, ~ ~      ~       ~      14          4       3.       1.
AUIfI*UShAdIV   ..A.t> .. .....  .       .......6                                    1.



- 23-
Table 3.10:   STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Apoeluet                                                                  Sau/#ml
Covenant                                                      ..je..
3.01  Sstabtisiupnt of a Prject    -              t~askt*   e(PU 10d rojctUtsI each
tntunuintakFretivest sMoedadsafd
Otilol aRation specIa ist edonl a fw
3.03        iprneflpotdodsad*BHaonflttmoet.
services procured W the Loan.Ami tW
3.0(a  Sbussonofplns-sre    MtiAcs-            -Aaei   tcasstrpnsAauitted.
aunts, work and ~~~~~~~~ocurmmnt  ..:r?   Ban
b). .   at. en..e f.rcors,.ank- .                            t..t....  repots   bitdreual,tn
Mibul55Ia Of regular resorts4           .o.... ..t ..   d facrlt ti9.
3.05  Land acqsisltion eat righs  -       Lest for *11 tiny. &mIwmn tin.Inling new
acquisition.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~t
the teiopIon
3.07        Peeopsun  of polcie to ipoa           Aeowat reor   "1 oa   eot  tmta   te  hnreview
3.08        Conset of.author Sld 4b*1itV           . 7             Wite p 1ti bt*tt  t uit to Bat*..j
andauItors reomrts.                   f h
fica  yea



- 24-
Table 3.11: USE OF 3AMK RESOURCES: STAJEVEEKS BY STAGE
AWfl1UI~~~~~~    0~~.1. .j3. Su..... ts. ..     .           
PCI                                    .  .        -      -                         3$       33~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .. 
Other                                         -      *           46                     #6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. .. ..



- 25-
Table 3.12: MISSION DATA
icn~~ity  anm        4~~,    4~~    .W1t of
Aetfvt*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r*ac
Crartisal  . .     .  S        *7       13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ....*
~prant           /15*S r%45 
IV         VW26/                             6       A 
1        3/*3fl246                46        so       a                    3     ..
mu        43./5a           2                           .                     
xiv          023/                            16         ...                    
ccrpletla      1/t9-f1i10       1       3 2               A                    -
TOTAL                                                  W 9
s/  pecaly cds: Aa achtec  B* snalt.C -uuasehq  aior,0  sw"immtltI  uuuuiait.    f *gnram
Itpeeter,  fr scinc twaor tar,4  techncal tr4ter   aaaei  ranespcaltt aarhtctI
di   Me.ostaff dips eoraestimateo a partie  fte I  h  11 spent antteprjc  p  oPhrMrjolalso wr
.'perviee  by'the taslon Or If"n assmisaUim mtat :Ol vet etq in'. tfe 9t for the estimlodiuiom astew of
do"s.



-27-
U-DIX
First University Development Project
Loan No- 1904-IND
COMPLETION REPORT
Mnistry of Education and Culture
Indonesia
Directorate General of Higher Education
Jakarta. October 988



- 29 -
TABLE OF CONTEWTS
I. PROJECT BAGROUND
1.01. Socio Economic Setting    ...................... 1
1.02. The Educational System ...... ................ 4
1.03. Issues in University Education ..... ......... 7
1.04. Repelitas .................................... 9
1.05. The Appraisal Report ........................ 11
1.06. The Loan and the Project .................... 14
2.PPRKJCT IMPLEMENTATION AND KANAGRENT
2.01. Loan Effectivenees .......................... 18
2.02. The DGE  (Central) Task Force ........1...... I8
2.03. The Local Project Unit .................. ..21
2.04. Technical Assistance ...................... -23
2.05. Fellohips ...............                   25
2.06. Visiting Professors ...............         29
2.07. Specialist Services ...............         32
2.08. The Honitoring and Evaluation System (MES) ..34
2.09. Hausg-nt Information Systm (HIS) .37
2.10. University Development Office ............... 40
2.11. Managemmut Training Proram for
University Administrators ................... 41
2.12. Policy Development Studies .43
c:vngx/23



- 30 -
2.13. Campus Kasterplan  ........................... 46
2.14. Land Acquisition .51
2.15. Profegsional Services .52
2.16. Civil works .54
2.17. The Managaement of Construction Works .59
2.18. The Purchase of Books and Journals           60
2.19. Book Translation ............................ 61
2.20. The Training of Editora .................... . 62
2.21. The Training of Librarians .................. 63
2.22. The Purcas8e of Equippment .64
2.23. World Bank Review Missions .................. 67
2.24. The Fulfilment of Covenants ................. 69
3.PRDJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.01.Appraisal Estimates ........................... 74
3.02.Actual Costs .................................. 74
3.03.The Reallocation of Project Funds .79
3.04-Disbursements .80



- 31-
4.PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOMES
4.1. General                                 ........... 84
4.2. Student Flow.                                                         85
4.3. University Output ................................... 86
4.4. Financial Aid to Students .91
4.5. Staff in Post .93
4.6. Student: Teacher Ratios .92
4.7. Staff Qualification ........................8.......... ,
4.8. Staff Work-load ................................... -.97
4.9 Inatructural Materials ..................9.............. 8
c:una/p29



- 32 -
LIST OF TABLES
Table  1 Growth of Domestic Products (compared to 1983) .... 2
Table  2 The Devaluation of the Rupiah .................... 3
Table  3 Budget Allocation for Education and DGE .... ..... 3
Table  4 Cost Eatimates by Category ....................... 12
Table  5 Categories of Items in the Loan ................... 14
Table  6  Number of Fellows (Appraisal) ..................... 25
Table  7 Number of Fellows (Actual) ........................ 27
Table  8  Number of Man-mnths .............................. 28
Table  9 Visiting Professors.. .         ............ 31
Table 10 The Provision of Specialist Services .............. 33
Table 11 Visits by Review Missions to the Project .......... 67
Table 12 Actual costs compared to the Loan Agreement ...... 75
Table 13  Summary of Project Costs .......................... 79
Table 14 Two Reallocations of Project Funds ................ 80
Table 15  Disbursement of Project Funds .........     ...... 82
Table 16 Student Enrollment ......... 88
Table 17 The Flow of Students ......                        89
Table 18 Average Year of Study ......                       90
Table 19  Average Year of Study (1978) ......               91
Table 20 University Output ......                           86
Table 21 8tudents Receiving Financial Aid ......            91
Table 22 Number of Staff in Post ......                     93
Table 23  Student Teacher Ratios ......                     95
Table 24  Percentage Distribution of Staff by Qualification.96
Table 25  Staff Work-load 1986 ............................... 97
Table 26 Books per Student Ratio... 98



- 33 -
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex  1 Indonesia School Education Structure ............. 100
Annex  2 Directorate General of Higher Education ........... 101
Annex  3 Central Project Unit at DGH ..................... 102
Annex  4 Key Staff of Project ............................. 103
Annex  5 Terms of Reference with WUCIA .------------------ 104
Annex  6 Fellowships for Master Degree ..................... 108
Annex  7 Fellowships for Doctoral Degre .................. 116
Annex  8 Fellowships for Master Degree (Non-Project) ..... 124
Annex  9 Fellowships for Doctoral Degree (Non-Project)......132
Annex 10 Specialist Services/Visiting Professors .......... 142
Annex 11 Strengthening University  anag      ement Syst  ....... 148
Amnex 12 Policy Measures and Targets ....................... 149
Annex 13 Definitions of Some Project Indicators ............ 151
Annex 14 Schedule of Facilities.University of Indonesia.... 155
Annex 15 Schedule  of Contracts ............................ 156
Annex 16 Staff : Number.Qualifiation and work-load .        164
Annex 17 Number of library Books ... 166
Annex 18 Based on MKS data recorded .                       167



- 34 -
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
DGHE              Directorate General of Higher Education
FKT               Fakultas   Keguruan   Teknik  (Faculty    of
Technical Bducation)
H34IS             Higher   Bducation   Management  Information
System
IPB               Institut   Pertanian  Bogor  (Institute   for
Agriculture Bogor)
ITB               Institut Teknologi Bandung
ITS               Institut Teknologi Surabaya
SI               Institut Seni Indonesia (Yogyakarta)
HIS               Management and Information System
MRS               Monitoring and Evaluation System
MOE               Ministry of Education (and Culture)
HUCIA             Midwest   University  Consortium   Activities
(OHIO -USA)
PUSILKOM          Pusat Ilmu Komputer (Computer Center at UI)
RPELITA           Rencana   Pembangunan  Lima  Tahun  (5  year
development plan)
STH               Sekolah    Teknologi   Henengah    (Technical
School,secondary)
S4A               Sekolah Menengah Atas (Senior High School)
SGP               Sekolah Henengah Pertama (Junior High School)
U01N              Universitas GaJah Hada (Yogyakarta)
UNAND             Universitas Andalas (Padang)
UNHAD             Univereitas Hasanuddin (UJungpandang)
UNAIR             Universitas Airlangga
USU               Universitas Sumatera Utara (Medan)
UT                Universitas Terbuka (Open University)



- 35 -
I. PROFJJCT BACKGROUND
1.01. Socioeconomic Setting
1.   In 1969, Indonesia with an estimated population of  115
million, had a  per-capita income of US$ 80.  This  was
considered low even at that time, and the cause wao blamed to
a  stagnated  economy, resulting  in  high  inflation.  The
country was plagued by many other problems.  Education was
especially  hard hit  by lack of funds  resulting  in  poor
anagement.  lack of qualified personnel  including  teachers
and consequently in a low quality of graduates.
2.   The Government was firmly determined  to  rise  above
these problems and launched its first five-year development
plan (Repelita) in 1969. This was an over-all development
effort including all aspects of government responsibilities,
focussing on agriculture and industry. External assistance
was sought in the implementation of successive Repelitas.
3.   The  result of four Repelitas is beginning to  show  in
the  improvemant of many aspects of life in Indonesia.   This
is clearly indicated in the rise of the per capita income to
US$ 540 in 1986. The Government makes every effort to
maintain this encouraging momentum by strengthening weak
spots in the system.



- 36 -
3.   One  of these is in higher  education.  During  three
Rep&litas, the Government has succeeded in improving the
quality  of primary and secondary education to  some degree.
Obviously, time has come to shift attention to hisher
education.
4     It should be noted that Indonesia was not exempted from
the decline in economic growth caused by global recession.
This is shown in the following figures.
Tabel 1.      GROWTH OF DOMESTIC PRODUCTS (in X of GNP)
1984      1985     1986     1987
Agriculture       (X)        5.52      2.87     2.49     1.99
Industry                    15.52     11.48     5.51     7.26
Transport/communication      8.95      3.41     1.33     3.50
National average             6.13      2.17     3.21     2.56
(Kompas 30 December 1987)
5.   To cope with the demands of the economy, the Government
many  times has to depreciate    the Rupiah aaainst the US $
dollar.    The different rates from  1971 to 1986 are  shown
in Table 2.



- 37 -
Table 2.  THE DEVALUATION OF THE RUPIAH AGAINST THE US$
1971   1 US $ worth   Rp. 390   to Rp. 420
1978                 Rp. 415   to Rp. 623
1983                 Rp. 702.5 to Rp. 970
1986                 Rp. 1,134 to Rp. 1.644
6.   Budaet    ullocations for  education   were    rising
optimistically  from the fiscal year 1982/83 to 1985/86. but
afterwards show a sharp plunge from 1.510 billion Rupiahs in
1s985/86 to 1,021 billion in 1987/88. (see Table 3)
Table 3. BUDGaT ALLOCATION FOR EDUCATION AND DGHB
(in Rp. billion)
Fiscal year         Total education           DGHI
19e2/83                 1,301                119.25  (9.16X)
1983/84                 1,329                109.05  (8.20X)
1984/85                 1,501                123.81  (8.24X)
1985/86                 1,510                156.84 (10.38X)
1986/87                 1,145 (a)            110.52  (9.65X)
1987/88                 1,021 (b)             73.09  (7.15X)
1988/89                 1.075                 59.35  (5.52X)
(Tempo, 9 January 1988)
&m
1.Laporan Tahnman Dirien Pendidikan Tiaggi
2.Bmgian Perencanman DitJen Pendidikan Tingii



- 38 -
1.02. The Educational System
1.   The  Dutch introduced the 7-3-3 system of education to
Indonesia, consisting in 7 years primary education, 3 years
extended primary education followed by another 3 years of
middle level education. There was however another system of
7-5 in which the 7 year primary school war followed by a 5
year middle level school, especially designed for Dutch
students.
2.   After  independence,  the 7 year primary  schoool was
shortened to 6 years. This was followed by the 3 year Junior
high  and  3 year senior high  school.   High  schools are
divided  into  two  streams, one  the  general stream  as a
preparation to university education and the other stream is
specialized to prepare youngsters for work in offices or
industry. (Annex 1)
3.   Higher  education shows a bigger diversification.   The
oldest are the 5 year universities which offer courses in
different   fields,   such as  medicine,  law, economics,
literature, science etc.   Graduates from this 5 year course
obtain  the  sarJana SI degree.   A further 2 year course
gives  a  graduate  the sarJana S2 degrees  comparable  to a
*crter-degree.    The  sarjina  S3 degree  comparable  to a
doctoral degree can be obtained after another 3 more years of
study.



- 39 -
4.   Separate   from  universities   are   institutes  for
educational  sciences, providing  courses also  of  5  year
duration.   The main objectives of these institutes are to
prepare teachers in narrow specializations such as biology,
mathematics, history etc.    It should be noted here that two
such educational institutes or IKIPs (Institut Keguruan IImu
Pendidikan) namely that in Padang and Yogyakarta have up
graded their faculty for technical teachers or FFT (Fakultas
Keguruan Teknik) through a World Bank loan under the World
Bank Fourth Education Project.  Institutes of technology and
agriculture   offer    courses  in  the   applied   sciences
(mechanical. electrical. animal husbandry etc) which are more
oriented to practical work.
5.   Only   Bandung  and  Surabaya have  an   insitute   of
technology (Known respectively as ITB and ITS) and only Bogor
has an agricultural institute (IPB ).
6.   Polytechnics   offer  3 year courses  of  a  practical
nature.  The first polytechnic in Indonesia was  established
through a grant from the Swiss government. This grant was
used to equip the school located in Bandung with modern
equipment.   Specialist  services needed  in  the   initial
operation were also provided by the Swiss government.



- 40 -
7.    This project seemed to be succesful in filling a much
felt gap between an engineer graduating from the ITB and a
mechanic  coming  from  an  STH.   This was shown  in  the
eagerness of industry to recruit students of the polytecbnic
long before they finish the course.
8.    This gap  seems  to be big  enough  to build   ore
polytechnics.   The World Bani provided funds in support of
building  7 polytechnics spread throughout the  country.   In
1983 a second loan was provided to build another 11
polytechnics.
9.    Quantitatively  the  educational system  is  expanding
rapidly to satisfy demands of the rising population. An yet
IKIPs are not able to cope with these rising demands. To
lessen   the   burden  somewhat, recently  the   government
introduces  diploma courses D1,D2 and D3, each of one yeor.
DI courses are designed for the preparation of primary school
teachers, D2  for Junior  and D3 for  senior  high  school
teachers.



- 41 -
1.03. Inssues in University Education
1.   The  problems and  issues that  trouble  university
education in Indonesia have been exposed in the Appraisal
Report in sufficient detail. It is touched here only for the
sake of continuity in the line of reasoning that leads to the
generation of the project.
2.   Certainly many factors contribute to the existence  of
these undesirable problems.  It should not  be  forgotten
that Indonesia had to base its program for reconstruction on
what had been left from the Dutch time.  Especially higher
education was much neglected in that time.   The problems
that beset highor education are enormous a I need continous
efforts  to  reach  comparable  standards with  noighbouring
countries.
3.   Most of the problems mentioned in the Appraisal Report
are comon to the situation in the country. The scarcity of
funds for instance affects all aspects of life in Indonesia.
The results of neglect in earlier times and the scarcity of
funds are visible in the shortage of qualified personnel.
This shortage affects education more than other government
sectors,  beause education has always been dubbed "dry"  in
Indonesia.  alluding  to the  fact  that  education  is
"unattractive", for Job seekers.



- 42 -
4. The shortage of qualified personnel results in poor
management and in the low quality of education. The strategy
pointed  out  in  the  Appraisal Report  to   start   with
staff development, teaching methodologies and bhe  mm^gmnt
system should thus be seen as a first step.



- 43 -
1.04 Repelitas
1.   The Government of Indonesia, in its deteimination to
rise above the economic problems it inherited from previous
times, launchod its first five year development program in
1969.  This will be succeeded by the second one  in  1974.
These programs are known as flenana P     nubangumn  1dma Tahun
(Rspelita ) (Five year development plan).
2.   The   Repelitas  cover  all aspect   of  Govern_ment
activities. Not only do they deal with the economic sectors
(industry,  agriculture.  commuunication,   transportation,
irrigation, roads etc), but also with education, religion,
culture and arts.  There is definitely a list of priorities.
It is understandable that agriculture, irrigation, roads,
comunication and industry have first priority above arts and
culture for instance. It can only be regretted however that
education does not enjoy high priority until the last three
Repelitas.
3.   The  impact  of four Repelitas  so  far  are  quite
improssive. mew buildings for office use are rising at a
rate unknown before; new shops spring up in the big cities as
signs of a growing economy. Roads are much improved and air
tranporatation grows steadily at an annual rate of 17 X.
The annual growth of four-wheel vehicles is estimated at 15
X. causing an increasing congestion in the citles. (As yet
Indonesia still lags far behind its neigibours in per capita
incom).



- 44 -
4.   Against   this  bright  backgrownd   in   material
development, we have to proJect a less bright picture in the
hunan sector.    It  is a well-known fact  that  teachers in
Indonesia are  in short supply.  There  are more  teaching
vacancies than can be filled by new graduates from IKIPs.
This applies to all levels in the educational system and is
uost severe in vocational and technical schools as it also is
in tertiary education. The Government however is working
hard to overcome this problem.



- 45 -
1.05. The Appraisal Report
1.   In March/April 1979. a pre-appraisal mission visited
Indonesia  comprising Mr.S.-.Ashar  (mission   leader  and
education economist), Mr.Hon Chan Chai (general educator),
Mr.W.Haddad  (science  educator).  Mr.J.Lubbock   (technical
educator), Mr.R.Makharita (management specialist consultant)
and Mr.A. Stan (architect).  This mission was followed by  an
Appraisal  Mission  in  January/February  1980  composed of
Mkr.Asher, Haddad and Stau.
2.   The Appraisal Kission submitted a document to the Bani
in  August  1980  containing   information  and data  that
led  to Loan Agreement 1904-IND.  This document sets out  in
detail the problems of high-level manpower required in the
economic programs of the Government and it recommends ways
how  to meet these requirements.  One for  instance  is by
improving and strengthening university education on a project
basis.
3.   Details are  given  on the financial  aspects of the
proposed project, how to impleaent and manage the project,
the  risks  and benefits inherent to  such  undertakings and
recomunded actions to be taken by the Indonesian Government.
4.   The   objectives   of  the   project  will  be    to
expand enrollmnt and improve physical facilities, improve
quality  of  staff,  strengthen  the management  system   in
oelocted universities, develop policies to improve student
flow, develop instructional materials, establish a monitoring



- 46 -
and evaluation system, a management information system and a
university development office.
5.   Three universities  (University of  Indonesia, GadJah
Mada and Andalan) have ben chosen to be included in this
first phase of a university develoment program.   Selected
faculties in these three universities to be given first
priority are those of engineering, agriculture, economics and
science, being regarded as most supportive to the economic
development programs in the Repelita.
6.   The cost of this first university proJect is  estimated
at US$ 63,2 million of which US$ 45.0 million will be covered
from a World Bank Loan.
7.   The  categories of expenditures to be covered.from the
proceeds of the loan include:
COST ISTIHATIS BY CATEGORY
Table 4
Category                  Loan allocation    (X of category)
(US million)
Civil Works              3,5             (20 X) (*)
Equipomnt                3,8             (80 X)
Fellowships and
Training                11,3             (100 X)
Specialist services      9,1             (100 X)
Professional services   5,3              (100 X)
Contingencieo           12,0
Total                   45,0



- 47 -
(Note  *     (20 X) means that 20X for  the  category civil
works, estimated at the total cost of US* 17.5 million will be
covered  from the proceeds of the loan.  The  remaining SON
will be supplied by the Government in Rupiabs).
8.   The benefits that are expected to be reaped  from  the
project are indentified by the mission an :
a) improvement of university graduates both An quantity and
quality to better meet development  needs
b) improvement of the quality of staff and better teaching
proceses
c) improvement of the mniagement and planning capacity for
administrators at the central level (Directorate General
for Higher Education) and the three project institutions
Being   aware  of  the   autonomous   authority   of
universities,  the mission  noted  as  a  risk  factc,&  the
difficulty in coordinating actions initiated by three quasi
independent bodies.
9.   The Apraisal Report said that to minimize such  risks,
university developrent should be undertaken In staes.
This first project Should thus be regarded as the first phase
of more projects to cam.



- 48 -
1.08. The Loan and the ProJect
1.   The Loan Agreement was signed in November 13,1980 under
Loan 1904-IND with the closing date set at December 31, 1986.
The categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
the loan and the amount for each category was listed as
follows :
Table 5. CATEGORIES OF ITUES IN THE LOAN
category                    Dollar  allocation    X of total
cost of
category
(1) Civil Works                    3,500,000          20
(2) Equipment                      3,B00,000
(a) directly imported                            100
(b) locally manufactured                          95
(c) locally procured import                       75
goods
(3) Fellowships and training       11,300,000        100
(4) Specialist services             9,100,000        100
(5) Professional services           5,300,000        100
(6) Unallocated                    12,000,000
Total        45,000,000
2.   An  stated in the Loan Agreement, the project shall have
the following components:



- 49 -
A. The carrying out of a program to increase the number of
graduates from the Universities of Indonesia, Gadjah Hada
and Andalas ( the "ProJect Universities") in the fields of
engineering, science *agriculture and economics including
business   administration  and  accountancy   (the  -Project
fields"),  through the provision to the Directorate General
of Higher Education (the DGHI) of tecbnical assistance,
architectural and engineering services, site development
works and other related inputs required for :
(1) the development of policies setting standards, measures
and targets for improved utilization of staff and
physical facilities, promotion and graduation, access to
education and quality of education ; and
(2) The preparation for construction to expand and improve
the  ProJect Universities,  including   initial   site
development for the new location of the Uaiversities of
Indonesia and Andalas.
B. The carrying out of a program to improve the quality of
university education in the Project fields through the
provision to the DGHE of technical assistance, equipment and
other related inputs required for :
(1) the    improvement   of   academic  and    professional
qualifications of teaching staff at the Project
Universities by providing Jntm all&, about:



- 50 -
- 510 man-years of overseas fellowships and about
- 30 visiting professors, and about
- 50 man-years of overseas fellowships for on-going
programs; and
(2) the increase in the relevance and quantity of university
textbooks and library books, by providing. intaz  iJ:
about
- 150,000 textbooks and about
-  150,000 copies of professional journals and reference
books  in the  Project related fields to  public
universities;
- printing equipment for the Institute of Technology,
Bandung and the University of GaJah Mada;
- services for translation, editing and design of about
120 book titles in the ProJect related fields;
- about 4 man-years of overseas training for editors.
and about 6 man-years of overseas fellowships in
library science and administration for staff at the
Project Universities.
C. The carrying out of a program to strengthen the planning
and maaement capacity of the DGHE, and the university
system, especially the ProJect Universities, through the
provision of tochnical assistance and related inputs
required for



- 51 -
(1) the establishment of :
- a monitoring and evaluation system consisting of a
central unit within DGHB and a local unit at each
Project University ;
- a management information system;
- a University Development office to provide continuing
support   for  investment  in  the  Borrower's  higher
education subsector; and
-  a  management  training  program  for  managers  and
administrators of the DGHH and universities (about  130
DQIN staff and about 700 senior university staff)
(2) strengthening the organization and staffing of the ProJect
Universities  by  preparing master plans  and  staffing  of
central administrative offices at each Project University;
and
(3) the preperation of future investments in the education
sector
c:yopi/pretty sister



- 52 -
2. PRJRCT IPLPDMBTATION AND KANIGffHT
2.01. Loan Effectiveness
1.  The  conditions of effectiveness of the  loan are the
establishment of a proJect implementation task force at the
DGUE  and the three ProJect Universities.  The task  force
should   be   staffed  by  qualified   personnel,   whose
qualifications must be acceptable to the Bank.
2.02. The DUE (Central) Task Force
1.  A  task force has been set up in the DUE on an  ad hoc
basis  to   supervise  implementation   of  the  proJect.
Retabliebment of an ad hoc task force can be arranged
relatively  easy since it is done on a project basis.   This
means that it will be financed out of the development budget.
rather than the routine budget, which requires lengthy
processing.
2.  The DUE task force is headed by a director who reports
to the Director General of Higher Education (Annex 2).  This
task force will be responsible for the coordination of
project-specific activities such as staff development,
institutional manaement improvement,  physical  facilities
expansion etc. by issuing guidelines to the university
project *anagemsnt teams.  This means that  the project
creates a new line of coummication parallel to the existing
one.



- 53 -
3.  The  central DGHE  task force  is  organized  in three
sections, an education and training section, a physical
section in charge of civil works, furniture and equipamnt.
and  a financial setion.  A more detailed outline is given
below.
(a) EdWae&tan and trAning- headed by  a chief and
assisted by an educational planner, a training specialist and
two technical asisstants, one for experts and the other for
fellowships.    This section  is  in  charge   of   issuing
guidelines   including   targets  for   enrollmnt,  output,
efficiency, class size, and quality; administering foreign
expert services and fellowhip programs; defining terms of
reference of studies suported under the proJect; implementing
the teaching materials development program; and coordinating
the establishment of monitoring, evaluation and information
systems at the DGHE and the universities.
(b) Rhuicu noettan. beaded by a chief who is assisted
by an architect/engineer and an equipment specialist.   This
section is in charge of ensuring consistency and uniformity
in  capital outlays. budget planning and cost control.  for
providing physical facilities (civil works, furniture and
equimesnt); asisating the universities in writing equipment
specifications and procuring equipment under ICB; assisting
the   universities with  the  preparation   of  alpropriate
accomodation schedules and architects briefs and equiplunt
lists according to directives issued by the education and
training section.



- 54 -
(c)  Ei.nazia1  ftcmin. headed by a chief and  misted
by a cost estimater/controller and an accountant.  The task
of this section in to review and approve, as appropriate, the
requests for developmnt budgets, to provide  necessary
project funds; development of project accountig and auditing
procedures and the preparation of application for
di burseumut; and keeping  control of these aspects  as
conducted by each university. (Annex 3 and 4)
The  first director assigned  to  the  Project  was
dr-Boesyra Zahir, who was reassigned November 1984.  He was
replaced by Dr.Simbolon, who stays at this post until the
proJect is completed in June 1988.



- 55 -
2.03. The local ProJect Unit
1.  The Universities of Indonesia, Gjoah Had- and Andmala
have adsigned the responsibilty for project implementation to
their existing developumnt office which ia under the rector's
office.    A  team  has been  established frou  exisiting
university staff to carry out the educational, physical and
financial aspects of these local sub-projects.   Terms of
reference have been prepared and are acceptable to the Bank.
2.  Civil works will be implemented by the team occording to
guidelines  formulated by the DG[B  task  force.   Contract
award and signing will be the reponsibility of the three
universities, but the central task force will arrange for the
issuance of letters of credit and payment to foreign
suppliers.   Local handling and installation  of equipmnt
will generally be arranged by the local team.
3. For the technical assistance program, the universities
will select candidates for fellowhsip programs on the basis
of agreed selection  criteria and procedur8e.  The DMK task
force will assist  In the selection of experts, and sign
contracts for the experts to be assigned to the universities
after approval by the university concerned.  An ageny
capable of  implementing both the fellowships programs and
specialists' services programs will be  oontracted by the
central task force in consultation with the universities.



- 56 -
4.  The task force will also arrange for training members of
the project  in project anamt, selection and briefing of
architects' fim., election and supervision of civil work}
contracts and the procurement of equipmnt



- 57 -
2.04. Technical Assistance
1. Contact was sought with Midwest Universities Consortium
Activities (MUCIA) of 154 North Oval Mall. Ohio for bandling
the Technical Assistance coponent.  The contract with MUCIA
contains:
- arrangement  for the emplacement of and   support  to
Indonesian staff who will undergo training in the USA and
other contries
the provision of tecbnical services to the Universities of
Indonesia, GadJah Mada and Andalas
- the creation of a management capability in the DGHB for
administering future fellowship programs
2. A  draft contract was presente  to a Bank mission  in
November 1982 to which no objections was given. Pending
Government approval, the contract was expected to become
effective in Januari 1983.  During a Bank migsion review  in
April 1983, it turned out that the earliest expectation for
contract  signing    was May 1983.  The actual signing  took
place on 17 May 1983.
3. This contract with MUCIA was for 48 months for a total
budget of US$ 19,576,610 plus local expenditures of
Rp.460,963,800.-



- 58 -
4.  This contract mms completed  on June 1987.  MUCIA has
carried  out  its  obligation much  to the   satisfaction
of the project as shown in the figures for fellowships and
visiting  professors.  MUCIA has left behind  a cadre of
trained Indonesian personnel, capable of handling similar
programs.
5.   A  PiJnl Report has been presented to the proJect, of
which a draft was completed in April 1988. In total scmm 391
participants (220 X of appraisal) have benefited from this
program with a total of 8764 man-months or an average of 22
months per participant.  More details will be found in  this
coming final report.



- 59 -
2.05. Fellowhsips
1.  The Appraisal Report recommends an overseas training
program  for university staff at two levels, the masters-
degree level and a PhD level, of two and four years duration
respectively. Table 6 gives a breakdown as quoted from  the
Appraisal Report.
Table S. NUMBER OF FELLOWS (APPRAISAL R8PORT)
Engineering  : Science  :eonamics: Agriculsture
University of    PhD  :        PhDM   :  PhD :  M :   PhD: M   :
:Indonesia       :  1:  17:  8 :20    3 : 5 :   -               -
GaJah Mada         11  :26:   4 :16:   1 :5:
Andlas            -      -       8   13    2   8        6    14:
Total          :  21    43    20 :49        6 :18:    6       14:
Total for doctoral degree : 53 fellows x 4 years = 212 man-years
master deAree  : 124 follows x 2 years = 248 mam-years
total           : 177 fellows          = 460 .an-years
2.  Candidates were  selected by each  proJect university.
They were given intoeive Rnglish courses to achieve a level
of competency comparable to Toefl.  The first group of
fellom left Indonesia in September 1981 for the United
States.   The  last group Is expected to  finish  in  August
1990.   Annex 6 to 9 list the nam  of participant  for the
three project universities and non-project universities.



- 60 -
In the actual implimutation of the contract with MUCIA, a
total number of 8764  m.nuonths or 730 -n - years have been
contracted   (159 X  of appraisal).   Not only  the  three
Universities  (UI,UGM, and UNAND) have benefited  from  this
contract, but other institutions like ITB, IPB, UNPAD, UNHAS,
ITS, the Open University etc.  This is shown in the Annexes.
Out of the 8764  .uantbs, only 7701       ---Icmths or roughly 88X
are  for the three proJect universities.  Not all fellowship
programs are completed at the termination of the contract with
WCIA. The costs for programs still outstanding will be taken
over by the oecond University Development Project under Loan
2547  IND  (WB Project XVII).  The number of mauontha  still
outstanding  in estimated at 1170 manmonths (98 man-years)  and
106 participants.
yori/yori



- 61 -
Table 7    1        OF ULLMP (CI'L)
*   ,Na.tw / nf ld  U.1   I                  I      I             5
: ~ ~    ~    ~     I :~ :  :       n: -     :v -   :~D   i:
:N :                                    Stu  PhD :    P   '   :   b :     :   "     :
1. :Ibg           :9:  21: 2:   :  -:-: 2 5:  9: 53 :               :
:2. 2S2 e,tk    : : 14: 17    3   13  14   -    3  52:34X
:-:
3.  1armac          -:  -2   2    2    5:  1:-:-:   7:  3
:4. :BIol            -:-:   2               2               -    2:1 5:  2:
: 5. t G        - : - :  -:  2:  -:  -:  -:  - :  - :  2:
:- :eonw                             2                             2 
:e . :u ic           17i:  9:  5   142  -:  3    -:  -: 22: :
: 7. :Aicult       : -    -r:  5:  2:S:  5: 11: 3: 21: 10:
:S. nima mb:1:-:-: -: 4: 4: -: -: 5: 4
*  --_  :            - 
:9. :ocil & o.lS.:  5S   8:  32  2: -:  -:  -:  -:   8: 10
:-:                                                                   a
11.I                                                         2 
10o. :1               i:  1:  1:  1:  -:  3:  -:  -    2:5
:11. Medicin       :2-    1    -:3    6--:-                    s:  -:
12. LtteI          :  2:  I    I    I    I                     4    3
:13. :cwter Scji.     -:  -:  -5--    -    -    5    9    5:   :
:14. :t                               I             11: 
:15. :o-es,             :1            1:  -:   8:  -:  13:-   23:
:T a t a l       52  52: 62   54: 3: 39 i  48  38  201  193:
c:dmh



- 62 -
Table 8      NUaM  01 IWUDMNIS 0F  3LLAUBIPB UIAINMI
:Mater D: :s         D_ctoa1  Degree           Total
"NO-:Uiveraities   2Particip. IIs mwnth Warticip. Hmath 2PbrUtcip.:4Hm =Kfth
i.2U.I                    622    1,176:        592    1,6068       121:    2,782:
2.4U.G.M.          2       54:      937:       62:    2,066B       1162    3,003X
3.2UNWIAD                  39:      4942       32I    1.422         71:    1,916:
4.: 18                     1s"      236:       25:       2622       442       498:
::                                                                                 :
: 5.:IB                     10:       136:       14:       1332       24:      269
S- . Ur                     42       54          32       422        72       96
; 7.:Othber        :        5        54:         6:      146:       11        200:
* __     *                     .                                                   a
2     otal          2       1932    3,0872      2012    5,677        3942    8.7642
*                                                                                  S



- 63 -
2.06. Visiting Professors
1.   The Appraisal Report sumgested the employmnt  of
visiting profegsors to assist faculty members in the four
selected fields in the development of curriculum and teaching
methods, and aid junior staff in preparing for further
training. They may also serve to fill some gaps left by
Indonesian staff who study abroad or fill teaching positions
for which Indonesian staff cannot be recruited due to teacher
shortages.
2.  An oversas institution will be contacted for recruitment
of foreign professionals according to criteria and schedules
agreed upon with the Bank.
3.  The  institution  contacted was Midwest  Universities
Consortium   for  International Activities  (MUCIA) and  a
contract was signed  in May 1983.   The  first group of
visiting professors arrived in July/August 1984 and were
assigned to the three Universities in Jakarta,   Yogya and
Padang.
4.  The progrm has been successfully completed much to the
benefit of the receiving universities. A total of 59.3
umn-years have been devoted which is close to the 60 man-years
in the Appraisa Report.  In terms of man-years, this bas been
a 98 X succoss. Table 9 exemplifies this in figuren.



- 64 -
5.  The number of persons involved however raised from 30 to
90. This was caused by the fact that many professors were able
to  leave their regular duties only for short periods.   The
a-erage tise spent individually on the proJect was thus 8 man-
months.  This figure may serve for future planning in the sane
field of project activities. (Annex  10)   An additional
benefit to the increased number of visiting professors has
been that more Indonesian staff are involved in the transfer
of knowladge.
6.  The visiting professors have mayor contribution  in
curriculum design,  providing guidelines for the planning of
specialized facilities,    the analyses of needs and the
preparation of equipment lists.   Their activities result
also in the production of written material for lectures or
papers presented to seminars or other such papers.  A  list
has been given in a Final Rbport propared by MUCIA and
presented to the project.  This report also makos mention of
recoaendations left behind by the visiting professors  for
further developent of the departmonts they had served.



- 65 -
Table 9                    VISITING PROFESSORS
:                :     UI      :                AUGt  UIIAND  TOTAL
Faculty/          -      ---___-
:Dt:per  :  n- :per   mn-:  per-: lamm-: per- :per-
sonts p   wth: sone :month ?snsnIs: month: sans month
?1.Eineer- App?   4       98e    4    96    -  ?  -  ?  8:  192?
iug      Act?   8       84   19?  156:  5         29 : 32?  2698
:2.Science/ App:  5    120:  5   120?   3      72 : 13:  312:
:  tathemat Act    5  :  44    5    47   1    12: 11: 103:
:3.Econo-   App?   2       48    2?   48:  2          48    6   144?
MIellC   Act :                 3    36    4  :  42?   7    78:
4.Agricul- App p: -?-            -:  -       3  :  72:  3    72:
_ture       Act                               4      42    4?   42:
5.Aimal.  App       ?-?-         -    -      _
:Husbandry Act:   -  :  -      -:   -  :  4       52:   4    52:
:6.Pharmacy App         -      -       - _     -      _     _    _ -
:            Act?:-? -A            4:  20   4- -:4:  20:
7.Biology  App?   -  :  -  :  -?   -  :  -  t  -  :  -:  -
Act :  3      22    4:  16    1          12    8    50:
:8.Geography App :  -  :  -  :    a :   - :                    a
hAct    1      9   10    59    -  :  -  : 11,  68:
9.Adm/Libr. App:  -  :  -  :  -:   -:  -  :  -?-?
other    Act?   8?   26    1          4?   -      -t  9    30:
Total    App   11    264   11   264    8  : 192 : 30   720?
Act   25  : 185   46   338   19  : 189   90   712?
Note: App = Appraisal
Act = Actual



- 66 -
2.07. Specialist Services
1.  To strengthen the management capability of the DGHE, the
project will mae  a  contribution  through  the  technical
assistance component. A monitoring and evaluation system
(MKS), a    _mnagemnt information system  (HIS),   university
development  office  and  a management training program  for
university administrators will be established on an ad hoc
basis under the present DOHE structure. A plan and schedule of
implementation to reform the organizational structure of the
DGHH will be prepared according to a schedule satisfactory to
the Bank.
2.   The Appraisal Report anticipated  the use  of  local
consultants to take part in the provision of specialist
services   (a total of 29 man-years. see Table  10).   A
review Mission reported in an Aide Memoire of November
16, 1984 that difficulties were encountered in the recruitment
process. In a footnote to the Appraisal Report (page 2), it
was stated that Indonesia ranked highest in the use of
Technical Assistance, followed by Thailand, the Philippines
and Mslaysia in the proportions of 10-7-5 and 2. presumably
because of the inavailability of local expertise.   Out of a
total of 29 rn-years anticipated during appraisal. for beal
services only 3,2 man-years of services had been provided
(Table 10)



- 67 -
THE PROVISION OF SPECIALIST SERVICES
Tabel 10
:                                                              :
Number of man-years
: :~~~~~ ---- -:--.------
SERVICES  8LOCAL                               FOREIGN
Appr : Actual: Appr   Actual
1. Monitorina and Bwaluation  :     :
:   systam (MS)                    6.0:   1.4:    4.0: 
:.  :oiorn a: Ev:a n                                 :        :
2. Management information    :      :
srstem (MIS)                 11-02   1.85   8.00.
3. University development
:   office                    :  -   :  -        16.0     -    :
4. University manageaent
ttraining                                    *   4.02      0.12
75. Policy development        :       '
studies                       6.0   -   2   1.0    -
S6. Rationalization of
2   University Organization    2      2       :
2   & Staffing                : 6.0:              3.02    -
*                             *       a       a       a        a
27. Other Servicep                    2       2             1.8:
t T o t a 1                   2  29.0:   3.22  36.02        2.2
Grand from CIDA
o:asi/mawar



- 68 -
2.08. The Honitoring and Evaluation System (MRS)
1.  The MonJ1toinm  and    * vAJalxt1nm will  introduce a
system by which to evaluate the internal efficiency, quslity
and management of university education. The syste will
consist of a central unit within the DGHI and a local unit at
each of the three project universities. (Annex 11)
2.  The central unit will report to a steering committee of
three persons, representing the Director of Academic Affairs,
the Director of Research and the Project Director. The unit
itself will consist of two professionals and assisted by an
administrative staff. The costs for one man-year of foreign
speoialist services and 6 man-years of local specialist will
be provided from the loan.
3. Under the monitoring and evaluation system, this central
unit will :
- standardize the indicators of internal efficiency, quality
and management,
- in  collaboration with  a project university  unit, set
the annual targets  of achievement   and   develop   an
implementation strategy for each university
- establish the technique of monitoring and evaluation
- receive data on indicators and feed back on implemntation
measures from the three univereity umite



- 69 -
- arrange for data collection on standardized indicators
from other universities.
- analyze data and evaluate strategies and meanures
- advise the Director General of Higher Education on the
introduction of new policy measures.
4.   A  specilaist  from the university of Wisconsin  has
to  spent 4 weeks  in  Indonesia  in January  1985.    He
works primarily with Ul and the DGHI.
5.  In  1986, the University  of GadJah Hada under the
direction of professor Prayoto was involved in drafting
indicators for internal efficiency, staff work - load, the
utilization of facilities etc.  The three universities met
in  March  1986 and updated the  data.   Definitions  and
indicators are being standardized.   A  try-out of this
system hbs been attempted in 1987. Examples are presented in
(Annex 13). The Appraisal mission suggested targets to be
outlined in achieved Annex 12 .
6.  At the close of the project. MRS has produced three
reports  for the years 1985/86 - 1986/87 and  1987/88.   The
latest report does not only include the three project
universities,  but has  been extended to  include  more
universities  and one  IKIP.  A  num cry of findings for
1987/88 is included in Annex 18.



- 70 -
7.  Personal data are collected on an individual basis.  As
not all the staff in post respond positively to the inquiry,
the  data  are  incomplete.  If the  number of sarJana S3
holders has to be expressed in precentages against the total
number of staff in post, the figure will be lower than actual
if the returned questionnaires are not IOOX.
8. A sample of the data collected by MRS 1987/88 is given in
Annex  18.  Although specialist services  in the Tebhnical
Assistance component have not been utilized fully, it can be
said that the objectives of establishing a Monitoring and
evaluation  system have been  fully met,  thanks to  the
involvoemnt of professor Pratoso and his team at Gadjah Mada
University.



- 71 -
2.09. anagement Information System (HIS)
1.  The Apprisal Report recouended the establishmnt of a
HIS to strongthen the planning function of the DMU and of
each of the three project institutions.   The  system will
enable  the D(HE  and  the three universities  to collect
information and data systematically and continually on such
inputs and outputa as students, staff, costs, facilities,
materials,graduates  and graduate employment.
2.  Foreign  and  local specialist services of 8 man-years
were envisaged in support of this part of the technical
assistance component.
3.  The other aspects of HIS however come to full fruition.
At the request of a Review Mission in April 1983, each
proJect - University was asked to provide data on project -
indicators as set out in Annex 2 of the Appraisal Report (for
purposes of comparison reprinted in this completion report as
Annex 12).
4. A standard format for data collection has been
introduced.   The development of both  MRS end HIS  is
necessarily a process that involves many potential users and
therefore it requires close consultation amon interested
parties.



- 72 -
5.  For purposes of university infoziation system, a special
unit has been established within the DGHE.   This is  the
Uninet  (Inter University  Computer Network)   linki g  7
Universities (UI,ITB,UM,UTK.UMHAS,ITS and IPB) with the DUll.
Computer hardware iteum worth US S 145,000 have been provided
for Unlnet.  Pusilkom (Center for Computer Science) at the
UI has been installed for the management of UNINET and H3MIS
(Higher Education information System).
6. Local consulting services had been provided at a cost of
Rp.381.510.000.-   Especially  for the  development of the
University information system under Uninet and Hemis.



- 73 -
9.  The Pusilkom UI was contracted for the development of a
HfIS.  A final report was produced in 1988 which contains
chapters relating to: (1) a student information system
(2) a higher  education  information
system
(3) Indonesian   higher    education
statistical handbook
(4) Katerplan for the developomnt of
SIkASDAETI (The Higher Iducation
National Information System)
8.  This system will cover all hihber education institutions
umbering 44 at present (including the Open University).
All will be linked to the UNINET through the transfer of
data.  While such transfer most speedily will be through the
existing telephone or telex system. this proved to be
excessively expensive, unless the postal services provides
lower tariffs for the time being the report recommends the
use  of computer discettes instead.   A trial run  of the
system has been attempted in 1987 on 7 universities resulting
in  some modification to the original designs.   With  these
improv ents, the Pusilkom is expected to become the key in
solving problem  encountered by the DE.



- 74 -
2.10. University Development Office
1.  The Appraisal Report recomnended the establishxmnt of a
University  Development Office within the D(GH.   For this
purpose, 16 rn-years of foreign specialist services was
envisaged. The November 16. 1984 Review Mission reported that
essentially no progrees has been made on the establishment of
this office and on other proposed organizational changee.
2. , Two people for this office were expected to be in the
USA for short term training, under the MUCIA contract.
There were however  recruitment problem   because  of the
scarcity  of suitable  candidates.   and this part of the
program had been canceled.
c:yori/23



- 75 -
211.Hbanagement Training for University Administrators
1.  This Program  aims  at the preparation of managers for
university administration. A program will be developed for
top university managers,middle-level administrators and key-
staff  at  the  DGHI.  To develop  and  administer  the
program,DGHE will establish a osparate unit headed by a
director,and seconded by two administrative staff.  Training
will be given by 20 instructors drawn from universities and
the DGHK.
2.  These  instructors will receive a 6 month preparation
overseas in the skills and procedures of administrative and
academic management.  Upon return,they will develop the
training   program. and  teaching   materials,and  initiate
training with the support of a 4 man-years foreign specialst
services.
3.  These  courses will be short,lasting two to three weks
so   that   altogether   6  courses   will  be   conducted
annually.During the implementation of the project. now 25X
of the existing rectors, deans end other senior university
staff and about 130 of key DEIE staff will obtain# training.
4.  The British Counil in Jakarta had baen contracted  for
the  training  of  instructors  in  the UK.   In  1983,as
scheduled,15 university staff had completed thnir training of
6 months in Britain and were back in Jakarta.
c:ung/ll



- 76 -
In March 1983.a post-training review was held together with
the  preparation   of an  in-country  training  program  for
university administrators. It was scheduled for a try-out
in Hay 1983.The program itself will start in July 1983.
5.   It was decided to train 20 more instructors in  Indonesia
and the program will be decentralized among the three project
universities. The costs for each university will be covered
from the DIP.
6. Up to November 1987, some 630 had participated in the
program coming from all 43 universities in Indonesia,an 87,6%
achievement. At the closing month of the project, these
figures have  risen to rise to  717   persons  and  90    X
respectively.



- 77 -
2.12. Policy Developoent Studies
1. Policy Development Studies will be undertaken to improve
student flow and output over the short toe. Chaness in
prowotion and graduation policies relating to course and thesis
requiremnets will be intruduced in engineering,science,
economics and agriculture at the three project-institutions.
2. Over the medium term, the proJect w1.:*t1 seek to introduce
other policies to increase output as well as quality. The
policies will provide targets to be adopted by the four fields
at the three universities in the following main areas :
-staff                izatinn _  the minimum teacher work-load for
teaching, research and consultancy, ratio of management
to academic staff, and ratio of staff to students.
- uiliu4Atinn .f Dh.nical faities ; space utilization,
time tabling and allocation of teaching accoLodation
- xrn.an. and g~.ar ticn ::L student evaluation  schemes,
repetition and years needed to cowplete a degree
program
- *na it, ofX Lndu~an   _   staff   qualification   and
performance, and progress of curriculum development.
To  improve  student  flow, a report was  completed  in  1982
outlining  some recomendations for  the  study, on  student
admision. This study started in August 1983 and completed in
1984.



- 78 -
As a result of its recommendations, student admission was
based on Sipenmaru. a state controlled examination system
for all State universities. This examination system was in
later years supported by PHDK in which school principals can
reco _nd students who are then not required to take part in
Sipenmaru.  Recomaendetions   are  based   on  intellectual
performance and very limited.
3.  The teacher work-load policy was based on DGHK directive
48/1983 and is being implemented. The administrative work-load
directive is included in the DGHE long-term plan. However, due
to a general staff shortage,progress has been slower than on
the teaching work-load policy.
4.  The  Student/teacher ratio has been questioned as to  its
validity for meeting the efficiency objectives of higher
education,the argument being that teaching contact hours is a
more  reliable measure.  Full tims teaching equivalents, that
is hours of instruction times class size by field should be
considered as additional efficiency measures.
5.   The facilities utilization and student evaluation policy
targets are met. About lOX of students are now receiving
som form of financial aid. All other efficiency and quality
targets have either been met or are being implemented with
predicted  accomplishment  by July 1985.  See Annex  12 for
project targets.



- 79 -
6.  A  credit sYstem has been introduced which  reprosent  a
major   departure   from   revi     Practice   in  Indonesian
universities.
c: ung/p15



- 80 -
2.13. Campus Kasterplan
1.  Part A of the loan agreement calls for a quantitative
im6provem_nt of the three project univosities by increasing
the number of students. and by the provision of additional
teaching space , especially in the four selected fields of
engineering,science, economic  and agriculture.  Not  all
proJect universities have these four faculties  however.hese
four faculties however. Each of the proJect will involve
the following faculties in projcet activities :
- University of Indonesia : engineering,science and economics
- University  of GaJah Mada    engineering,science,   and
econnmics
- University of Andalas : science, economics and agriculture
2.  At  the time of negotiating the loan, the University of
Indonesia was already involved in a program aimed at
relocating the original campus to a new site some 20
kilometers from Jakarta.
3.   In  1984, all three universities had completed  an
academic masterplan which will be the basis for preparing the
capus masterplan.
C:yOnr/p1



- 81 -
4CMh=  IMnUMaMiUZ of Indanaaia
1.  The university has purchased some 300 ha land  in the
Depok arep and engaged P.T.Nncona Engineering in the
preparation of a campus masterplan. This was completed in
1981 and presented  to a Bnk  mission  for review.    The
masterplan was baeed on enrollment projections up to 198B.
Ths floor space by faculty is presented in Annex 14.    This
annex   also  contains   supporting   facilities  such  as
watersupply.  communmication  system,  landscaping,   parking
space, roads. *port fields. power supply etc.
2.  A review mission visited the mite in April 1983 at which
time it took one hour to reach the site because of heavy
traffic.   This is now been much improved by  established
road connections to the Depok area through a double lane to
the Pasar Hinggu area and another road to Pasar Robo (on the
road to Bogor).
3. The mission comented that in general the lay out of
buildings showed enough flexibility for later expansions.
It was concernod hwever on the absence of staff and student
houaing  in  the masterplan.  To  this  the PIU  responded
positively  and   considerations will be given  to  the
establinhmnt of a number of hostels in the vicinity of the
cam5U.



- 82 -
4.  The masterplan wa fully approved by the University  in
1983.  A model was prepared by PT.Rncona. The only  concern
was  the  division  of the  site  between   two   different
jurisdictions, those of Jakarta and the province of West
Java, which may have different zoning regulations.   It wam
strongly recominended that the site be re-zoned to fall into
one  jurisdiction,  preferably  that  of Jakarta which   is
aministratively closer to the University. At present the UI
is  subject   only  to the zoning authoritv  of the Jakarta
mnicipality.
6.   In  1984 the services of PT.Encona were  terminated  and
the Lembaga Teknologi, an in - house university organization,
took over.  The lembaga Teknologi introduced radical changes
in the original plan, especialy with the introduction of
traditional concepts for roof designs.   the masterplan  was
finalized in October 1984.
6.  The  master plan prepared by Lembaga Teknologi  Showed
beside excenllent ideas ome week points.   A review mission
in   November  1984  recozmended  a  design  coordination   -
manageme nt - construction administration concept, all in one
package, rather the piecemeal tratment envimsaed by the
Lembhaa.  The  imison wm  of the opinion that this  strategy
was  too rilsky for a project of such size.   This  suggestion
was acceptable to the Lembaga Teknologi incorporated in its
disme.



- 83 -
B. Tha Univereitz af badLah Mada
1.  An  in  - house group of experts started  a preliminary
study for the masterplan as early as 1982 an educational
worksheet had been prepared by each faculty by the teaching
staff. Additional land of 10 ha (100.000) has been acquired
close to the existing campus.
2.    For  finalizing the masterplan and the preparation  of
detailed  proposals,  the university intended to   appoint  a
local consulting firm with a reputable foreign counterpart.
Out  of seven candidates, PRW. (Purnomo Ruadi Warman)  with
ito counterpart from the Netherlands was chosen.
3.    In March 1984. preliminary designs for buildings were
completed  and  approved by  the  university.  After being
approved. by the university, these preliminary designs were
sent  to the Bank.   A mission comented that more  efforts
should be given to standardise classrooms and laboratories,
more emphasis should be given to resolve functional espects
of  specialized  rooms through more detailed  rooms layouts.
The   mission  therefore  requested  :
(a) a schedule of accomodations and functional requirements,
(b) preliminary designs and room layouts of specializes
areas,
(c) outline specifications of external materials,
(d) cost estimates
(e) implementation schedule



- 84 -
C. mm UnhiX=ULX at ndalAR
1.  The university bad acquired 500 ha  land  including  a
forest of  150 ha.  The land was somewhat higher than  the
city  of Padang.  Its undulating nature however will pose
problems to designers with regard to building placement and
vehicular roasd without abrupt level changes and steep
clim.
2.  The  local firm  Desigras was contracted  for  the
preparation of a masterplan.  Central facilities wil be
provided surrounded by various faculties.   Student and staff
housing will be provided.  A mission visiting the university
in April 1983 found the plans satisfactory as abroad basis
for  future developments.   There were however  detailed
considerations which should be scrutinized with the
assistance of experts with wide experience in the field.
3. The university agreed to seek the assistance from
internationally recognized consulting firm which will work in
close  collaboration with Desi8rae.   This foreign company
will assist Desioras in preparing a masterplan and a time
schedule  for construction works.  From a dhortlist of four
competitors,   Robert Matthew (MiM) of the United  Kingdom
was selected.
c:yWnh/p5



- 85 -
2.14. TLnd Acquisition
1.  All  three proJect  institutions have  fulfilled  the
requireMnt of Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreemn t.        Long
before the agreement was signed in 1981, the University of
Indonesia was already involved in activitieg to purohage land
in the Depok area.   Because of the size of  land  required,
these activities took a long time for its completion, because
oany people have to freed from their land.  Ultimately, the
University was able to puschase 312 ha land ame 20
kilometers away from the original site in Salemba.
2.   Initially,  this will  pose  problems  of housing  for
students and  staff.   The normal Practice in Indonesia  is
that students will find rented rooms in the neighbourhood,
while staff area generally in the possession of private cars.
This solution smem to work well, as at present, there are no
housing problems, either for students or staff.
3.   Land  acquisition for the University of Gadjah mada  and
Andalas is mo  easier.  Although Yogya is densely populated.
land  is not so expensive like that in Jakarta.    Padang  is
less populated than Yogya or Jakarta, except for the fact
that flat land is very limited nmar Padang.   The university
in Padang obtained a siable land of some  00 ha including a
forest of 150 ha, which many steep slopes.
c:ung/pl



- 86 -
12.15. Profeesional services
l.  For llnthe  iribz of IndazTia, PT.Incona   ngineering.
a dometic company, was involved in preparing the campus
imasteplan right from the beginnin  in 1981.  This plan was
based on the requirments of Govenment Decree No.5 (1980) on
Univeridity organization, and included student projections up
to 1988.   It was shown to a BSauk mission in August 1982 for
review after being approved by the university.
2.  In substance, the mission noted that the masterplan  was
following the academic masterplan prepared by the university
and showed enough flexibility for the development of the
various faculties and comon buildings of the campus.
3.  At a later stage, the services of Encona were replaced
by an in-house Lambaga Teknologi (1984). Radical changes in
the original plans were introduced by the new designer,
especially with  regard the architectural aspects.   the
services of Incoa however were retained as construction
management consultants. Out of the procud of the loan, same
Up.922 million ban been dishirsed for Professional Service at
UI
4.  ThM   Iverjajtz of gadjnh Mada  obtained the services of
a local campany (PM) to continue work on the campus
Masterplan which had been initially prepared by an in-house
tela,   assisted  by  a Dutch consulting  fim  and after
selection from eight cowpetitive bidders.



- 87 -
The contract with PRW and its foreign  counterpart or was
igned  in October 1,1984.  A sensible tioe  Vchedule was
produced which in hoped to assist/in overcoming the problem
sencountered by UT end Andalas in budgeting civil works
ectivities.   By the end of March 1985 a final draft was
submitted which was duely approved by the Rector.  The total
cost for Professional Services amonths to  some Rp.2.285
million.
5.  Th- Mm     anratiz ja AdAlsA a had contracted  PT.Desigras
and its foreign counterpart Robert Matthew from the United
Kingdom for the oraparation of a campus masterplan for the
new site.   Professional services are especially provided in
the  field of architect planner, quantity  aurveyor  and
services engi.aeer, to a total aounth of Rp.2.317 million.
c:wng/p



- 88 -
2.16. Civil Works
UnivogrmitZ    Ind2nmA
1.   The campus masterplan was presented to the World Bank in
November  1984.    The World Bank had some  comments on  the
traditional  concepts emphasized in the plan.   It  certainly
will create higher building costs compared to standard
methods which have been specially developed for reasons of
economy and utility.   But when it comes to a project of this
nature and size, considerationB other than economy and
technology (cultural for instance), may have higher priority
ratings.
2.    The  total  building plan is shown in  Annex  14.   The
faculties are designed as totally self-sufficient structures
with their own laboratory and lecture rooms.   No attempt  iF
being made to centralize commonly used rooms like lecture
halls  and other teaching areas.   The design team  responded
by saying that utilization ratios are high without giving
data in support of the claim.
3.   Construction is scheduled to be in phases (as many as  5
phases) with intervals of 6 to 9 months for each faculty.
This will cause an extended construction time for over 7
years.   The need for this extended construction time  arise.
from ',he desire of feculties for a iradual relocation and for
the creation of smaller more manageable contracts.



- 89 -
4.  Adequate funds are provided from the government  budget,
so that only professional services and design fees are
claimed  from  the  loan.   out  two  faculties,  that of
Engineering and Science are in need of loan funds for
equipment about US$ 3,5 million as ro provision has been made
in the DIPe.   Funds remaining under the civil works category
are then earmarked for UGH and URAMD site development and
building  construction.    A reallocation of funds has been
made to cover the additional cost of equipment with Bank
approval.
S.  The auditorium needs special acoustic properties.    The
PIU ha. sent a request to the Bank for approval of the
services of an acoustic consultant from the United Kingdom
The solution is found by the Lembaga Teknologi by sending one
of its members to the U.K.
6.  unievaltz  nl CQadf h bwdA
Preliminary designs for buildings have been completed in
Karch 1986 and accepted by the university. It was explained
to the design consultants by a visiting review mission that
the  Bank needs to review and coinnt on the designs   before
the consultants proceed with more detailed drawings.   The
plan with arduced scope includes:



- 90 -
- site development   estimated cost  Rp. 1.500 million
- faculty of Economics               Rp. 3.000 million
- common facilities                  Rp. 1.940 million
Total          Rp. 6.440 million
7.   As  the faculty of Economics has priority for  financing
under the loan. a Bank mission visiting the site in July 1986
concentrated its review for this faculty.   It found that the
desiRns  required more work, paarticularly  the   classroom
blocks.     The  design  should  be  simplified  to  improve
flexibility for new arrangements or expansion in future.
8.  The mission proposed a more  straightforward  approach,
where the classrooms are contiguous and therefore more
amenable  to  future  changes by  relocating    intermediate
walls.    Also  there  are no  storage  provisions  near  the
lecture rooms.  The PIU has agreed to request the consultans
to revise the designs.
9.   The  mission  proposed to the PIU to contact MUCIA  for
obtaininag the services of a specialist in making detailed
room   layouts  for  specialized  rooms   (laboratories   and
workos).-
At the close of the project, all works have been
completed and include the following buildings



- 91 -
Comnon facilities (Administration) :
Faculty of Biology             1.694 m2
Faculty of Geography           1.683 .2
Faculty of Science/Math        1.654 .2
Faculty of Pharmacy            1.714 .2
- Laboratories for Science/Math     3.598 .2
- Faculty of Rconozics             11.847 .2
- Administration
Faculty of Engineering            2.682 .2
10. TUA fli Q   Aitz ala *nIA
Preliminary designs were prepared for a rectorate, an
auditorium, comuon lecture rooms and laboratories.   A review
mission visiting the site in March 1986 gave the following
comments :
- rectory building : the general design approach is a little
abitious with soame trendy design features, but technically
acceptable. The consultants are advised to simplify the
design during the working drawing stage, and ensure that
the improved dsoign is within cost estimates and budget
allocation
- classroom bloks : double corridors should be eliminated and
the  seating arrangentI improved to ensure that the mayor
part of the seating is closer to the lecturer.
- laboratories,orgainization.    orientation    and      other
functional    aspects of       he  laboratories were   not
adequately resolved.



- 92 -
11. The mission suggested a north-south orientation if it can
be worked out, and linking the four buildings so that the
number  of  stairs  can be  reduced.    The  ventilation  and
natural lighting could also be improved.
12. The consultant was advised to redesign these buildings
and he had agreed to prepare and submit revised proposals for
the  laboratories as soon as possible.   Apart  from   minor,
not irreconcilable differences in design, all other aspects
of the work such as quality of documents produced, cost
control, management and scheduling of work by both firms have
been satisfactory.
13.  As was the case with UGM, Unand had to reduce works due to
financial  restrictions  in  the DTIp.    Works  rozain4ng  for
1986/87 and 1987/88 are listed below
- site development phase I        Rp.2.745 million
- site development phase II       Rp.  980 million
- administration building         Rp.2.390 million (7880 m2)
- classroom block III             Rp.  610 million (3050 m2)
- classroom block IV              Rp.  540 million (4592 m2)
- water supply                    Rp.  580 million
- power supply                    Rp.  550 million ( 6 mua)
14. Agreement was reached to secure the services of Mr.Kenneth
Dean (under the RMJM contract) to review all preliminary
designs and building requirements.   The works were completed
on time.



- 93 -
2.17. The Management of Construction Works
1.   MhM Unvnzmi= 2  IndTneda
The University of Indonesia had contracted Lembaga
Toknologi (LEMTEK) to manage campus development activities,
particularey technical aspects of the supervision, planning,
scheduling and monitoring of construction work activities.
The terms of reference also include the preparation of
architectural briefs, the grouping of works in suitable
packages,   construction   phasing,   quality   control   and
monitoring of work performance.
2.   By  issuing monthly reports, the progress and  performance
of work can be monitored and the necessary steps to redress
weak points can be done on time.
3.   Tha Univsrgifv rad.Alh t&
Several companies had been contracted  like  PT.Perencana
DiJaja, CV Pharta, DV Proposi, PT.PRW Architect and PT.Desigras.
To manage the contraction of works.
4.   Th3  Uni*yarzty 2  Anei an
The University had appointed PT.Cakra Manggilingan for the
management  of construction works since March 1986.   The  firm
took part in discussions resulting from the visit of a Review
Mission to the site in resolving problems arising during
construction.



- 94 -
2.18. 3h3 2jirethana al BQnka and J7girnAJL.
1.   Each project university was invited to prepare booklists
in   fields   that will  obtain  support   from   the   loan
(engineering, science, mathematics, economics, agriculture,
animal  husbandry  and  other related  fields).      The  DOHE
combine these separate lists in such a way to correspond to
one the publisher.   Generally publishers have  a book agency
in Indonesia.
2.   The  first  phase  of book  procurement  comprised  3825
titles and some 18,000 copies at a cost of US$ 1,2 million
was succesfully completed in October 1985 after the contracts
were awarded to three book agencies in November 1984.
Contracts for inland handling were signed in April 1985.
3.    Draft booklists of 10,700 titles and 24,000 copies  for
the second phase were completed in June at a cost of US$ 1,5
million.   But  civil works for UGM and Unand were  hort   of
funds  caused  by cost-overrun.   The second  phase  of book
procurement had to be reduced to some US$ 600.000 to help
cover the additonal costs for UGM and Unand.
4. A three year contract covering 1985, 1986 and 1982 had
been signed with F.W.Faxon Co. (United States) in December
1985 for the delivery of Journals at the total cost US*
297,939.56.



- 95 -
2.19. Book Translation
1.  The project followed closely the stipulation in the loan
asreement to transleate 120 titles, selected from the fields
of   engineering  science  and mathematics,  economics   and
agriculture.    The translation had been constracted to  five
University process, namely : UI Press, ITb Press, UGH Press,
UNAIR Press and IKIP Semerang Press.
2.   Copyright permits from the publishers had been  obtained
and copies sent to the Bank for the payment of royalities.
Up to September 1988, 123 titles (over IOOX) had been
translated and 56 titles had been printed at the presses
owned  by universities (UI,UGM,ITB,UNAIR). 3.    The  proJect
will purchase a maximum of 20% of the copies for university
libraries, but not exceeding 600 copies per title.



- 96 -
2.20. The Training of Editors
1.   The loan  agreement makes provisions to cover the  costs
of  4  man-years of overseas training for editors.    In  its
realization, 7 staff had been sent to the United Kingdom
sponsored  by  the  British  Council for  a  training  of   3
months.     The  trainees returned to Indonesia  in  February
1983 as scheduled.
2.    The original intention was that  the trainees will  be
assigned to the university presses.   Instead they were given
training assignments to prepare 130 trainees ( 5 each from 26
universities)  as editors.   The proJect obtained the  Bank's
agreement   for  financing  this  program  under  the   loan,
estimated  at   Rp.130 million.      As th,s  is  an  on-going
program, it is reported in November 1987, that 146 editors
have been traincd and other 100 candidates are undergoing
training.



- 97 -
2.21. The Training of librarieans
1.    The Loan A8reement makes provision of 6 man-years  for
the overseas tratning in library science and administration.
Under the fellowshipa program administered by MUCIA, three
librarians, one from each university, had been sent to the'
Unitad States on different time schedules.   This was  caused
by the difficulty of recruiting a suitable candidate.
2.    One trainee from UGM returned in March 1986,  one  from
Unand started his studies in July 1986 &nd the trainee from
UI started in the fall of 1986, and both will return on the
end of the academic year 1988/89.



- 98 -
2.22. The Purchase of Equipment
Prining 
1.   Printing equipment for ITB about US$ 268,000 and for UGM
about US$ 284,000 were succesfully procured, although after
much   difficulties  causing a long delay.   This  delay  war
caused by the fact that the equipment to be procured under
the  loan were  for  the most  part   additons  to  existing
machines.    Consequently the computerized composing units on
the list for procurement had to fit three similar machines
from the same manufactuirer.
2.   The proJect had to mention a brandname which is  against
the general rules for procurement.   An attempt had been made
to follow these rules with the result that no responsive bids
were  received and had to be regarded as a fa'llure.    After
this  faillure, the Bank agreed to direct purchase  from  the
sole agent.
3.    The equipment were received in November 1987 and  duely
installed.   The prices include installation and the training
of personnel (exclusive local transport).



- 99 _
4. I           uaamsn
Engineering and Science departments faculties will br
equiped with laboratory equipment. High priority will be
given to the University of Indonesia.   The estimated   costs
of US$ 3,5 million have been found by the rallocation of
funds from other categories. (see table 12) Eight contracts
had been signed with Indonesian companies for the delivery of
equipment  totaling USS 3,950,678.   At the clossing  of  the
proJect more than 90% of the equipment have been delivered.
The balance of 10% have not delivered due to invalidity of
bids.
K.   egmp1avA-a
Particular mentioned is being made for computers as
these equipment are especially intended for use by the DGHE
in  its  Management Information System.    The  project  will
finance  the  establishment  of a UNINET  system  with   will
link    to  the  DGHE   selected   universities   throughtout
Indonesia.   The purchase of computer hardware to the  amount
of  USS 138,000 has been approved by the World Bank.       This
UNINET system will be managed under contract by PUSILKOM (Ut
Computer Center).
6.   Another   US$  206,000  for  additional   equipmepnt   and
associated costs will be required however to succesfully
implement the system.



- 100 -
7.   For  its own use, the  University  of  Indonesia will
develop   a   separate   unit   to   support   administrative
performance.    For  this purpose some USS 206,000  has been
budgeted.   Ultimately, a total of US 723.000.- has been
spent on computer hard and software for the Ul.
c:yoko/pretty



- 101 -
2.23. World Ban Review Miasions
1.  The  following  table 11  rumarizes visits frou  Review
Missions to the project.
Table 13.     VISITS BY RXVIEW MISSIONS TO THR PE)DJBC7
:           |                 ~~~~~~~~~tea_SAbrs
3          5        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
dt               'du-        E       a Nov 1  2    o I   I  a
30~~~~ Juns - 15 Ju  1o8  2  2
:  1 - - 25 Ju  -98    2-         :-:--:- 
06~~~~~~~~ No  1{8      5 :  : 
01 - 21 Nov 1987     3       I     1     1        :1 
07-2  Mar 1988 :3A ,2.-6        
:      die  ab y Rev iew Msin  to the  o                   were
30 Jun -5 15 Ju  196:22:-                                  a    
:    03eks -* 31 Oc  a9B  4~                                 a        
drpIai  i5s             5ltn  noap  elnso            VVLUIn
:    11 - 2Jn18  :2             :1:-:   - : -  :O-
s:    01 - 21ReNovi 98i              a 3    '          a    aa1--
:oatiosi 07a -4e9:3: 
:   98~~          4    2    :         :~  ,  ,      a :   5
*~   ~   ~  .ia~     .A              . 'C -.     .   -
2.3  .b-i9M.nce   986: 3y    :eie Misso   to  ihe -rJc : 
ii-5J mi87 26                        1 -t -a-



- 102 -
3. Much of the findinae of Review Missions have been
incorporated into this Completion Report.



- 103 -
2.24 The Fulfilmnt of Covenants
Special covenants in the Loan At that have to  be
fulfilled by the project are checked below :



- 1~' --
Section 3.02
The   Borrower  shall  ewploy   conultants   whose
qualifications,  experience  and  terms of  conditons  of
employment 1hall be satisfactory to the Bank.
The project through the three local project-institutions
had signed contracts with building design conultants, of
damatic and foreign origin, of which the contracts were
submitted to the Bank.  The project had alao contracted
foreign  specialists  through  WUCIA  to  assist  in
educational and managerial activities as part of the
Technical Assistance Program.
Section 3.05
(a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction and operation of
the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights  in
respect of land are available and satisfactory for
purposes related to the Project.
All three universities have acquired land for
purpoe  of the ProJect and documents of ownership
bave been translated for Bank review.



- 105 -
(b) Without limitation subsection (a) above, the Borrower
shall acquire the land and rights in respect of land for
the Universities of GaJah Mada and Andalas in accordance
with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
The new site for the University of Andalas and the
aaditional land for the University of Gajah Mada
have been acquired and documentary evidence has
been sent to the Bank.
Section 3.006
The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank. by
June 30, 1982, at the Project Universities in the
ProJect Fields. introduce, or cause to be introduced.
(a) a credit system of course requirements and
(b) in addition to the thesis option, an alternative
for the completion of the Sariana Dearee.
A credit system has been introduced and is
operating at all universites and faculties.
Section 3.07
The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank,
develop policies to improve the internal efficiency of
the Project Universities in the Project fields, shall
implement such policies in accordance with a tim
schedule satisfactory to the Bank; and shall submit an
annual report to the Bank on the progress of policy
implementation.



- 106 -
The  target  date  for  achievement of  internal
efficiency is July 1985. Preparations had been
made to begin studies on student admission in the
begimning of 1983, while the studies on staff
incentives were scheduled to start in July 1983. No
formal  annual reports on progress of  policy
implementation had been submitted to the Bank.
Section 3.08
Prior to reproducing or causing the reproduction of
any textbook or any part thereof, under the Project, the
Borrower shall obtain the consent of the author and the
publisher of any such textbook, or any part thereof, to
the proposed reproduction.
A writ-ten permit from publishers and writers had
been  requested  and  obtained  prior  to  the
translation of books and copies submitted to the
Bank.
Section 4.02
(a) The  Borrower  shall maintain or cause  to  be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting
practices   the    operations,   resources    and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
dep rtments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.



- 107 -
The   Project   is  accountable  to  variaos
Government institutionsin charge of monetary
and material inspection such an: the Inspector
Genoral    at the Ministry of Education, the
Hinistry   of Finance  and  the   BPK  (Badan
Pemsrilsa Kowangan) For this the Project has to
maintain accurate records of resources and
expenditures supported by legal documents.
(b) The Borrower shall
(i) have the accounts established for the purpose of the
ProJect for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each
such year (A) certified copies of said accounts for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(iii) furnish   to   the  Bank  such   other   information
concerning the accounts and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from tim. to time reasonably request.
The DGHE has submitted to the Bank the
certified copies of Projects accounts audited
by independent auditors.
c:tgWp22



- 108 -
PROJKcT COST AND FINANCING
3.01. Appraisal Rstimates
1.    When the Appraisal Mission was in Indonesia  in  1979,
coots for the project were estimated at a total of US$
65,352,000    comprising US$ 20,235,000 form the Government
of Indonesia and US$ 45,096.000 from the BanR. Much of the
Indonesian contribution will be used for the expansion of
physical facilities (84X).
2.   The total cost includes contingencies and amount to 1OX
for physical increases and 25X for price escalations.  These
are shown in the following figures : (US$).
Government      World Bank    Total
base cost          14,752,000      32,795,000   47,547,000
physical increase   1,468,000        3,380,000    4,748,000
price escalation    4,038,000        9,021,000   13,057,000
Total              20,256,000       45,196,000    65,352,000
3.02. Actual Costs.
1.   The actual costs covered from the proceeds of the loan.
compared to the Loan Agreement can be asen from the following
tables  12 and 13.  These tables have been prepared from
existing contracts and may differ slightly from total figures
for actual disburaents.   (Rates of the Rupiah aaingst the
dollar,. which change from year to year will be the biggest
cause of this difference).



- 109 -
Table 12. ACTUAL COSTS COMPARED TO THB EhN AGRLOM(US$000)
Categories          Loan Agreement   Actual        disbursent
Civil Works             3,500         8.165         (up to 2332)
Uquip.ent               3,800         7,647         (up to 201X)
Fellowship & Training   11,300       15.961         (up to 141X)
Ezpert services         9,100         6,402         (down to 70X)
Proffesional services   5.300         4,688         (down to 88X)
gement                 -             241
Contingencies           12,000
Total                   45,000        43,104.       (down to 92X)
2.   It can be  seen that the price  escalation  in three
categories (Civil Works, Equipment and Fellowship) can be
covered from the contingencies and sOmm saving in Expert and
Professional Services.
3. The total cost for campus development (civil works) has
been ezceded only by 7%  .   Cost escalation occuring in UGW
and UNAND have been eompensated by cost-underrun at Ul
because a US$ 9,000 allocation has been canceled in favour of
building construation at UW.  The rise of 270X  in the
dollar    onot has been caused by a change  in policies.
Where formerly, the Bank will pay only 20X of civil works,
due to financial difficulties encountered by the Govertuant,
it mm agreed that since June 1986. this figure will be
raised to 80X.



-110-
4.  A big  change has been  introduced  in  the category
Bquipmnt.  Originally, this was limited to the purchase of
books for university libraries.  A am  of US$ 3,600,000 was
allocated for imported books, and mother US$ 900,000 for
local purchas.   As imploented, the imported, books cost
USS 1,864,000 and the local books US$ 230,000.           The
biggest  change come. from  the purchase of  laboratory
equiyp.nt for science and engineering faculties at UI,
originally not foreseen during appraisal.  The cost of US S
3,951.000 for these laboratory equipment brings the total
cost under the category equipmnt to US $ 7,347,000 as shown
in table 12.
5. The cost for fellowship and training has also increased
because of the increase in the number of fellows and man-
months. Whereas formerly it was envisaged to send only 177
fellows abroad for a 460 man-years of training, it turns out
that these figures become 394 and 730, an increase  of  221
and 159 X respectively. As can be seen from Table 7 and 8, not
only the three project institutions benefit from the loan,
but other institutions like ITB, IPB, Unpad, Unhas.USU and UT
as well.   The three proJect institutions send only  153
fellows for their doctoral training, 155 for their master-
training, for  425  and  217   man-yeare respectively.



- ill -
6.   The use of experts or specialist services has been
reduced from an original US$ 9,100,000 to an actual US*
6.820,000.    This reduction can be attributed to  the
cancellation of specialist services at the DMll level.
Originally the Appraisal Hission foreamw the use of experts
for different fields as follows:
- monitoring and evaluation US$    456,000
- mangemrent information           900,000
- University development office   1,536,000
- mAnaagemt training               564,000
- organization and staffing        456.000
Total        3,912,000
7.  This part of the loan-allocation has been reserved for
other uses.
S.  A new item has been introduced  in the e8penditures.
This refers to the item *nsueent.   This item  includes
expensos for supervision, evaluation,  project  auditing.
project monitoring etc.  The amount is very minimal however.
As can be een from Table 12, the total amount of the dollar
component so far is US$ 43,104,000 leaving a balance of US*
1,896 unme_d money.



- 112 -
9.  The total cost of the project an far as contracted
aunts are ooncerned, is far below the total ertimated cost,
i.e US* 65,352,000 againat US* 50.209,000 causing a difference
U(S*.5,143,000.  One of the factors that contribute to  thie
difference in the change in the precentage of cost for civil
works to  be covered from the loan.       (Figures are  not
exact, depending on the conversion rate of the Rupiah asainst
the US dollar, which changes from year to year).



- 113-
Relative Cost by Project sub - component ( us $ 000
fable 13         (for Comparative Purposes only 
a   I         VI          I                  ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~                 ~~~~I mumi  1.  lUlL 
I    catmoriu       I                                                                                 u
aa.~wummvm.wt.I Bol           a I OAzo      a            iT  I   ta   a       aTM k 0    a    ITUA   I
I 1. ILls hvalum   :1 I41I  370   1.9511  2071  9261 1.0331 .3.599  1.99    4.551  4,2371  3.1491 7,4361
1 2. Comtsntilas    I-  I     I  -   1  7461 2.9951 3.1311  M42  2.966   3,1101  1,4U61 5.M53   7,4411
U 3. srvkuI      1-Ii--11-23                                    11to.1941   ZVI11ml1.1941
I                                                                                                         I
I Ttai       kctua I 1.4611  370I 1.1511  951 3.8111 4.M61 3.01 5.9761  9.=56  6i.0141 10.0571 16.0711:
I         AWfoo   I 550 3. 5001 MM    .0001  -  I  -  I   1 4.5001 SI0M0   1.5001 1o.0001 6,500  16.MI0
I 1. Bob  (wi       1-1o-                    -     -1vg-                       -        1191 1.7461 1.J641
1 2. Jowuls                       I       -            -1-        -                I-1I91 26
14. Dook-transa i    i-              I               -     -:          -         411          65 1  4651
1 6. Printingnago               611     611I - '-!-                   S 1           ; 1          ia     681
17. Comte.tr            -  i   M:    MI; -                 -      -      - -                    7-,      '
1L i.oumaetl   -        m.151 .95iI     -        : -         -  1-                -'  a1    ?Z
I Total      Actual I      .1 4.742.1 4.742!         MI96    IM1 -                      1161 7. S - 7 : 7.7951
I            Agaur   I-         ~    -         ~ -           : -         ~             .3111L
I .Fellovshin          -1      -      -        :    -      -      -!     -      -1    4761 143651 14.4:
I .Editors a        1      1  1   I     1    -      -      -1 -I- 1-1- 1                        2001   200:
ITota        kctual     -:     -I        I             1-       -               -       4761 145114632'M
13I   EILIS         1      1      1       1      1     1      1                          Mt  1461IMN
I. SPECYIAS         I      I              I     i         I                 I       I 
I  ..Ybtstl  uauf.   I-     - 1-             -I                        -           I- ':50 6.5001
I 2  COMMul(du)   I - I Ml   321  -                    I      I1-1-I-1I                         320    320
ITota       ktuaIl-  I 01    3201  -  I-1I1                  I -   I1 I1-I6 Im           1   6      6 .8201
1         hAor   I -  I-   I-             I  -I    -i            -1-1           1   3141 9.34619.6601
I L    M39L    I      I      I       I                                                        I   .    II  
I      YICU3        1  - 1   5471   5471  -  I IJ1511,801   -  1 2,4241  2.4241             I 14.36614.666
I Teta       ktuulI  - 1   5471   W47    -  I JIM1951j1   -  1 2.4241 2.4241                1 14.8661 4.9661
I    .   bur19 I   761,  ml          11.3     1     W     9-1S"t-I t -  I IJ        31419I.S4619.&6"1
I F.UIEI            I  -                         I-1VI-VI111-221    221-  1                      491    491
I 
I low al      k      aI  - I -I           I- I   VI   VI- I   nl    221 -I.491    4"I
I
ITOTAL.61113     1         I      I                    1      1      1 I                    I 
*         4c~~~k=   1 1.411; .1UI7  .410f   M!3 M.M9  6.521      O .9i L322  11.90   6.M06  43.0~! 50.2331
floor    ,.7  4       i 0. M"'   P'"    M"     )i! 4.ZO@   . l  .300  1 .oo::.:n 140.0.121 w::.@z@
CFigures are obtained by Converting Rupiahs into US Dollars and are -
meant only to obtain cost comparison ofProject Sub - Components.
Pigures dOon't match actual Reinbursements )



- 114 -
3.03. The Reallocation of ProJect Funds
In March 1985 more funds were required to cover
additional expenditures  for civil works.   Ae-cordinaly  a
reallocation of funds were attempted, using unused funds from
the category contingencies. The result is shown in Table 14.
As a result of the financial problews encountered by the
Government, there were not enough Rupiahs to cover this
ambitious program, so that the scope of work has to be
reduced.   The  first reallocation was introduced  in  Maret
1985 and the second in July 1986.
Table 14    TWO REAL WCATIONS OF PRoJKCT FUNDS (USSOOO)
Category           Original    March 85   July 86   Actual
disbursements
Civil works          3,500      12,500    9,700      8,165
Equipment            3,800       5,200    6,900      7,647
Fellowship          11,300       15,500   16,800    15,961
Expert services      9,100       6,500    6,500       6,402
Pr,fessional ser.    5.300       5.600    4,900      4,688
Managment              --           --       200       241
Contingencies       12,000         --        -          -
45,000      45,000   45,000    43.104



- 115 -
3.04. Disbursements
1.   Because   of  many   delays  in  project  activities,
disburnements  were   somewhat  slower  than   appraised.
tlverholoes   the  first diabursemnt started  as expected,
although for only 4OX.  In general the procentage of amounts
disbursed maintained this low figure, with the result of an
accumulation of undiabursed money.
2.  Progress was also  slowed down caused by  the  cut  in
Rupiah  spending,  especially  in PY 86/87  and  87/88.   To
alleviate this problem, the Government of Indonesia made a
request to the Bank to increase its former share in Civil
works  from an original 20X to 80%.   This was agreed,  after
which disbursement increased subtantially.
3.  Nevertheless,  at Dec.86 when the project was planned to
have been closed. only US$ 26,6 million had been disbursed.
An extension was requested and approved so that with the new
schedule, the closing date will be June 88. Iven this has to
be extended to September 1988.



- 116 -
Table 15    DISRfiBHBT OF PawJlT FUNDs (US$ MILLION)
(CU)UL&ATIV AMOUNITS)
Appraisal    X    Actual      X
December 31 1981         0,5    1.1     0,2      0.4
June 30    1982          1,5    3.3     0,5      1.1
December 31 1982         3,0    6.7     1.0      2.2
June 30    1983          5,0   11.1      1.3     2.9
December 31 1983         8,0   '7.8     3,2      7.1
Jiune 30    1984        13,0   28.9      4,2     9.3
December 31 1984        17,0   37.8     5,8    12.9
June 30    1985         24,0   53.3      9,0    20.0
December 31 1985        30,0   66.7      13,3   29.6
June 30    1986         39.0   86.7      15,7   34.9
December 31 1988        45.0  100.0      26,6   59.1
Jmne 30    1987          -    -          29.9   66.4
December 31 1987         -    -          32,9   73.1
Jime 30    19B8          -    -          37.6   83.6
September 30 1988        -    -          41.1   95.8
c:yiyi



- 117 -
US   (million)
0      U'n          U3  * 0        U      O             aO
dec 31 c                   _
Jun 30   r
Jun 30 T  - j  -                  - i'-   -  --
deC 31 w   -.-             -       -             -       -
jun 30 m                   -              -
4%~ ~~4
dec 31 c        .                  -      -      -       -     -      -
N)  -
jun 30              -                            -      -             -
dic C 21 0                       ~......          
jun 30 
dRc 31       -
Jun 30       -      -       -
sep 30. :                                                   -
the disbursements of lo.
The disbursements of loan-funds



- 118 -
4.PEXIET OPERATING OUTCOHRS
4. .General
1.  In  genoral, the proj ect has mt targets as  pecifled
during  appraisal and in the loan aeent. The min  share
of the loan goes to fellowship and training amon tig to ama
US$ 15 million or 33 has exceeded the target even by 59X in
ter   on ran-years  and 120 X in ter   of the number of
participants.
2. Next to fellowship and training in this share in civil
works.  This part of the project is an ongoing program.  As
it will be completed in the second phase, a meaningful
assesment can only be done after completion in the second
phase.  Nevertheless, the amount for civil works has gone up
from US a 3.5 to some US $ 9.5 million, mostly because of the
inclusion of additional works into the program.
3.  The  project has made some savings in the use of expert
assistance without diminishing the quality and volume of
services  required.   This has been made possible by the
mobilization of inherent capabilities within the project
institutions.   The  developj nnt of the MRS is a smple  of
what in  said here.  The MRS has been tried out by Prof
Prayoto and his staff at UGI.



- 119 -
4.3.University output
1.  one or the objectives of the project  LB to  increase
output in selected fields over short. medium and long torms,
through :
- the development of policies at th3a three proJoct
universities
- the expansion of physical facilitios
2.  The number of graduates is constantly  increaindg which
ny partially can be attributed to the rise in the number of
enrolled students.   But when the output  is  expressed  in
precentages, this factor is automatically ellminated.   The
following table shows the increase in output although in
certain circumstances there have been decreases Figures are
taken from HKS reprots for 1986.



- 120 -
Table 20
U1iIVITY 0IflPwUL
(Percntage of graduate. against total enrollmnt
-~~~~~~~~~~~~G   _:
1978  1986  1987  197 8    1 1987 : 1978  1986 11987
Egineeringa        3.5   4.5            4.7   7,5   9.91   -
Science/Kath. '    7.7  13.3       t   8.2 1 9.3: 7.7 : 8.4: 5.8  14.8:
'llowmics            3.8   5.2Z 6.2  11.2    7.9 ' 10.9: 6.0: 4.4  10.1:
3 lll;u       -      -   -   -     -  S-  S- lOS124    .
Agriculture         -         **                           10.51:12.41  8.91
,Anll Husbandry:   -       --: -:-:--                    81 : 8.3  11.3
Biologw          I        -       -           11.1 :10.7:        -     :  -
3 XoV   -    -      -     -    8 . 1 : ';, 1 :-  :  -:  -,
IGeography  -,                   1~~~~~9.11   ~1       
Pharimcy         :  -  :  -                             S- 
- -- - - - - - - -9. .                     2.6 -  -  -
4.  The  increase in the rate of output can undoubtedly be
attributed to policy   aaures taken at the  universities
including the credit system of course requirements and a
thesis with fewer number of credits attached, apart from a
fixrmr control of the student flow.
4.2. Student flow
1.   The control of the flow of students  include the
motification given to students who are probable candidates
for repetition more than twice an allowed.  The figure  for
probationer range form 1.7 to 3.6 X (compared to the total
nuaber of students enrolled in faculties supported  by  the
project)



- 121 -
2. The number of students admitted after pasing the
Sipenmaru entrance examination is very low compared to
students applying for admission.  The precntage for Unand
in 1986 is for instance only 7.1 X which somn that
applicants outnumber those who are admitted by the figure 14.
Table 17 gives figures in which the rate for admission in
calculated  against the number of applicants.   The other
figures are  calculated  against the number of  studets
enrolled in the departments supported by the project.



o                                                 mg
N                                -I I         I   
ff~~i  5I   I                 
'C..  .a  ..IIA O    .I.
       | | | | |Ai% 01 1l
i ~~  @- ''''**@**i    I
ii ij I              ee! Isgo  



- 123 -
Table 17.   THE FLOW OF STUD9NTS
_ _    _    ______ _______ = _ _ =_________   I
:                t  ~~~~~~UI             Wm             UNA1ND:
number of          nmbr of:       :numbr of:
:                       S students      X  : students  : X  : students   X
:*                    -                                                      :
Admitted (Xof applic) :     -        4  :  1282       8.6        618   7.1:
: Rapetitor   )               -         -.2
: Drop out     ) of en       16        0.4       59     0.6:        11  :0.2:
: Graduates    ) rollm.:    365        8.9 :  1011   :10.0 :       3So   : 8.5:
: Probationers )        :    82      :2.0       167    :1.7        170   3.6:
3.  The figures in this table are obtained from a MRS Report
for 1986/87. Fiures for 1985/88 are also available. but an
said by the report itself, these are the result of a first
attempt at developing M8S.   Consequently the  figures are
not always accurate caused by several factors like faults in
filling out questionnaires, inconsistenies of data etc.
4.  The organizmrs of MRS are fully aware that  much
zpreveOMent should be expected from subsequent efforts in ME5
in  its data gathering and data processing  operations.  For
the tim  being, the least that can be said  is that the
figures indicate that more for have to be made to improve the
uanogenent of university affairs.
5.  As no previous data aro available stretching over much
more years, no cmpwrative a^seeumnt can be sade over longer
periods.    The effectiveness of the flow of students can
also be assesse  frm the number of years a students require
to complete a course.



- 124 -
Ideally a university student should complete his course in
five  years  (except medicine).    If he needs more,  the
effectiveness of education will be lower than lOOX.   Table
18 ehows this in figures for 1986/87
At present, it seems to be too early to make an assesnment of
the impact of the fellowship program or the quality of
education in the faculties involved.  Such an assessment  is
very important however, and should be attempted in the
futere.
Tabel 18
AVERAGE YEAR O  STUDY  (1986)
U.I.   :  U.G.M. :  UNAND
Engineering                7.0        7.6         -
:oience /Math               6.5        6.8        6.0
:conomics                   -         6.3         -
* Agriculture                -          -         5.8
An4mnl HhWbandr  :M                              5.0
Biology                     -    :   6.8   :    -    :
Geography                             5.8-
Pharmacy                              5.7         -
The figures given in this table are received by MES from
the  faculties  concerned.  The calculation has been  done
locally.    In  the  1986 MRS report. it  is  said that the
figures given are too optimistic.   In one case a figure  of
5.0 has been given, which may be caused by a too soft
screening pproces.  There seems to be much improve ent since
the  Appraisal Mission was in  Indonesia  in  1979.  This
migsion gave the following figures for 1978.



- 125 -
Tabol 19
AVERAGR YEAR OF STUDY (1978)
-U.1.     U.G.A.  u:mtD
1Eo8inoeewin              8.0        9.4
Scienco /eath             8.0        7.0        8.5
:conomics                 8.4        7.5       10.0
: Xriculturo          :    -          -        10.0
: _1i_ lt- :e-                                   7.6
2AnimlHlIuabandry7.
4.4.IinancIal aid to students
1.  The Governnt continues to provide financial aid  to
students, in  -arying  procentages between  faculties  and
regions.   In general less than the IOX as suggested by the
Appraisal Report for a target to be achieved in 1985.
Table 21
STUDENT UXCUIRVNG FINANCIAL AID (X of enrollbnt)
*                                                           .
:           :     ~~~~~U. I .   : UGH   : UIUD 
:                 : --   ---- 
1985  1986   1985 :1986   1985  1986
;           .       ___ __ __-         --_ _ _ _  
;ngineering         -    3.82  3.4    1.5    -
Sciencel/Kath.     7.3  14.2  5.0  13.9          o   2.7
Economics            -     -      -    3.0   2.7        0
iture                            -      -    19.1   4.8
AnilHusbadr         -      -      -      -    17.9 5.1
Biolo                            3.5      0    -  2
*bogr - -       8.5   3.5 -
Phmma-                     -    9.5   4.9    -         -
2.  The highest number of students receiving aid will be in
those fiolds of study that are less attractive to students,
such an Science/Mathemutics.



- 126 -
As this financial aid to students Cs a recent development, no
qualifying conoents can be given at present an to trends.
This is clearly shown in the figures in the table.



- 127-
4.5.Staff in post
1.  Continued e"oritment and apointmnt of teaching  staff
brings  the nvmber of permanent staff in poet to the  figw'e
shom in the following table.
Table 22.
fUImB  0F BULL-TIER IN POST
==== _                                                        _=_______ ___ =c__== 
: ' ~~~~~~U. I.                Is    :               UIIAND:
1978  1986: 1987: 1978   19M   198   1S98  1986I 1967:
*             S~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ _ __   _ _ .-    _-        -_____________ _   a
:Kugineering       -:        191? :        60 216 :22B?    -:  -:  33
-Science/Math  : -:   168?                 386    84    95:  99:  132:  126:
Rconouic2  -    205  219                  33    99?   99:  76   105 : 107'
Aariculture          -      -      -      -      -      -  :  89   1S: 130
Animal Husbandry     -:    -       -      -:    -:   -:   63:  108: 10?
Biology              -  :  -  :-          26    58:   56?   -  :  -         -
Geography        :      :  -       -      54:   70:   69?   -  :
:Pharmacy         :                 -      55:   73    73       -  a  -       -
(1) & (2)   included in Scienou/t4ath
(Data taken from MM Raport 1988 and 1987)
The new appointments are generally St degree holders without anY
prior eeperience in teaching of in administratio.



- 128 -
4.6.Student   Teacher Ratios
1.  The Appraisal Mission had suagested the formulation of a
rational standard for the ratio between students and teachers
to be achieved in 1985 (July). Actual figures for 1986 oess
to be close to the standard goal, although in sme instances,
there is still a wide deviation.   A for all universities for
1978 is also included as another basis for comparison (taken
from the Appraisal Report)



Table 23
STUDENT : TEACHER RATIOS
All          U.I.            UGM                     UNAND
Goal   Univ.----------------------------------------------------_
:                  : 1985 : 1978 : 1986 : 1987 : 1978 : 1986 : 1987   1978   1986 :1987
: Engineering      :   15 :16:    14              :   38:   22:   21:   -           -        7:
Science/ Math.    :   15:   8          9 v :          13:   16:   1B:   -  :   10:    9:
:Economics           2   20:  22  :    7:    7 : 35            20      21      -      212    19
:Agriculture         :   12 :10:   -  :   -a  -  :   -                 -       -2      8       8:
Animal Husbandry        -:   -  :   -  :   -  :   -  :   -  : -              -  :    a       7
Biology            :    -:   -:   -  :   -  :   -            14 :   18:   -  :   -  :   -
Geography          :    -:   -  :   -  :   -  :   -  :   10          11i:   -  :   -  :  -
: tharmacy   :    - :~~~~~ -  :    -    -      -:           ,    8: -: -: -:
Pharmacy           :      :                                   a:::::::   -
____  _  ___________________________  __________________________    __________________-



- 130 -
4.7.Staff Qualification
1.  The qualification of teachers has improved considerably
since  1978.   The  annual increase  for S3  (PhD)  degree
holders is between 20 and 30X while that for S2 (Hater)
degree  holders between  30 and 5OX.   The target of 50X
advanced degree holders to be achieved during the Second
University Developqpent project seems to be reasonable and
within  reach.   The  following  table provides percentage
figures (for departments included in the project only).
Table 24.
Persentage distribution of staff by qualification
=== =-=-    -=          = --  =- --==-- = =------= = -= --
:     '       ~~~~U.I.      U.G.M.   :     UNAND (X)'
:~~l   :                    :               :J4
'1978:1986:1987  1978:198681987:1978: 1986:1987:
_______--     ---    --- - -----------  :
sarjana S3:   8: 12'         6'  14:  14   2:   5'  6:
Sarrjazaa S2:  10:  256      9:  26:  27:  8:  23: 23:
SarJana S1: 82:  63:        85:  600  59:  S0:  72: 71:
Hore details are given in Annex 16
2.   This  improvement can for lOOX be attributed to the
fellowship component of the project. Percentages are against
total of 81-82 and S3. not against total number of staf.
The two totals may differ caused by the methodology used in
data collecting.   (Annex 16 gives more details)



- 131 -
4.8. Staff Work-Load
1. The Appraisal Mission had also made a suggestion on the
distribution  of available  time  for  the  teaching staff.
HormIly the work-week consists of 30 hours.   According to a
decree of the Director General fir Higher Bducation, the
work-load   of a university  teacher   includes  teaching,
research,comunal   services, guidance  and  tutorial,  and
adainistration.
2.   Table  25  shows the actual distribution  against  the
figur3s suggested by the Appraisal Mission.
Table 25
Staff Work-load (1986)
Appraisal figures   UI      UGH  :UAND:
Teaching        credit hrs/wk:9-12    4.1 : 10.9       7.4
Research +
Other           credit hrs/wk:   3    4.4    7.1       4.3
Administration  % of total bhs:4-5 : 14.0 : 10.2    14.3



- 132 -
4.9. 1natruction materials
The purchase of booke to enhance the collection of
libraries hao been completed in two phases.  The first phase
includes  18.000 copies and the second 24.000  copies at v
total cost of US$ 2-7 million.   The number of books per
student as shown in Table 26 in still low compared to
universities in neighbouringcountries.  The Appraisal Report
mentions a figure of 30 for the philippines, 60 for Malaysia
and 100 for Singapure.
Table 26
Books Per Student Ratio
U.I.    :    U.G.M.      UNAND (X)
:  :---- ----- ::
1986 : 1987 : 1986 : 1987 : 1986: 1987
------------------- _- - --------  -- - - -   -:-  -      -
:Engineerig          0 .6 2 N.A    4.4  : 5.4:  -:   -
Science/Math       8.6 2 N.A    9.5  : 7.9   0.52  0.4
Economics        ' 31.7 2 N.A  : 8.4    8.6 2 5.4: 5.2
Agriculture          -    -        -      -    10.5: 11.0
Animal Husbandry     -  :          -   :  -  : 1.42  1.5
Biology             -     -   2 8.4    7.7     --   1.52
Geography                         0 -  2 -   : 0.7  2 1.52   -2   -  :
Pharmacy             -    -   :16.0   28.4 :
Average           13.6  N.A  2 5.2  2 5.2 :4.52   4.5
2.  In some cases lower figures are obtained for 1987. This
is caused by the increase in the number of books being not in
step with the increase in the number of students.
3.  Low figures for certain departments seem to be caused by
the recency of their establishment.   Some departments are
fortunate and approach the books ratio for universityies in
the Philippines.



- 133 -
4.  The MRS report for 1987 says the use of the library (the
number of books read per student per semester) to be as
follows  : Ul 19.9 - UG  = 12.2 and Unand =  20.9.        The
number of books in the library is shown in Annex 17.
c:yukifyoyu



- 135 -
Annex 1
INDONESIA SCHOOL EDUCATION STRUCTUR8                                                a         63
I            U 9  1 2   12 13 141        15 16 1!  S    1519  20 U  a   531(ea)   83       Sm J.3
II13-1I! 5         T  1 I u :ft.muIugi hIafu
(*plmf.htuiin )
W1 1  :  lt 11     Jim
spoill   SIe U !                                          lutidikmn     I
R        3T PI  dit
l___  (Ilut.foi !etlau
1  2  3        1  2  3          Diplmoouu                         hi ) -   a
Dl Dt        X 3
*     kk.1.b km (Prism Schiols)                         bPolt.ch1  3 T
U     1Sol1b Ihuab   Irtau
EA  SSkla Ubmup  It" a                                    1 12  3
(hido 1g S1 ooll
S  :Solab bhkologi
(ToctimI Jlie  ih School)
Rl 6.1.b1. !.kologi hump_
(vagitimi   no ib Sol.)
o: bihM,



- 136-
Annex 2
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HIGHER EDUCATION
DlmBi mu
Project   Sert-         Director         Diretor       Director       Deetor
bnit         at          admic          Set            -ac           private
Xe.i           tAf fairs,   I                 nv.Sernuidt,
l II
The  Projeci t Institution!
{  i.   ! ! iiY.   !.uDniv.
[ondoeuia         J Zgadjab Nadal    Andalas
Engineering        Engineering      Science
scince             Science          Agiculture
Ecomic             Economic         Econoic
hibi/u.ar



- 137 -
UMl 3
WflAL PJaw         UIT Am
Idoational planner      Arohitec'-/zwinnep-  Coat eatmter/
Trainig  pocializ      3qi   pent aspc.er
Tec4nical asaistamce    Supporing staff    Supporting stat
SUPportingstf
output                 Output                Output
Academic masterplan      Architec.disaW/       l4get
Coup. iasterlau          drawing              Pait and apLina-
Staff de.prowam          Tender documents    tio  for dil_mmt
Land aciujdtiom     lPAR
Instructional mat.       5qIpeept list
-                 ~~~~Prommeut
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



i'i            I! Ei v:                              ifvir2[ j  ;TTtX.
K        K        K   . K           KC       K         K 
#        K        K        K      K K        K         K        Z
K        K      K K        K      K          K        K K    i     
K         K       K        K        K         K        K 
e                                                  
K~~~~~~~ K. __ . .                          K        K             __   __   __   _*   _.    __



- 139 -
Annex 5
TEM8 F OW UFRRMC
MUCIA
I. PUWPOK
The Directorate General of Higher Education and WDCIA place a
high priority  on the  further development of teaching  and
research programs in areas of higher education in Indonesia.
To *his end, the Directorate General has requested and kDCIA
has agreed:
A. To  extend support to  staff of specified  Indonesian
Universities while they take advanced training in MUCIA
member universities, in other U.S. institutions or in
institutions of higher learning in third countries;
B. To provide  technical services  to the University of
Indonesia, GaJah Mada University and Andalsa University;
and
C. To   create capabilities within the offices of  the
Directorate General of Higher Education to manage
fellowship  and technical  sistance programs such  that
the  D     tak force becomes the nucleus for a  similar
national prograu.



- 140 -
A..
A. JalJ.wabim 2zaEnGsc
This program is designed to privide graduate fellowship
for   study  leading  to  the  degree level of   maters,
doctorate or the equivalent over the TENR of this
Contract, for approximately four hundred and fifty (450)
san years of study up to the amounts stated in Appendix F
and consistent with Article VI of this Contract. All
degree programs shall be in an area as requested by the
Directorate General.
B. Tac-JcaLh miat na =
Technical assistance will be provided on both long and
short-term assignments, for an approximate total of sixty
(60) mrn-years up to the amounts stated in Appendix F and
consistent with Article VI of this Contract.
Long-term technical assistance staff may be assigned to
one   of  the proJect universities  for  periods  of
imately two years, usually twenty-four moths eah.
In mour cases, where a particular set of skills are
needed for only one year, the individual will be
transferred  to  another university. if vossible,  to
midnimize  international transportation costs.



- 141 -
In other caoes where sets of skills are required for
three or four years, MUCIA will attempt to find one
individual to fill the position for Its full duration to
minimize trortation costs.
Short-term staff will be utilized for varying periods of
tim   depending on  the needs of the  program  and the
availability  of qualified  staff.  The extension  of
appointment periods shall be made only thrugsh Joint
aygreeant of the GOI Project Director and MUCIA. Specific
duties or tenrs of reference for each technical
assistance post, including required qualifications and
duration of each assignment, will be defined by the
Project Director and the Resident Representative working
closely with the ProJect Implementation Unit and the
coordinating umits at each university.
C. lalmhaand Isachuni. al suaa   aaiin   rgm
fr tha   19 StAff
1. One of the primary reponsibilitios of the kIClA
Resident Rer es ntative will be the teaching of office
procedures for fellowship and technical assistance
management. including but not, limited to all of the
activities   described above under fellowship  and
technical assistance  programs as they relate   to
eanagmu -t



- 142 -
2. A selected team of GOI Staff Members from the DGHN
Task Force and/or project universities will be sent to
the U.S.
3. MUCIA will prepare two (2) program  on  fellowships
and/or technical assistance mmnag ent to be given at
each of the project universities and for the DGHK
during the second and fourth years of the proJect.
D). grnran..1xanuatinn
1. At approximately eighteen months after the signing of
the Contract, a formal program evaluation will be held
to   determine  progress under the  fellowship  and
technical assistance programs to date and to adjust
program guidelines and goals to allow for changed
needs and conditions.
2. At  approximately  the  end oA year three of  the
contract, a second formal program evaluation will be
held to review progress in the developymnt of the DGHB
unagemsnt office and of the fellowship and technical
asistance program.
3. Six months prior to  the end of the T           of the
Contract a third formal program evalution will be hold
to review the entire Contract program and prepare a
final proJect report.
c:yano



B 'Ti
..g....I.. l..g.l.. -                                      - |- - - - -   - W- - - - -  -  -     -         -     -
..... S..I.*..S.S  ,  ...                                         . S   S     I                 I           c.
-:. .P.                                                                         
__~~~~    -                                       -----         - -   -__ -  - -
- ----  -      -      -      -     ---     -      -      -      -      -      -- --  --  -- --  --  ---
-  ---     -      -      -      -     ---      -      -      -      -      -      -- --  --  --  --  --  -- 



04
-J-- ~- --J----0-------i*o@
tS -  _ - _________ ____ _ ._.____.__
-dd        d 
iu;iiffJfjiIiiiiI...
a~ ai
ii-iij--i--l-l--             -----i-R- 
ll---X-0-0-a-X-X l-0 l l l ] }-l * 
d d d               d~i dI      i  d  ddi



-------   --I--
F                                           I                      
I-~~~~~~~~~~~---------
f -     ----------- -l -'' -  -[- ''- - - - - -----ll--
---0 0000000000                     0000-----00--
-  ---.-- .-------------------------- .--------
ft  868  S*8        --8--  --         ----
.......................
I t        ;||:i   ;      
3 ...                                           h6 . .....N... 
me.              NM                  N                 MMN" "   
I * ..
I    ..                  ..                    . N........ 
> ___________ .................... -___-________ ...................... *__ -__to
a              ..                    _     _         @ >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
fu.                                                _  



ww-  w    *  *vovv*  P oo v -e*X*** B*w= s  *  *** ---  --  ---  II  
ppl!SlFpu!SspMpeb--  I 
I[(i- 1r'(I' l'II'E;-X1t1-
-XXF-a'l'-''XXX'lX-15l!X
BR    2  axaabaat  S             E~~~~~
,jgf fi                 2 { jt jE              w 
^         1r                          eK11r     U 
4:
p3        83 3 3 33 8 1                         b  P    Y          o    o   P  po1
i  I  8   g   i  a  *  a  a  a  a  a  8   a  g  I  a  a  a    
_      .....,_... ________ .......................... _
33 3e    33  33S3S3ZI*3
_______,,,,. ~  .,,,,,_,,,,,   __ _._ _ _ _ _  _
..~~~~'                    _                  V._.,,,, .....  .,__......... ______ ..................... 
.4             .44.             '4      V
.. _ __ ,,,,, , , ,._ . ,___ _ ________ _U 
.......... . ........ .. . 
... ____ .... ...... _ ........._______ ______  4t 
___ _ ,,, ,,.__.____________ _I u
_R_____ ,,,,W,,,.,                  _            ___,____
_________.,,._ __ _________________ __~a



[$N                     'a | f g ft  IX
..g- -. - --------------g---S--t----[-----S-F-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
ii,, a                      tixJX
.        ........ . ...
.---..-----                                       
- . -- -...- - ..- - - ..-  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -       
K--~-----                                         -----
..... .. .. --  ......-- - - - -  ____ - -  __ ___ -  ________-_
-.-.. -.    _ ________________________________
F                                  urn                 I 
. _               _______________



Li *@vov p    po*v*s***-------
.. i.    
"~~~~~ I
I8:;:;:WS
F                                       
U             :            $Wt    ;
..  ....... ... _P_ ,,,,,,______
ssh e h h "
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............................ ,,__,,_______
..-      -        --  --  -- -   - - - - N---
X   _   ___  ______________________~~wi0



* .8                         .3__     _ .3.3.31......  1 ._  _  
a t 
jpt               X btttb   tt                  > 
~*9           _ __,, __ __          N.       _      3 . _
9u                _     _____ _         _      ;      N.__ __
_ MM____ _N_z ...  .  ._g___
. __......._ ..__ ....__....  __
; is: i i js i i:  i s; s i i i i i: a,    * e    . *3
X ~            000000000000008 8   :    : 5d:
_ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . . _ . _ . _ . _ . . _ . _ . . _ _ . _ _ _
a'                  |iii                        .j i   
'-I                       {. 
*~ ~~~~ if_L_iJ___..~..I.iIiifI _ IL   _____



--  @     *--- ------- -------
# ~~p p  p p p p p.
|1                            .~~~1
!6~~~~ 
*    ..   .
-  --------
.---------
-             - .-... . ---_________
b                           '4.   __'4_____
..~~~~~~~~~ ..__________%......  
f _ . __________ i0
.. _ . _ ________ l0
e _ ............._______ 



P-e f *@ p       p  P,  p   -  p p W f p p    p-         
It!~t
Yv --------              ------------
i   Il'!!l,il:iSllllTM i                            j fi       '
I   SI I   *  I * S S S S S  Sil    555 |||  
8  e  b:t#       e        b e    b ::e   be  N:       V 
____ be                       U    be __..   _____ ............... _________..............................____..__..______._________i.
"  "    "   "     "       "    "      t~~- 
_____............_ . __ __................_______________ ___ ____ 
" " " " " "  :
___________._.._____.._ ...____5_____ 
__ __  _  __  _.._  __  _ __  _  __  _ __  _  __  _ __ 



~~~~~~~~~-   -   w   tir~r. :.- :S - *._ _.
i[? f'' I!E !IXf                                     -I-  fiIl5   ;f
~~~~; 111111!   WrX   XffX  
[~~~ !                   -                  
* . . | |  l,      * .., In  *, . ,           -  
..Xi    a              i p p  a p                                    
....  ..............._ .... _... __ ...__ _
___ ...... _ I _ I _   I _ ..... _  11*           _______
-____......-                              -     -      -     -     A....._ ..   _.. ________
~.-.-s___..-.OQM.____ ....______............  
__...t... _ .. _.   _________0 
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~f I.t.



ff1  ,                      rllrrrr PF 8!1P  
hw    .. 
I~~~~~~~~~~ li
I       .!!  e                                             w ;b;eeeW    eePt
.      * I     S O I   0  I  I  I  I  I  I 
I                          MN   N N           
I    X     "  "                         6"N
|~  ~.. g  @ *--..--------" 
NNNNNNN                              b
fi.                                                (.1------



NI                              5~~~~~~ 
- - -  --  - ---- - - - - -Z -- - - - - - -@ - - - - - - - - - - - -             
------------'-      -       --- -t--#-1-----  ---
ft     #1       .t      ,     a if      a aa      *
x IRFR!~ ~ i !   9!J,II I
....-------------.
*a.... a a  a a             ..*  a ,...., . ,    .
: |C  #:   PaF  g  || t;   gS 
__ ._ _.... _   _. _ ._     _  _ N_     __  __   __  _    ___H  m
N               kW                H    H           I      
______~~~ II........  .._  __ .........__________ 
H  N                                                   t    
____ .......        ......___   .........,................ ________  
_..__..__...._____.._________________________.1              .
________~~~~~ .... _______________  .................... 



i f !     g I ! j !                   if           j  WfXE
pp Z
0000000   00  0  0   0  000      0000  0
S114 S I: I I: 8 I P 6 I I I S I: I S g
.......................
e:uxe;;@5ssqeP6:euFcN
................
N ~                                        
.. .                                            .d. ....................... ............... ...
.... ............. ........................ .......... ...............................N..
______.          _    _.          _             ____________



P n n   b  b  F  P  !4 r      w   4 r  .<                       r              :-      r
..                                                                        ii @  Iiii!
I'~~~~~~~ 
n~~                                                                                             ~                 ~ 5  .                    I
w  0  P  ~~~Po or Po Po Po Po op                                                                  OF Ol"tf ^f    sF
n ....|......
.     ............... ................ __.........                                   -----------
F                                                                                               p p~~ pp   
..  ......    ...       ..................... _      _     _    -       ----- ------------
.. ..                     _ .4                                         ................ ..................___________...................... 
~~~~~b                                            -- ---- -- -- -
.._                                           _    ___.. -... _. ____........ __ .... 
__.. ...................g___W_gg__
..~~~~~~~~~~~ . ......                        - -. . ... . . . . . .....   - -. . . .. .. . - . . . - . . . . . .. ___ - . .... -   - -  _ _   . _ - . . . - _ _ - _ _ _ _ _   - -



w -                                              4 * o - o w 9 6 to
I IWto
.                                  H~~~00
,...................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-I.
00
mow             S~~~~~~~~~
I I I II''                       0 0              I                             00 a0 
a   a   a   a   a I a   aI-aaA
........ . ..................................... -- -- ----  - 
.   .   . ..         ..........   ...... .s .
___ 88.              ,    __               _                _  _ 8_____  E..........S~
--  * --t    t---*X-E-Xo-W---**-- 
____~~ ....                            ..     ..      ...            .................................. _  N    _  MN   ...U __



|  n "p " pp y p$ iip p p 1
n ... ......
A.~~~~~0
I    WI  III||    Fill FE 
I      ..   .                  
a.. ............... _.  _ _   -___-___
li.I. i   * . ., s; e e e e e
I ;.-..- .
a " 
._ ___. _ ______.__ D
. . .                             .............. 
. X. .  .              --          S



- 159 -
Annex 8.1
uAp M s _  b                                                                                                  Page 1
|~~~~~~~~~~ In                           mI                     I M         L I t I ft  ft I asI n I  _ I &IOI
2; is:o  n ano                        fWNN . ML                t   IL  I  L    - 76M
a:                             ..                                  - 
: :Q           )                                                        I      -I  1     I   I   I     I   I   I   I
.                                                             I   V.O   a            a                        a I   ..    x
a. afu   "umaM    ofa                                          a       ao  O   &    -o.8     I::   I ::
S. Ivi1 "                      Mg m                                M    OBn ^-      X Is a  It         Ij          I 
;    *                          a                              atite  a_u  11     0a.t-o.l: tat      a      a:    i  i
9.39u  ft i    I        J        t . ofvdd . 1_                     t l.O  OIL  - Ot.0l :X        
:5. I:     _    t      gm".d                . on                     L   0   .0W -0?.8 A        I XS    2 1   1         '
i . U Il*   of.                                                                       a i      ao  a au  a.     a   a   a i ;  :
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.a.-. :  :a::: :  : . : a   :
94.  1_SZ                      i*_  9 n*1.          d         a   12.0  A04'OS.6S-.S  :X  :   :   :   a t  :
i tla.                                            o  .0                         - O                                    I
13 '        h  wa              :Cn   :m                        I                      :& 03-  -    |   :       :T
%:    Boo            '        0_0 . I             _               :.0 ' "." - OL6         :       X       :       Wd   
: 5. *lbe           _         : n. I o:O -e:t e :=                 i
:    :                          :                               :       a              :   :   '   a   :    a   :   a    :
Ia. :Atu                      H                    ma :           12.0: m.-q.- OL     : :    a   a            a   a
:   :                        :                               :       :                           a    :   a  a    a : 
:- :.6-14m          : u         AI. 0o-m:al                   I    .0 I GLOB -   r:  :  a   t         :   a   :   a   I
20l. Mw  SL.i it No                                                t^la   ''wu6     03   - OL&  'S        i S t 
*    '                          :                                      0 :05     0.8?: : a        : I       :   a   a   a
i20.              i                  f1asm_tam              t                        .0  a   -   a   *   .   .   a   
:13  :P     s.~                  a1lw                       -       i.aoS-.    :   a               :   a   a   a   a | 
:  :                    |                               t       X              X   |~~~  *    t  a  a  a  a  a  :
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -s@ o~us ,                                                a                a a



- 160 -
Annex 8.2
Page 2
niUDUP  M : Vsa   Cme
- - mirnm
gO.       Ato1iPA5      T              in== EB ODuz  umrawbI Us :                                 I t .  I Ab: I  I EL I GP0I t
I    t                          : * m   a                                          :     tI
t1.  t.Rswrl A    u*uu=                                                                 3 t      2. o f .   25  3   3i O  OlJ  3 a -  : I
23    3 (i.P.B.):Akaf UW                         M                   40050   O6 WI              2 3 3 5           2     3
3    :                                                      :            S              S        : S            : is       t
3i. IK,--Itwdor                 31T.o of  imia..W                               -03.67  3 t t :        i3    i t      : I   I
:4. 418ma MwbMe                  locin.                                 O  3 t          3 O  :   :   :   :                 I t    :
'.5. .giovs                      t9AU    Coa                         6.   j98                   tt   i   S iI   x Si      i
S2. gjl      w      :tIUSC Cu&                                   3j  12.0  07.86 - 06.87 t    j    j    t    t    t    j
9. :M                            2 S emu  :Iml3:. C3   3   32.0  3.V0 7    - 0Xt::
10. 3Iin wtri                    :I8. C       nan . a&               12.0 i07.g - a.87  3                                  t 3 ;   j   t  t
4.         z             '        W11.             H CWA             12.0 t0.81 - 06.87                i t t i  i . 
12- I.Bftu TS                                                  a        SB :N=  canok  MO  WAS:S 0S   S 



,                                      t---[-[-iW    lll       lg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( N ! b   i,
.... ._...__      i I|
II;-s-t             I;--
$#s88  g~~
II  I   
'''I*    I_,_eF_ 
* _boW_o__r |       b 
1 7                          .3w
_...S...g...S_.#___ _~~~~~~~~~~~I.



- 162 -
: -   UWu                                                O1Ig g tIAs    4
:-0 t ii      10.   I t                      a I  t  8
(wl !             3 f ~ ) .       Jwc"             G=R0              s11                       1 OIO   a!D   S    a   a 8        a   a      E    biO
:                                  -                                                                                _               _ 1           
* :D  m                                                                                        *   a   a   a   a :          a   a   a   
11   abuatoe_                       t.ca                                a         :zoua-os   a   a   a   a   a   t   a   ama
:    :                              :                                   :         a               a    a    a    :    I   :    a    t    :
a    a                              a                                   a         a               a    a    a    a    a   a    a    a    a
2    1.:no::a.  11.  10.                                                                         2   2 S        2   2   2   1   2   1
*                                                                                                                                        a                        



-.- .*--*---* ---
I~~~~~~~~~I
--- ---     --



- 164 -
Annex 8.6
mm= |tm                                                                                                        Page 6
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                  am  W. is I so:
S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~wo                                                                                                 : ~amuwu
:w.        of S    c:: :ua1m                       10                                                         to: I:  I lb: W  loop     :at
3    X'uus                          :                                   :         t               X   :   :   :   :   :   :    
,    ot :. ,                       WV,S. of .EU  US&                 ,      .0 I 008.01 - 07.8T'' ' , ,o
2  2  a                             *.                        a    a   a         a         :   :    :
' .   bt3    :ult                   li'. :i :mli                                                  : I            : : : 
a~~                                                        :        :                :aowa-iu  :   :   :   :   :   :   :   :~
*         *         *                a   2    2    1    2    2   a    a    a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*                     a        a                a         *   a    *    a    *    .   *~~



- ii
Eq
I: I
0
w
ii
I
F
I
*
0%
* .-..-.
0
pp
S
MI
w
d
-J4



s~~~ ------- --- b 
Er                 ~~~~~~i
it 
RI
i                      I
I                                          0"
I    ..      @      @    -
I s   ....
-..-.-....--              -
I     ..._j._ 



- 167 -
ulOnUP -  EML 0u                                                                           Annex 9.1
:    I                                                         -                                                 S
ID. I PART'ICIPANTI    TMIuI.i nwzu                        *     : IMO    tM   I        zuuewu 81     jvur
S ILILOI   M.U8 M_                                 S         :               S 
:      (I.S.B. )            :   -                                               a          
' 1. 'Sdf KW&                  Hbv. of HUM". gm          j   12.0 110.61 - 06.84   MOrm1e                       sSMwUIW
S 2.         Ntto                                             S.. of   o   S 30  0 - 0.86     bW S
S 3. UeS   bad        I     *1ueIhiv. of tmlnina Usk       2 0.0  ,0.63 - 05.   tIml.111      i S 
:    :                         :                                                   : 
3. STw Pbra Uaidl           :uul. of WI.oon. USA           12.0 105.86 - 06.67   Whemi1a1  Lmwizm
5. 1i1 ar T_a  MM            iUnv. of Mt .  USA            12.0 io05.e - o4.87  10icam   bgimmUwa
i6. i8rl- Haw  Mdan             olorado State Untv., MA     12.0 gos.8es- 04.e7   jB  jm
:    M                         1o aUniv. of Dela  *. us  :   14.0 o021es- 037    1clvU E e
S. Migen U. Haaka            Univ. of Colrao, USA    i   12.0 :S.88 - 07.87   1mot       lnmiaj
9. a t uli lubi             .Uiv. of Hi.  U                12.0 a08.8  - 07.8   : O      _e                    j
6O.  :ra Mama       tiCav. Sf inaitiV. rA                 1 12.0 :08.SS - 07.87   llota,w
11. a         aV :                 n.                  us   aZ.0 io7.es-os.s7   j_ o ba i
72. hMuoya  PA" mt           iUnhv. of 1il_aui. US i         7.0 102.86 - 03.87   Mci    cal b                 iawla x
13. :ui..tboal P Tdsia        IUnv. of   nmeooatd W8A u :    7.0 :09.86 - 03.87  O"Gotgiial atglueerin:
1-. ISti adi-    lTazd         iWUSC. oImads             j   12.0 107.86 - 07.87    anmpater icariage
a                          It                                                   I    
15. :olxrm Aetbi-             tErlel b Caoucl.t Um     :      . ew09.88 - 0Z.87  :ltxteelectre Zca       
10. Iataln AAdIt              Mrittak oCbunil. WA    1   1.0 po9.86 - 02e87 :.sd67trial *gglnertg
iT. Ma                         aadr                                a Arssnl  Writt  Col.UI  i    8.0 a09.88 - 0 . a  abtcicaa gogioel 
S1B. :Sudlrw                 618rittab OWAVU41 UK       :      .0 109.86 - C2;8    M    Wn^"Kbotromics
a 19. S Bi  BOM                iBriti C I1. UY             i     .0 S09.88 -         Sn..   sin.101 _w ini
I 2.  a..S I                     ritth C0    .,          a S    .0 aw9.81w0 - ino7      1 inaa.t.  Snraau 
S    a                         a                         a         a               a                             a
a  a                 a                        a         a               a                              a~~~



- 168 -
Annex 9
Page 2
U  * CD9                                                           Sriti  U. UK  6.0 a09 .8 - 02. a    am 'eoz   _ s
2. 2 aba Pztiadi             Mritish co ;1. UK         ;    6.0 09.86 - 02.6?   2GBi o   zuwta6
,,23. j^8m_ m8 Arlo Udua       Biis  savA.o    ,a             .0 -P.  - 02.s7 ,fiara   & i
24. :jlI gwoiMI              jBrithbmail. UE                8.0 :00.66 - 02.6    i       &ota Ste
25. :knimi Um                :cm.  Cmal U6.0 gos.a6 - o0.6?   :1faatiqw IS C
a    .                         :                         a        :                     



- 169 -
B
IELOIIP gm DOC1MIL                                                                                 Am   9.3
Few=m,   uINvTrzn7                                                                               Pae 3
a :                       :                          : w.                                                       S
S3. i :Rkhar gase  i   P ^ 0lstas sDRNUS n.Sa                  15. S,18  - 03S   DAS^lj  Scd
-                  ~~~~~~~. ,l   -
: : 8 . D S                                                  6-:                                                      2  
(I.P.8.) ~       ~~~~~ j                    S                          S                               ,S
*    :                          :                          S         S                6 
I    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
S. 2A1z arano                  Mort. of C lninSt. Utw   S     9.0 10.83- 06.6         mtitur
9. MSuanSR .P6oaC l ina v.o6nid.WA                               5.0  60.87- 0.8    H tcl
20.   nbra Jr.a     in         vUn.v of  ealamri,   US          4.0 :10.87 - 01.84    Hu-imu   Soe:
IS  "Hln  'IhA         v o      i'ri.ibmllS. UK                  .0 -O.0986 - 02.87 h.1ooia  d _ogFioewi         a  
*2. 'dahat Sa t                 eBIis.          il.  US         1.0 '09.5B - 02.87   :red ScSen e
f. Ebran S  urobo            R1ort CaDia mStu smiv.s 1St      5.0 201.66 - 05.8?   Hotiuturs
11. :Hblen Ysf                       ofia Count U,  U    I   16.0 :109.88  02.87   IIertlvsizal SaiebEuyrl
13. 2wamtiti Kuamorini         'Britiah eof   il. UK      i      .0 209.86 - 02.67   hBiological InL
14. :Mtihued Sva    n          ,iWUSC. Cofdis                  12.0 207.86 - 08.87   ,Cntla'r Science



r. . p 
''''''-  -
II{
.. I,.. ..t .... 



I;
h.P
I,
I
3 ,
I
3
*g
a       e
3             Si
-             all
5% I
6-4                         -
*               I
Is
III -finI.U4
0.
ii   U-  I
.l        a    -
.4
a



u   t~~~~  t- ~
o   -1- -I  L  * v
111 aI
............. II...........
I ^ g| . I
...u b__
WIS' | . wN
_@ __ 
0.    
33.3g 
...... I  . .
{[II
ii    Ij |{



-173 -
n a       gmc'                                                                                  Af    9.7
: a                                                       -  .    :             
S    : 3~                     S                         I        S I
a      a                        a         a~~~~~~~~2   *            ora/FX
1.  AKII N.A               :Mritah O      . U  S     :    6.0 :.0S - 02.8       otSw s:  :
:    :                         :                        :        :               :                             :
*                              '           .            t        '               t                             I
:                                                                                  



- 174 -
UAn   9.0
m    Ro       1mmT                                                                            Ste  8
-           _                                            ..                                                   :
t   .   .       .   .  ~.                           .DCU                   I
*  GUI                      :                         :    -    t                    
:0.   PARTICIPANT   I : ZhINUTIMIGN   :                          :       : I: i    Sof
1. :5.v.d  palso1           Swmc, Cans"                    12.0 Wa.M  - 06.87   :O=zti So-i
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                a        a                a Xa  



- 175 -
R
IELUUP  X  mCNL a                                                                            AM= 9.9
-   I=  i=mrturz                                                                           Palm  9
0.0 '
MD 'P  R        T I C I P A     R&S '     M             *                               W =  X
jHU*                       ,,                                 X
3 1. hoot Lilia1m. Irtam                        ,         36.0 1.10.86 - 08.8?   IPbtoIm   mndiy
:    : 



- 176 -
VEL01P Ka 1X2CIUL DuMR                                                                        AAi  9.10
S Mm          IeTiUT                                                                          Pap  10
:       --IU                                            .aI                                                   : M
:     :P           Ia.:  u:   :                                                                             :
:                                                                                                             :
:    :.x x                    :                         :        :               :                             :
I. :&0wpo Scauo             Whob  Stat gd., Uk    :   58.0 :10.8 - 07.6   :rt
:    ST o    1:SSO:PIiS 
Mo,   I5  -0MattI vnt   4
cmr Jm/r,



- 177 -
SPsMUr saunm0 w
_v lo
Pt  1
:    -:
:s  :                   :          wwr          : (th)                    :                           :UW  lJT1
S     LAS~      h Celt   S                       S         '              ',S
1. :Nr.C.AL fox       :I=                          24.00 0.84 - 0Ot.86    C rtwSC (& B)
a  a                  la                                               I 
2. ,IFu.R.lhtao        5iV. of Wi&     .   I        0.50 Sm *S 
3. :mI.T.C u           SUDniv. of H1aemsn. WI A     0.50                 :
4 4. :D.L1zhO             Maiw. Of willn. u:           0.50       :     :
5. :Prof.LYw           Mkiv. of 1imuuuln. USA        1.00 :02.8? - 03.67  MUav. Uhuamut
:     T o                :                       :   ZBa.50
:     aW..                                                                                             :  ~S~ 



- 178 -
8
s suxur s.UV1czSITI0   lF            
Ammax to
Pe  2
~* 2
*        I                           *~~~~~~~In5w.               *                              I
S.  :o   j L             ^      5D   jMf I   S'  (mt)    i    XO    i                    iIIW/
S      2B. LW.O l                                      S           S                .                               S
i1.  23.C.T?                 Mllid Sta  St.U             i    2.00  S.0 4 - 07.e5 iMPtStics                         i
|2-  ,D1r.C.Cbrly          ,U91T. at Wicni,  MA              0.10 i0B.84 - 09.84      i 
3. Ior.6.thm j              Gi_              t a              1.50  10.84 - 0.6 j
*4.    r.H.fsaer             *Glasses  S    *t n              6.00   18t0 - 0.e5      n
:  .  :Dr.H.Neaobewbr      :Giem _   Uiv.wevt Gernn  :      2.00 :0e.85 - 09.e7   :F01PARFbice (int} I       
S 4.  ins.C.Srder           :Icdi    Un *....... USA          3.20 :.84 - 08.88 :.lbrWr v       tminttr S)
:7.       .D.Relmy          :Uiv.of nt1a *S6    :  l.4   :    1.0 **01.85 - 02.85 :Librarr Plaming:
: :. ::...8ir                  I.v. VU   I86                  .5W     .     W.W  :  
S .  Wb.L.Ariffin         .1nAd    ts" nv. USA      .       .... 6.00 :,04.85 - 09.85  '.:Librery 
S .  :MS_A.Sio       _       "l4*^^m  Untv ......US  :        2.00 :105.S6 - 04.86 SLlbrar
10.  :F.R.S m UIn            d  -a  Univ..  UmS      i      2.00 :11.8S - 02.88    Llbrmv (int er itt
11.   .JI.rSweS :oictgm  8tat 0Uiv.umw                     12.00 b01.85 - 12.85    Civil nginewring
12.  :Dr.B.Rao w           0iwv.of IUliv.Ws, UES     :      S.00 :02.85 - 08.87   :ectr.nginsering                :
13.  :aB.ca.uso            W:ndiv. of Uiv.o.5D. WA          1.50 :01.85 - 02.85  :Lniversm (lintmr.
*14.  W.L.Diel             "Untv. of lo . USA               0.75 :OS.85 -            IRfbtolo5                    :
15.  :W.D.&eIufeld         :Univ. of lowa.  US             12.00 :01.85 - 07.85    HlIPate Pmatics                :
:   DPtB.S.Sbepc  d       UDV".of Minnesota. vUS    :     9.O0 :.08.8e - 0a.87   :!tlP/CegozrbF
*. 'Dr.D H.Hilm             imindni state U6Ir       *    15.00 :01.86 - 08.87  '6RnPAA    a
18.  Ialk    iU           luln   nv.  9                    .00 j02.85 - 09.85   Ibu
1B      -D.B.U.B& lab   TUl.Of Toleid, USA4o   o.51.D                           81           V*
19.        S200 W0.85 - 04.88 _rer  t
'Dr                      5                          5 ta"  SAMWS   59



- 179 -
~1D
Poo 3
'2. ,lr.A.MoUfo,         Maly. of Winaln. UFA          35.00 :09.8 - 09.B7   :I
:     :*      s           :                        :          :               : 
'Hr.2.Falk:
:     :                   :                        :          : u:    :. 
21. :Ir.W.Veieteem       2Univ. of io,  u               6.00 :09.l5 ^ C8.B7   Hoch.s. (i)                 :
:22.  :Ihr.u.za          ,c. univ. bamCk. VA    :        .5o :1o.S          IUniv. A00.u ./81&.
23. lDr.L.Ib   I         ?v.tre  w  U *0iv.. t2         0.25 :Unl                    io./Llr.
24. #                    2U."-- Puniv.of Wiacin. USA   2  6.00 07.86 - 12.88       : MPW/mintrV
25. :Prof.J.Pomll        1Iom State URniv .. US         8 .00 :02.87 - 07.87  :MIMdUOm1ff t
: :Total                     :                            5.80... 1:
: T o t a lI                                        ......  185.80:  



I ~~~~~~ .II I.I.   
S  ~  S  ~     .- 0      .  .       .       5            
I  ItI   e      Lo I



- 181 -
Am  10
paw 5
23.  iDe.Tw,k           ,Univ.of Ut.waohtle Sat        3.50 106.86 - 07.67  :gasaiW (intim)
24. MDre.u _atinm        jStat ibd-.oS Uthrcht   1      2.75 :08.86 - OT.6   10eogaW (intem)
25. 'Dm.H  J&Idf         ,Univ of DOM.9  bt jw    1.00 j07.88
28.     ..    H          State Univ.of trt              1.SO :06.87 - 07.87  :Wga
27   kW.OIn               Uhiv.of 1_ota, U8E            6.00 :01.87 - 06.87   SiIn 
,28  '                     *.8.%   C                           -U  . of D-lft.   ' 9 O D OL 8 -,gp.dsy
,29.  DP.AL=wwa           MAU   of Seladia_:c            5ao0 108s  - 08.87  31mday 
:21  :ai. GI*hw          :Ghiv. of  IT.h          '      .00 :0.86 - 06.L8   'oG M
31. :De.Aj3 rjs          :Ibniv. of Af            :     5 3.00 :12.86 - 0e.87   :0v                       :
i32- :ar-.Bock   i C Obio St Ul IAI.....          .     ..USA  3.0 j90Dj4.87 - 07.87 i 
a  9          a                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.  a 
i33. ilDE.T.;D:-    i     alfio Sta  Univ ......  . US  .  2.20 o08.87 - 08.87 j 
,34. ,Dr.R.              :Cblo State Univ ....   .     ... W  2.20 S06.87 - e8.87 i
',35. inD-WicbaJiuli      Mhlaouom nv. Ta.,              2.00 ',02.87 - 04.87   ', oww
3;. z5 2r.8N lfe    '     Uaiv. of Moccasn  tlSA        3J.50 '12.85 - 03.88  :LdxmatAr Dwm               a
. 37. :D.P.Stefanovic     M. iofli.                     2 6.00 08.86 - 0e.8s  'G yra
.38. j.Dr.S.Ebma _kr    :swtbom Iiioi Uzdv.              2.00 :06.86 - e8.86j
39. iDr.J.       Unnv. of ht                USonesa     3.00 :1.o87 - 02.87   Geodshtbay tie    
i40  iDr*G.Mbtticbarm    iVniv of Uieconn. US             3.40 io8.87 - 0 J87   9tAiObastics
;. 4L  .Y.Lock           :0ouin    State   Univ .       6U00 '07.8Q  - 12.86   Geavw/        Sam
42. ,Dr.H..eserm         Ml. Not -                |     4.00 'OZ.87 - 07.87  ,.Goomrssiw ( )        iem
43. :bDE.R.toiber        IGes Sutb Uni .A USA           2.00 i02.87 - 03.67 i0aogra                       a
;  4 M gr._Verloop       ,Fr  %IV-ns  oi' Ast rdm   i    .0o ie4 a7 - e9-87  iPbumer c
,45.  ara.M.Doula         MAW. of Otta . Caod             8.00 ael.57 -                                     a8.6T  4Gbc /sphz ioi
48. :D.1.mncim           w8ion state Univ ..USA         2.20 :.os7 - 07.87 j_ owea   wR.Sdss-'
j  T To t  I                                         21:                   : 
:          -               a:



- 182 -
0                                                                           .-                                 10
P.    6
xnomvrx            (.intb)        VMD 
:  .   -  -  -    -                                        . 
:l.:*                                                                                                            a"   )tt  
:     :D.U.CIh31A                                     1    12.07         :                     :                   * B
:     :a                                              
:.  :.-larus             iUnivo. wio  uin                12.00 1t07.85 - 07.85  It_l   _ rl                   :
t  :          t                        ~      ~    ~       ~       ~         ~       ~      ~     ~~~~~~t tIs* 
: 2. Ml.u.O'll"             :Und. of   1 .="AM m8.00 sws.5 - u2r8i    :r 1w
It                      a,I
1~~~~~                                              S : a
: 3. i.i.                   :Madg.o State       13*         5.00 :10.65 - 12.86   M110    otlo     ()
2  2                     It                                   11
4,v. of Sasofla..UA*                                     14.00 101.64 - 102.6  t1fmai *      v
14   :..of                 :Ihvc  :icni.297  :018  -                                                            :88  NiwiA  itr
15. :r.2dit aIk            tIMyi. Of W1is    11sin . 2    14.00 611.84 - 2.85     :u.  :a
:6.   >h.Pj1m               :I  Stt 0.1......*.      1    12.0832.84 -28    21wemltI
1: 7. Dr.Rarb.Dma          :WVi. O  IWB :lls           1 2.00 :02.88 - 07.8a',mo : 
i17.  iDr.DJR.Ol      jck             _ UI                 18.00 ie03.85 -2 8BO  ',Haxd
7. irs.J. rle '           UzIv.of W1iacmnSW              14.00 107.86 - 02.85  Ib_IUhd st '.
is;.   -Dr..Jbo            iudT  ataeU .ii,U on    I       12.00 tO7.86 - 10.8.   illlSJUolZr           
a  a                                               a          a  I  0.a
.- 13. m'Dr.l ...... tDdried jW .   of A- U00                                                                    a
; 5.  1b.Lok.a             gUaw. of  _I~I.U          ,    18.00 107.65           1hBeD ta1bw
.   1h..tlDa.s D   lUnw. of Ulama 0N                1    1.00 ta2.80 - 07..67  tuin           t       t
t101. 'DrB.*abrl           :Ibl.obInStt Illr.,IIS*  :    12.00 107.65  08.8  hIIj           a                   a
t a9 '                                                S           a       9.0 ao.e 0"|tr 
: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -a -- 
:2    .hda                  hw  ofte  :au      tS   8.700                088     :hii
a                                                                                                           -.   :      
a      a                                               a                           a 



- 183 -
R                        iin                WA CORE=
2.hii~~~cm    MT                                      COIU  '  N16= 
-oben  wci offu m                       Como=
LUnI'u,gaieuittd  6 d
lhiunritj of Iauui
hiunity of Gdak f
gaivsity of A la
C:amtU



X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                         fl - f a m fi - |.
,l  I,,ii  a,  i,     i    !'   ~ii
1!                                       . 11.al Xl]3 i..... 



l ---------g------gra.  W-.
I    
l|  ~~~*
E   Ii                        I }}
-     --     --         --     --          --     --     -*-     --     ---     --     --- --   U'
jF i i  i
1     1 1  1      ---------                     ---------         



- 186 -
Annex .13
(Page l).
Definitions of Some Project Indicators
1..  Admission Rate  : Number of new students admitted as
a percentage of total applicants
2-   Repetition Rate : Number of repeaters in a department as a percentane
of total enrollment
3.   Orooout Rate    :Number of students who leave department during
or at the end of the school year as a percentage
of total enrollment in that year.
Numoer of students who leave   X 1O0
Tota7 Enrollment
4.   Net Flow rate
Promotion Rate - ( Reoetition rate anc drooout rate; 
Number oromoted x 100
Total enrollment
5    Probation Rate
Number of students on orobation X 100
Total enrollment
6;   Input/Output Ratio :
Total student years
Number of graduates X length of cycle
.7.   Average class size - Sum of all classes
Numoer of cMasses
8.   Staff / Student Ratio - Number of students
Number of staff



- 187 -
Annex 13
Page 2
Percewtug#oF students receiving financial aid
Number of students with financial aid X 100
Total number of students
10.    as above  for  FfViLOUS  vqar
II.     Percentage of staff in 1979 holdina M.A. and Ph.D. degrees
Number of staff holdina sucni deorees  X
Total number of staff
12.    same as  Cabove for current year
13.    Percentage of staff evaluated current year =
Number of staff evaluated X 100
Total number of staff
14.   as ia=W above, but for previous year
15.   Percentage of courses taught by full time staff
Number of courses tauoht-bv full time staff
Total number of courses taught
16.   as iUbA4 above, but for previous year
17     Percentage of courses taught by part time staff
Number of courses tauaht by oar. time staff X Moo
Total number of courses taught
18.    as iad6 above, but for previous year
19.    Current average staff teaching hours per week
Total teachinq hours of staff per week
Total number of staff
20.    as iU      above., but,for previous year
21.    Current average staff research and extension hours per week w
Total staff research and extension hours per week
Total number of staff
22.   as i%C   above, but for previous year



- 188 -
Annex 13
Page a
23_ . Current percentage of full time staff in management/administration s
Numtber of full time staff in manaaement/administration y 100
Total number of full time staff
24   as tu:Wabove . but for previous yea.
.5*: Percentage of basic courses taught by staff with advanced degrees
rJumber of basic courses tauaht by staff with M.A. and PhD. x lOO
Total number of basic courses offered
26C-. Percentage of final year courses taught by staff with advanced degrees
Number of final year courses taught bY staff with M.A. & PhD X 100
Total number of final year co,.rses offered
22..: Percentage of courses in which textbooks and reference materials
are assigned =
Number of courses in which textbooks and references assioned X 100
Total number of courses offered
28.-  Percentage of courses in which detailed outlines were prepared
Number of courses in which detailed outlines were oreoared X 100
Total number of courses offered
29   Percentage of courses in which detailed outlines were
reviewed before the course was given
Number of courses in which detailed outlines were revieied 1 1o00
Total- number of courses offered
3Q; . Percentage of courses in which a.zinidterm examination is required
Number of courses in which midterm is reauired X 100
TotaT number of courses
31.   Percentae utilization of lectur  halls w
Total hours of utilization of lerture halls per week X 900
(Nimber of lecture halls X 50 hurs per week)
32. Percentge utilization of laboratories -
Total hours of laboratory use per week X 100
(Number of laboratories X 50 hours per week)



-189-
Annex 13
Page 4
33.  'Percentage utilization of c'assrooms
Total hours of classroom use oer week                     x 100
(Number of classrooms X 50 hours utilizations per week)



- 190 -
UNIVERSITY OF INDONESIA    Annex 14
Schedule of facilities
floor.:
FACILITIES                 space
(m2)
:Fac of medicine                       41,850:
Fac of dentistry                      32,610
'Fac of science & math                 54,l50:
?Fac of engineering                    41,485:
?Fac of law                            20,700
Fac of economics                      17,280:
:Fac of letters                        191140
Fac of psychology                     99,320:
:Fac of social sciences                15,750:
:Fac of public health                   3,030:
-Central library                       14,930?
Computer center                         2,000:
Language laboratory                    2,000:
:Administration center                  6,200:
Theatre                                 1,800:
Auditorium                              5,500:
:Students  activities center            2,724:
:Students  health center                  565?
:Sport center (covered)                 3,950:
Canteen                                 3.240:
:Regilious services                     1,920:
:Criminology laboratory                 1,150:
:study center for the environment       2,140:
Study center for rural developmen      2,140:
UniverstIy publishing center             790:
:Maintenance building                   2,380:
Meneral class rooms                    19,668
Air conditioning
Sit- development
Landacaping
Roads and parking spaces
Sports
Dewatering
Tapwater distribution
water treatment plants
:Power (electrical)
Communication                     :
!Total                            :  1999802:
c*y nB/pr tty
c uyono/pretty



scHrnULE or cimNyrmlc5        lcrNlmnl 1llm                           Annex . i5 pege 1
totl1               For disbursement
ktind or lJork        D t             0t)te           n_-       .                      emerk
___.     P _     (Wp)  (US )
EQu IPmrNT
Books I               28.1I.H4                     1111                  641, 966 55
Books 11              2811.84                      IOlU                  173,883.29
Books III             21.11.4                       ltill                07,425.52
3ournals i            11.1U.1,5                    1l1o                   88, 066.21
Journals 11           11.10.87                    lUU                     95,97H.55
Journeis 111          11.111,1.5                   IUU                   113,494.80
Books IV              20. IU.H7                    ItJU                 U13,092.14
Books V               20.1U.87                     UU                     50,639.60
Books VI              28.10.87                    1IU                   128,133.2U
Books VII             2H.1 II.H7                   1 )fl                 333,502.25
Books VIII            20.1 (.RI                    lU                   1UU,676.35
Books Ix             27.100117                     IlUl                  126,523.47
Rlooks-l1niv.pressesl        86                   10UU   95,U00UU,UU      B4#070.60e
Books-Univ.presses2          H7                    IOU  24,UOUU,UOU      145,454155
Books-ttansistion 1         86                    IUU  172,9U0,UUU       152,920M35
gooke-trensistion 2         87                    IIUU  514,307,0U0      311,701,21
Printing Units ITR  UIq.UB.96                      luU                   210000U.00
Printing Units Unelr 31.12.71                     1IUU                    66,670&00
(  ollar Figures are NOt disbursement figures )



SCHEWULt 0r CONtrncTs                   :FNTRRAL PIU                    Annex  15 p6g8 2
lotal        _ror disbursement
kind or work           nte                         -                                   Remark
(np)(N)(5)-
rtLLUUS"IP/TRA INN-G
British council        18.08.1H2                    OUU                    592,491-
nUCIA                   19.05.83                    IUUI) 1a,O0   i 54
PUCIF                  19.05.83                     1U0   46U,963,t8UU      473t755-
Univ.Adm.to nustrefl  21.11.85                      OUU                      88,308
Univ.Adm.domestic I           us                    lU    66,80U,UU0        59,003
Univ.Adm.domestic 2           86                    100   309,6UU,UUU      273,982
Univ.Rdm.domestic 3           H7                    10U   183,#UU,UUU      10tO909
Editors,domestic  1           tl6                  100   125,52U,OU0       111,0UU
Editorsidomestic  2           87                  lU   146,4UU0,OU         88,727
EXPERTt SERVICES
Visiting ProFessor.  19.0)5.83                   IOU                  .6,500,0U0
mlNr4rEI`rwNT/SIJPERV
central PtII                                      100   153,400,0UU        92,970
Evaluation                                        1U0    26,600,Uo0        16,121
Central PlI                                       1t0U   48,UtUI,U00       29,091
Audit                 11.U7.86                    1U0    18,976,400        11601 
Budgating             09.07.87                    100      4,93U,OU0        2,988               0
MES 4 Nudit                                                                62,772
Tetal                                                        24t5190259,87
( Dollar figures are not disbursement figures



SCHEDULE OF CUNTRACTS               UNIL?Sh1Y OP. INDDONESIA             Antiex 15  pqqe3
T',~~BI         F~or disbursmestit
Kind or uotrk        Itse                                                             lfltmsirk
0II0!      11.       (np)         (lis$)
CtWIL~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~u qn)* 
CIVIL ynlRKq
glte lieveloilmalit               Il!tr"ltl    I   37U,353,fiUU    37Ut353.6U
computers               1ti.UII.fto                  1UU                     12,5UU.UU
computers               28    II1111.;              1IUU                    89t97U.UU
computers               1I. 1.i                    1IU0                    138,00UU0U
Computers 184. I3.137                              IOU                     206,00000W
Cdmputers               21.1?.P7                     IUU                    206UWU000                     s
Lab  :quipment          14.111.87                    IIU                    694*281&60
Lob rquipment           14. 111.07                   IOU                    6380700.00U
Lob rquipment          .14. 1.81                     IIJU                   730,100.UU
Ls  tnuipment           14. 111.87                   1U0                    7690833.40
Lob rqulummnlt          1I4. IJ1117                  IUU                    263,11U.25
Lab rquipment           14.10I.87                    1UU                     03,498.48
Lob Fquipment           14.I,"87                     IUU                     61,253.19
nrintinq supplies    3:1J.12.07                     IUU                     66,750U0b
Lab Iquipment           14.10.117                    OU'                   689,901.U0
SPECIALIST SFRVICES.
Conuultents                         4U1,834,UUU  1UU                     382,699405
Lamtek III          22.U7.84       168,U35,0U1I)                        164#74U*20
( Dollar figures are not disl ':sement figures



SCfIEIUL r ir to :i i i ln- 1 ;ii"r Itl;I I I 1' I           Nl#IlNOIINF.9 AAnnex 15 P8994
for tidlbtirssment
Kind of work               late              (lp)                                                       Remark
-1  '  --  ('up                                (Ri)               (US -)
ousilkom                   U1.116.f16        1 ill,95u 0,(lit)  II)U                          160,132
Pusilkom                   21 .119 . firt    11111, ral61illl  lilt)                         I St3978
rotal          |                                                                5.977,610.37
00
( Dollar figures are n6t disbursement figures )



SCI4EnULE inr 1:,it4t:F1is5        U01JVOIS1TY flI CiJn1 MA1A                Annnllx  15 Ps9 -s
.oIni                 ror dishursement
Kind or work        [late              (up)          _Rema(rk
(lP)                 (nP)            (US t
1:IV IL IJIIRK c
site development         14.IJ4f.1!    1,fi9.'i,3,II  IIU I,356,190,UIJU         825,8'77
Construction Adm         13.U4.117     I *5fil,369,(IIlJU  SU 1,254,695,200       764t126
constructlot Ilia        ?I.IIl4.lW?   I,4 5i, 5I, It111   8U 1,164,44401,1J      7U9.160
Construction rco         111.12.f"t    I,71hi,hJU,tJII    W0  1,411,21U,UUU       854t237
construction rec         1?.12.07      1,357,947,0III    80 1,UB6,357,61tU        657,601
FWIU IPME NT
Printing Unit            21.11.86                        l00                      196,000
r?lInf:slFj5N01. Sf nv1ifVs
PnIJ nrchitect          U1.1il.04                        1Uu                      517,678
of fIesercO              14.11.85        1611,035,01IJI    10U                    149,764
PT Yodys v,rvn           14. 1 1 .       lII,0178,i1111  1U0                      1699766
PT rerencanR ItJyt       1'e.1.135     2?'i,!70,1IlI1  1U00                      220,658
rIr ldscres utilqn c:oti 14.11.85        2:'Q,993, IIIJ  100I  .                  213#898
or rneons                14 .11 Q.5      754 ,132,       lOt tIUU                 226,499
nT "R1-. ntrclUltect     14.1105        247 908,IIIJI)  OUU                      220,952
VT Pereicans  lijuye   2110. I* 86        H2,8,ud0u1011  iUU                       SU07U4
PT liesigras            21.10.86          08,177,25h1  1U0                         53,997
CV Pharte                113.01.86         5,992,UU1  1UU                           5*321
CV Prqposi               11.01.86          2,3U,U0III  1UU                          1980 
PT 4isnu Plulti KCons  11.09.85            4,537,0U11I  1UU                         4,044
PT CendrukirarIs        21.U9.85           7,414,fI IIU   1UU                       6j609
PT P1W Architect        27.U6.87          64,666,0UUU  1UU                         39,192
( Dollar figures are not disbursement figures )



SCNIEDULE Or cuNrllni:tIr'         IJNIVERSItY  OV tjAJAH MADA               Atnex   I5  page  6
Kind. of work          I)ata                                  For  diRbursement
Kind of work           lJnte            (llp) ii           |    "P)              (US  )         remark
Pt nesuigres              (1 i.12.fJ7      2:It,Im,uu,LIIJ  ItIU                         13,op1
MANAGEMENt
Local DIU                                 'g',:3U6,UtII   1llU                         26,652
Totael                                                                  5,928,845
0(
(Dollar figures are not disbursement figures, 



SCIIEDULE OF CUNTROW7S           UNIWIVSITY lIP' PND0L-IS                  Annex  it    P"eg  7
tr disbursement
Kind of work          IlAte           r-.                                 R.emerks
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   (np)  (us   4)
CIVIL MJDRK4
~ qgte developmetit                         1,067,752,UUI)   2U       212,95U,0UO         212*126
i   s ite developmertt       22.U6.85    1,147l,4fl70t' ,U           228,485,4UU         204,553
;    hitnq road                7 .U7 .41it    1 , n(tl .,u 1   'il     7200=1(,U(ll1      644,584
Ite developmenit         1.13.1i6.1fi 6 9!5,(s1j ,UII3  fill   '164,76U,flUU        607,117
'later installetiOtn    22.01.117        113,cljtlJ,0ulJj   (it    670,320,001.l     410,987
'1   Construct.Rectorst    U9.01.H7   2,355,441,H79   Hl)  1,884#753,503                1,155,815-
8   construct.Block  IIlI   09. 1,1. Il7      61'7, 7U,l1.11   M1     493,816,U0IW        296,638
I.?  :onotrubbt.lock tV        19.U6.06       939,IIhiR,Ul.II lfill    751,254,4011      674,981
S   Construct.alock it    25.11 .117          4tf6,469,MUUI    fl11    397,175,211U       239,695
   I,geterdistribution       18.17.187      1 54,7320 ,10U   fill    123,785,6UUf        74,976
Electricel power          18.12.87       960,UUU, UIJIJ  811    774,4UU0,UU          469,049
PnurES;11INAl. Sr1V1l:rr
Consultant                               1112,46,OUI)  ItOllU                        182105
* esigras f n"1j1         22.17.84       561i,278,429  1 Ul)                         5170678
Cipte strode              12.12.85       129,1:5,04UU   0UU                          114g600
Cipte strode              26.U9.86        57,1179,,UjItl  I lt                        39j749
cakure  mnqgilitiqan      17.02.86        1173,46,51b   lll   .                       770608
Cekra Manggil tiqan       27.U5.H6         57,537,1UUU  IUl)                         33,366
tisigres                  18.U2.86       3A9,175,UUU   1t11U                        310,446
Dlesigres                28.U5.86        142,62,0UUU   I UU                          126,79U                I
Deserco                  02.U6.86         13,739,5UU   110U                            45,156
PRU Architect                                                                        169*808



. CHENUL t    CON7INTPC-rS             iNIVERSITle UF ANDALA9S                Anrtd  15   ages
rnr disbursement
Kind or work           note            111E)         -           dns)        (Iu S k )      ltemark.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ .)(     1 5 *        _ _ _
Cekre msnqgilltnlqr      U3J.12.tIf        I  t 269 1IJ1i   IOU                    43,696
anmr  (UK) PQniYoqyn   75.tJH. fir,                      Iti)U                      42rU(2
nmIj  (UK) I'dqlYoqyn    ?9. 17.lif,                     IUU                        319441
nesiarms                  17. U1.I      , 691111 1,56fi   IIJlt                     57,296
Deserca                   14. 17.11?      :11?:3S9itolw   lfiti                     22,555
cskre iMnqgilllqelq       15.06.117       72,7h2,621100  1UU                        13,492
Cekre  lenqqlillqnui      14.09. W?       12 ,: 316, 1)M .   lIOU                  75,569
Desigres                  I4.IlJq.II?    S44,773,l!i2  IOU                         329,966
nmim (IK) rdq+Yogyn    12.09.1,1                        lIOU                        44,969
rinenco                   25.l.I17         602UJ,UU0J. IUU                          3,764
Ripstrede                 UJ6.12.87        I8,JUUUUUl   1VU                          MM902 
llesiqies                 22.17.11't     113,160U,1I.ll   IUU                       68,54U
Cekre Mngqqqltnqen        27.17.87        24,991,250   1UU                .15137
Oesilras                  tl,.Uq.86         325,ZU,UI111  1UU                       14,238
Ussigres                  tfl.U2.86       29,649,tJhU).  iUU                        26,308
MANICEMENT
Local 1Ulil                               3S,79-U,,Uuq1  1 iu                       21#6911
loatl                                                            7,8166083
( dollar figures are not disbursement figures )



- 199 -
STAFF: NUM8ERPOUALIFICATION AND WORK-LOAD            Annex 16
UI           .  UGM           UNANO
1978'1986 1987 1978 1986 1987 1978 1986 1987
1   ENGINEERING
1.1 Full-time              -  191   NA   88  216  226    -    -   33
1.2 Part-time              -  265   NA    -  164  143    -    -   16
1.3 Sarjana S3             -    7   NA    -    6   13    _    _    _
1.4 Sarjana S2             -   29   NA    -   43   20    _    _    _
1.5 Sarjana 51             _   79   NA    -. 132  108    _    _    _
1.6 Teaching ch/wk         -  4.7   NA    - 10.7  8.9             -  3.8
1.7 Research ch/wk         -  3.1   NA    _  4.4  6.0    -    -  1.5
1.8 Administ  <.           - 23.5   NA               4.1    -    -32.0
2   SCIENCE/MATH
2.1 Full-time              -  168   NA   38   88   95    -  115  126
2.2 Part-time              -  123   NA    -  *44   45    -   57    8
2.3 Sariana 53             -   20   NA      -   12   14    -    5    I
2.4 Sariana 52             -   23   NP    -   24   22    -   33   25
2.5 Sarjana 5             -  101   NA    -   48   66    -   78   -2
2.6 Teaching ch/wK         -  2.3  7.6    -  9.8  8.3    -  6.3  8.2
2.7 Researcn cn/wK         -  5.5  4.8    -  5.9  6.9    -  4.4  3.5
2.8 Administ  1            - 11.9 10.9      - 11.8 10.1      - 16.6 19.2
3   ECONOMICS
a,1 r,n1-time              -  205  219   33   96   99    _   92   07
3.2 Part-time              -   52   60    -   19   20    -   42   A1
3.3 Sarjana  53            -   10   12    -   20   14    -    2    1
3.4 Sariana  S2            -   29   27    -   28   17    -   12    9
3.5 Sarjana  S1            -   28   18      -   49   35    -   70   63
3.6 Teaching ch/wk         -  5.3  4.6    - 10.6 11.6    - 11.2  i.1
3.7 Research ch/wk         -  4.7  6.2      -  4.0  9.6    -  3.6  3.5
3.8 Administ  %            -  6.6  9.0      -  9.8 10.6    - 10.2 14.9
4   AGRICULTURE
4.1 Full-time              -    -    --   -    -    -    -  120  130
4.2 Part-time              -    -    -    -    -    -    -   27   18
4.3 Sarjana  53            _-    -                           -    5    7
4.4 Sarjana  52            -    -    -    -    -    -    -   16   17
4.5 Sariana  S1            -    -                            -   43   54
4.6 Teaching ch/wk              -    -    -    -    -    -  8.1  6.4
4.? Research ch/wk         -    -    -    -    -    -    -  6.0  5.7
4.8 Administ  %            -    -    -    -    -    -    - 15.1 19.2
5   ANIMAL HUSBANDRy
5.1 Full-time              -    -    -    -    -    -    -   95  106
5.2 Part-time              -    -    -    -    -    -    -   13   14
5.3 Sarjana  53            -    -    -    -    -                  3    5
S.4 SarJana  52            -    -    -    -    -    -    -   16   13
5.5 Sarjana  si            -    -    -    _    _    _    -   68   81
5.6 Teaching ch/wk         -    -    -    -    -    -    -  4.1  5.1
5.7 Research ch/uk         -    -    -    -    _    -    -  3.2  6.8
5.8 Administ  (            -    _    _    -    _    _    - 15.1 11.6



- 200 -
STAFF: NUMBFeq.QUALIFICA71N ZNO uORK-&.0AD    Annex 16
page X
UI               UGM             Unand
1978 1986 1987 1978 1986 1987 1978 1986 1987
1   BIOLOGX-
1.1 full-time              -    -    -   26   SS   56    -    -    -
1.2 Part-time              -    -    -    -   57   53    -    -
1.3 sarjana S3             -    -    -    -    7    6    -    -
1.4 Sarjanas 2             -    -            -   13   16    -    -    -
1.S Sarjana Sl             -    -    -       -   33   25    -    -    -
1.6 Teaching ch/uk         -    -    -       - 16.3 14.0    -    -    -
1.7 Research ch/uk         -    -    -          9.6  6.9    -    -    -
1.8 Administ  %            -    -    -    -  7.6 12.9    -    -    -
2   GEOGRAPHY
2.1 Full-time              -    -    -   54   70   69    -    -    -
2.2 Part-time              -    -    -       -   52   33    -    -    -
2.3 Sarjana S3             -    -    -       -    3    c      -    -    -
2.4 Sarjana 52             -    -    -       -   17   26    -    -    -
2.5 Sarjana 51             -    -    -       -   26   26    -    -    -
2.6 Teaching ch/uk               -    -      -  7.4  6.9    -    -    -
2.7 9esearch cn/uk         -    -    -       - 11.5 11.0    -    -    -
2.8 Administ  , t                            -  7*7 10.       -    -    -
3   OHAR-ACV
3.1 Full-time              -    -    -   55   72   73    -    -    -
3.2 Oart-time              -    -    -       -   32   31      -    -    -
3.3 Sarjanz -3             _    _    _       _   ,2   e:
3.& Sariana S2             -    -    -       -   2-   29    -    -    -
3.5 Sarjana SI             -    -    -       -   33   2       _
3.6 Teaching ch/uk          -    -    -      -  6.7  _.3    -    -    -
3.7 Research ch/uk         -    -    -    -  9g1  7.5    -    .
3.8 Admini2t  %            -    -    -       - 10.& 11.6          -       -
Note: ch/wk = credit hours per ueek
%  = percentage of total credit hours



- 201 -
NUMBER Of LIBRARY BOOKS                         4nngx 17
U 9             UGM       I      Unand
1986    1987    1986    1987    1986    1987
EngineOring    1588      NRA;  20808  |25363  i              _
addition     1488       NA    4555    1038         _
Science/Math  12508   12663   13619   16568        518     518
addition       105     155    2949    3033         a       a
Economics     45496   48389   16015   17404   10602   10739
addition      2893 j 1005    1389    1883        137     890
Agriculture        - i     -        -        -    9521   10332
addition         - j          _                  811     z6G
Animal Husb        _                               966    1170
addition                                         204     21'
Biology            -       -    7217    787?         -        _
addition         -       - _56          199        _        _
Geograohy                         456     1s2        _        _
*4   addition          - .            656_      0        _
Pharmacy           _       _    9916   '5640         _ 
addition         _       -    7724      583        -
Total          59592   64078  63100    79449   21607  22759
addition      4486 ,  1160  163A9       6736   1152    1365



- 202 -
Annex 18
INWt3NESIA uWJ1.EPS;             i OE E!An?E'd l"TCmiA
POLICY MEASURES *0 PERFORUUIEA INOtCAtOlS 1987f1980
U ft I v I R S I I Y
H E A S U R E 5
-        - 1 :  T    - N t- ANDA   itl uI r 1    AlNIi- -IJUAA-  IiASANNtiU  LKTII,
INIA       SI                    UJAVA    mPUlA       NA       UIN   I   Scaaranq
REStURCES AVAILABLE
STILENT AND STAUF fMtESUllfS
- Enrollmuit                              20403      14307       am98       8225      7566      7416       03t5      9475
- SLudent finmiiotA aid              I        3.Di       5.25        1.54      3.50      1.07       1.32      3.31      2.17
- Ntmber of full tim  atarf               lFll        2156        033        966       420        706       622       568
- Studtnt /staft rtio                        15.68       6.67       10.20      8.51     17.60      10.50     13.44     14.66
- NU      at or part tim  staff            1645       1014        203        347       135        583       334.      132
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
- Lrctut halls /student         (awqr a)      0.05       0.26       0.06       0.16      O.,S       -         -         n.0q
-LDbarstarias /student          (ear )        1.64       4.02       0.26       0. 70     0.32 l                         0.30
Clsascroam /student            nar a)       0.91       7.42       0.26       1.01      0.60       -                   U 0 36
- 'ecturer attica /lccturwr     !aar a)       5.64       1.06        1.71      2.U3      4.28       -         _         O.W
-Adrin. stafr artice /staff    (aqr a)        7.12       _-                         -              -          -
LIDRNlY FACILItIES
-Nbear of boeks                          354611     205101     104264      U1122e    4f874     96525       1552     6U673
-Aver- nmrber of ctpies /book                 2.22       3.10       2.58       2.26      3.99      3.63       1.38      1.71
Yur ot  books /student                     12.48      19.02      21.29      1U.73      6.35      13.02     0.19       6.40
----      -     -                                                --                 --      I
RE;URWS UtULZATIO
ACAD. STAFF UTILtZATrON
-Average staff te-ching hours /week           8.91       0.14       5S35       4.41      6.36       6.il4     9.31     12.38
-Avera  staff research  nd uexton
tion hours /wek                            l0.75       7.19        5.10      4.09      5.43      11.35      6.26      *.74
-Full ti  stafrf hour  in mano-
qgnt  n  sdinistratron             S       10.08      15.1(t      13.93     13.:7     12.2Y      10.14     12.43     11.71
ACAD. FACILITIES UTILIZAIaN
-Labarotorise  utilization     *     S       39.01      30.77        9.54     60.06     46.00 t    23.07      -        71.10
-Clasrsso   utiIization        *     Z       50.31      52.90       35.28    107.49     51.00      28.29      -        84.511
-Lecture halls utilization    *       :      67.74      60.50       81.a0    146.00     43.57      30.00              136.00
-Avernap ncls asize                          57         19          90        za         57        65         -        21
Li8iWRY UiILIZATION                                                                                              i
-Library open hours /wek                     42.54      58.t3       39.24     O.O       36.70     49.39     Z6.34 1  29.7
-naoks checked aut /atsnklt /seactor          6.20t     17.99       15.22      5.f       6.15     15.35      2.27      a.C.6
-Nduber at renduar /atudont /eamater          9.76      26.20       33.97     13.J6       6.35     20.46     10.93     12.15
-Number of bcoke
reed /student /2rnnter                     12.23      19.93       20.87     11.34      2.93       0.05      0.00      3.23
QUALITY Of EDUCATION
ACAWMIC STAFF MIALITY & STRENGTH
-Starr holdng ed          degtee4S 64.79                67.50        25.66    23.65       9.02     19.14     40.26      6.23
-  asic courses     ht by  teafr
with advanced daqd                  5      42.26      47.40       67.12      30.77    10DU00    47.26     55.33   1i01.W
- Final year courses tought by
steff with  d    a  d    e                 73.89       72.19      44.30     33.09    100.0t    30.84    03.90    100.00
-Courses tafght  ytlltis  staff  5           74.74   - 97.72        74.04     52.20      83.70     71.91    74.73      84.36
ACAOEIC PIUI Q ITY
- Tax, books cr  rermnee mata-
riots assigrd                      Z       80.55      96.63      1W.U       75.15      49.81     94.72   100.l1      95. 94
- Coura outulns prepre                S      85.26      96.43        0.00     75.31      97.22     94.72   100.00    100.00
Detailed clan pluming pepared   Z          28.55      95.54       44.82      19.27      0.06     62.80    100.00      9.3X
-tidtseu  xstmU, roequired            s      906.40      6.67       62.50      71.43     16.67    10t.00     87.U      66.67
-Staff valuwted                       5      26.27       29.-0      84.27     29.93      81.71     32.66     53.7      31.57
SfM1NT INWUT A WM.ITY
- NHu4er af 'us tedents admitted    4 622              2724       1546       1680      1549      1013      2099      2700
-Studuxl ntadaim    rate                      5.71        4.22       6.13        .96     23.19      9.36      6.3e       6.12
EFFICIECY & 6PRMOc.IVIT.
- I&ar ot qrsiaLes                       2724        2053        826       )402       50tI      432      1146       1960
Wigut /0utput raltl                         1.70        1.33       1.87      1.20       3.69      2.41      1.83      1.38
ReptiUtn rate                               1.23        1.17       1.14       _-                            - _
rOhp out rate                               0.63        1.15       0.44       0.50      1.53      0.49      0.93       0.38
*   tnaw rate                               9.59       14.27       9.72      17.85      6.62      6.32     13.37      1.69
Probation rote                              1.23        5.08       4.42       3.51      0.49      0.67      1.59      0.51
_Averag  yea    at _ady                     6.00        6.10       5.57       4.55      6.33      5.62      S.60       6.58
note,     no dots                                                                                       tdIzo2b/hdf/
baais s 50 hmuu3 per week utilization.
I  dntn tnr fs.ma .-mloite.



