Document of                     FILE Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2873-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 27, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of |
their official duties. Its centents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00            =  Rp 625
Rp 100             =  US$0.160
Rp 1 million (M)  -  US$1,600
GLOSSARY
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
DGHE      -  Directorate General of Higher Education
Project   -  Andalas, Gadjah Mada and Indonesia
Universities
UNAND     -  University of Andalas
UGM       -  University of Gadjah Mada
UI        -  University of Indonesia
USAID     -  Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            $45 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 9.25% p.a.
Project
Description:    The project would be the first phase of a long-term univer-
sity development program. Its main objectives are to:
increase the output of high-level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including
business administration and accountancy), improve the
quality of university education in these four fields, and
strengthen the management of the overall university system.
The project would accomplish these objectives by: (a) intro-
ducing policies to improve efficiency and quality; (b) pre-
paring for civil works by providing initial site develop-
ment and building design in order to expand enrollment in
the four selected fields at the Universities of Indonesia,
Gadjah Mada and Andalas; (c) improving academic and
professional qualifications of teaching staff; (d) increas-
ing the relevance and quantity of instructional materials;
(e) rationalizing university administrative organization
and staffing; (f) developing monitoring, evaluation and
management information systems; (g) introducing a univer-
sity management training program; and (h) establishing a
University Development Office in the Directorate General of
Higher Education (DGHE).
The principal risk associated with the project is the
potential difficulty in coordinating implementation of
various components of the project. Universities are
generally autonomous entities and systemwide university
development will require decisions by many authorities.
In order to reduce this major risk, considerable attention
has been directed towards strengthening DGHE. In addition,
it has been proposed that the Government's university
developnent program would be assisted in two phases. The
phased approach would make it easier to modify the program
scope, costs and time required for program completion in
view of possible changed circumstances at the end of the
first phase.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs                                     Local      Foreign      Total
---------$ million---------
Investments Focusing on Increasing Output
Policy development                                0.1         0.1        0.2
Preparation for increased enrollment             12.3         8.9       21.2
Investments Focusing on Improving Quality
Staff development                                 0.6       16.0        16.6
Instructional materials development               1.4         4.1        5.5
Investments Focusing on Strengthening Management
Monitoring and evaluation                         0.1         0.4         0.5
Managenent information                            0.1         0.8         0.9
University development office                     -           1.5         1.5
Management training                               -           0.6         0.6
Organization and staffing                         0.1         0.4        0.5
Total Base Costs                            14.7       32.8        47.5
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                                    1.5        3.2         4.7
Price (25%)                                       4.0         9.0       13.0
Project Costs                               20.2       45.0        65.2
Less customs duties and taxes                     2.0         -          2.0
Net Project Costs                             18.2        -          63.2
Financing Plan:                                     Local      Foreign      Total
-$ million---------
Bank                                        -         45.0        45.0
Government                                 20.2        -          20.2
Total                                                        65.2
Estimated              Bank FY        1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987
Disbursements:
Annual          0.0   1.5   3.5   8.0  11.0  15.0   6.0
Cumulative       0.0   1.5   5.0  13.0  24.0  39.0  45.0
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3000a-IND, dated August 4, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $45 million to help
finance a University Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, with interest at 9.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An
updating country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and
Short-Run Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980) was
distributed to the Executive Directors earlier this year.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago nation of more than
13,000 islands covering a land area in excess of two million sq km. With
over 135 million people, it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The
population density exceeds 650 persons per sq km In Java, where 65% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country. Over 82% of the population live in rural areas; and although
agriculture only accounts for slightly over 30% of GDP, about 62% of total
employment is still found in the agricultural sector. GNP per capita is
estimated at about $360./2
4.        Over the last 13 years, Indonesia's economic, social and institu-
tional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated, poor
countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertibility of the currency and regained the
confidence of western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Pelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74), a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% p.a. was achieved. During
Repelita II, (1974/75 to 1978/79) economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Coconut Development Project (No. P-2864-IND), circulated under cover of
R80-215, dated July 23, 1980, and approved by the Executive Directors on
August 5, 1980.
/2 1978 figures. World Bank Atlas, 1979.



- 2 -
increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows. Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to
$4.0 billion Lt in 1978, which enabled real Government expenditure to increase
by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP growth rate. Not all
sectors have shared in this growth. In particular, the performance of
nonextractive exports, with some exceptions, such as coffee and palm oil, has
been disappointing; rubber exports, for example, have stagnated since 1971,
and manufactured exports are only now giving any indication of sustained
growth. In addition, there has been little evidence, despite increased
foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil future of the economy has been
assured through a broad-based expansion of the industrial sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the economy
- an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been impressive, views
diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in this increased income.
The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976 indicate that while overall
income disparities almost certainly widened between those two dates, there was
nevertheless a considerable improvement in the consumption of all income
groups, with real consumption expenditure of the bottom 40% of the population
probably increasing at between 3.5% and 5.5% annually. Growth in per capita
income was generally higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in
urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of 2%).
However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level of
open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employment
during this period was absorbed in nonagricultural activities, resulting in a
decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to 62%. Within the
nonagricultural sector, employment increases largely resulted from proliferat-
ing small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors, where
productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        Government-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit
for many of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the BIMAS
and INMAS rice intensification schemes and the Government public works
(INPRES) programs have demonstrated the Government's capacity to marshal
resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72 and 1976/77 real
expenditures increased at an annual average rate of 37% on Health and Family
Planning, 45% on Education, and 31% on Housing and Water Supply, resulting in
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
/2 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster, at about 9.5% p.a., due to
improvements in the terms of trade.



the rapid development of social infrastructure. For example, Indonesia's
health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were increased to 4,029 by 1977;
between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were constructed and primary
school enrollment reached about 85% in 1979, up from 60% in 1974. Perhaps the
most significant achievement of the First and Second Development Plans has
been the success of the National Family Planning Program, established in 1970,
in reducing the overall population growth rate to below 2%. Fertility rates
have fallen by almost 20% on Java and Bali, where almost 30% of married women
in the reproductive age group are practicing modern methods of contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty pro-
blem, the lack of food security, and the inadequacy of basic public services
remain overwhelming. In 1976, an estimated 50 million people, over one third
of Indonesia's total population, spent less than $90 a year (at 1976 prices
and exchange rate) and a large proportion of the labor force was seriously
underemployed in both rural and urban areas. Moreover, the continued pre-
valence of numerous debilitating diseases, which often stem directly from
nutritional deficiencies and unsanitary living conditions, results in
extremely low life expectancy at birth and a very high mortality rate.
Life expectancy at birth in Indonesia is only 48 years (most recent estimate)
compared with 60 years in the Philippines and 67 years in Malaysia. For the
same countries, infant mortality rates are respectively 126, 65 and 35 per
thousand. Every year in Indonesia approximately 600,000 infants less than
one year old die. These statistics reflect both low incomes and the under-
lying inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100 million Indonesians
remain without access to safe water or sanitary excreta disposal; there are
only 6 physicians and 6 nurses per 100,000 of the population; and almost 40%
of the adult population are illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. The Government has recognized
this in preparing the Third Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to
1983/84). Three primary goals have been specified: a more equitable
distribution of the benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and national
stability. A high priority must now be given to the industrial sector
since neither agriculture nor services can be expected to absorb the
large projected increases in the labor force (1.4 million p.a. up to the
year 2000) and simultaneously ensure rising real wage rates.
10.       The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by a number of Government policy decisions.
The most dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp
625 per US dollar on November 15, 1978.  Its purpose was to reverse some of
the adverse relative price changes in the economy that had occurred earlier in
the decade and thus to encourage a shift of resources away from the nontraded



-4-
goods sector towards labor-intensive import substitution and export indus-
tries. In support of the aims of Repelita III and the devaluation, the
Government has also simplified the investment licensing process and exporting
procedures ard introduced a system of export certificates - tax rebates - to
encourage exporters. A new corporation tax law was promulgated in March 1979
providing greater incentives to entrepreneurs, particularly those in
smaller-scale ventures and those using the services of a public accountant.
On the monetary side a start has been made in making the commercial banking
system more responsive to the needs of small-scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private investment
will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation. Despite
the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private entrepre-
neurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those sectors most
conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular there are two
issues that require urgent attention. First, although some improvements have
been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumbersome administrative
procedures and controls associated with the highly centralized government
bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective protection, which has
increased over the last year, may encourage the misallocation of scarce
capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's potential for manufactured
exports is considerable but it is unlikely that these exports will ever
provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed by other smaller East
Asian countries. In the medium term it is more likely that Indonesia's
tengine of growth" will be its own large domestic market.  However, it is
important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to provide appropriate
market signals and to encourage those sectors in which a genuine comparative
advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is probably less significant
than the high administrative costs and delays associated with importing. The
important improvements made in exporting procedures over the last year have
demonstrated that rapid changes can be made in this area. Similar advances on
the import side would improve resource allocation by reducing the prolifera-
tion of domestic industries that have little prospect of ever attaining
international competitiveness. In many countries devaluation has been
accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff structure. Although this has
not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent increases in oil revenues have, by
substantially increasing foreign exchange reserves, provided an additional
opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       M4edium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget have improved fundamentally in recent months. Three factors -
the devaluation, an improvement in the nonoil terms of trade, and the oil
price rise - have been responsible.  The effect of the devaluation on the
external accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of signi-
ficant supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance
of payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to
the devaluation than to favorable developments in the world prices of



- 5 -
primary commodities./l As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus of
over $700 million in 1978/79. Most important, however, has been the increase
in the export price of crude oil to $32 a barrel in January 1980. This is
expected to generate additional oil and LNG export earnings of $3.1 billion in
1979/80. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these developments. Since
over half of the Government's revenues were denominated in foreign exchange,
an immediate effect of the devaluation was to dramatically increase budgetary
revenues in terms of rupiah. As a result of the oil price increases, budget
revenues from oil and LNG are predicted to rise from $3.7 billion in 1978/79
to $8.9 billion in 1979/80.
13.        These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private industrial
enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price and monetary
stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example, in the mea-
sures taken by the Government to ameliorate the inflationary effects of the
devaluation, which, while successful in keeping prices under control, some-
times tended to counteract the desired effects of the devaluation. Notable
here was the tight control exerted over private sector credit creation which
may have limited investment in those export sectors that the devaluation was
designed to encourage. In addition, the increased foreign exchange revenue
presents potentially difficult problems of monetary management. The manner in
which Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb imports effectively will be a
primary determinant of Indonesia's future growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.        In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to the increase in export revenues and
the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's debt-
service ratio fell from 18% to 16%)./2 In the medium and long run, however,
the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how quickly Indonesia
will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and because projections
of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It is therefore
important that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic financial
resources. The Government's concern with this issue is demonstrated by its
stated intention of eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To this
end, domestic prices of all oil products were increased by an average of about
40% in April and May 1979, although the budget savings have since been
nullified by increases in international prices. There is considerable scope
for improving the nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of total
revenues. For example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to only
3% of GNP, and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP. Expanding the tax base,
eliminating loopholes, and improving administration, are the obvious means of
/1 The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and
July 1979.
/2 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
eliminating loopholes, and improving administration, are the obvious means of
securing a larger and more equitable tax burden. The mobilization of private
sector financial resources is hindered at present by the absence of attractive
long-term financial instruments, but the Government's encouragement of the
fledgling Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important source
of domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the prin-
cipal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA), to the country. The Bank's 1979 basic economic report on Indonesia
recommended that total ODA reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979, of which at
least 70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. This
recommendation was achieved. The Bank's recent economic memorandum on
Indonesia (dated February 20, 1980) recommended a level of assistance of
$2.1 billion for 1980, which would represent no increase in real terms over
the recommended and actual amount of ODA for 1979. At the meeting of the
IGGI in May 1980, the indication of probable commitments in 1980 made by
bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to almost this level.
16.       In the past selective local cost financing of projects has been
recommended since it was estimated that financing only the foreign exchange
cost of projects would not suffice to meet Indonesia's long-term capital
requirements. Since Indonesia's foreign exchange position has now improved,
local cost financing will, in the future, be limited to projects of key
importance and where such financing is required to ensure a significant Bank
contribution.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
17.       As of May 31, 1980, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits totalling
$931.8 million, and 48 Bank loans amounting to $2,768.0 million. IFC invest-
ments totalled $67.4 million. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1978 was about 8.3%,
and the share of debt service about 3.0%. By the end of 1979, these ratios
are estimated to have increased to around 9.5% and 4.8%, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as
of May 31, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       During Pelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the
rehabilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities,
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Coconut Development Project (No. P-2864-IND), circulated under cover of
R80-215, dated July 23, 1980, and approved by the Executive Directors on
August 5, 1980.



-7-
meeting the critical shortage of skilled manpower, and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. As the focus of the
Government's policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of productive
capacity in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as well as
improvement in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust
of our lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the critical
importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food
security and exports, over one third of Bank Group-supported projects have
been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to
virtually all other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer production
and distribution, transportation, education, urban development, water supply,
rural development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small industry development), power, telecommunications, population and
technical assistance.
19.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementing its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document,
while stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs
from previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and
poverty alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the
conclusions of the Basic Economic Report, in turn requires greater attention
to employment generation and improvements in basic public services. While
the Government's agricultural programs are expected to generate significant
employment opportunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment
problem is primarily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a
coherent labor-intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort
the Bank plans to significantly expand its hitherto modest involvement in
this sector. As part of this initiative, an operation designed to support
several industrial DFCs through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank
Indonesia) is at an advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support
export processing zones and wood processing, and to further expand Bank
assistance to small-scale enterprises are at various stages of identification
and preparation. A comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial
sector is underway to provide the necessary understandings and backup for
this expanded operation.
20.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank lending are
expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation will continue
to absorb a substantial portion of Bank agricultural lending; however, the
Bank also plans to take further initiatives to promote secondary food crops.
Continued support for the provision of basic services (population, education,
health, nutrition, urban development and water supply) as well as the tradi-
tional sectors (power and transport) is also anticipated.  Since it is clear
that the achievement of the Government's employment and equity objectives will
become increasingly dependent on the development of appropriate sectoral
policy packages and strategies, institutions, and staff development, it is
expected that the focus of the above operations will gradually broaden to a
subsector and sector approach. The proposed sectoral approach is designed to
enable Bank assistance to be responsive to these demands, and to continue its
institution-building efforts in a broader context than has been done hitherto.



- 8 -
21.       Both the Bank and the Government have become increasingly concerned
about the level of disbursements, which has shown a declining trend in the
past three years. Many of the problems appear to be related to the Govern-
ment's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, including
issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit. These problems
are further compounded by the severe shortages of both managerial and tech-
nical manpower and by the poor performance of the construction industry. A
number of steps have been taken by the Government and the Bank to address
these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze
the problems and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial
procedures. The Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and
regular joint review procedures to identify general and project specific
problems and work out corrective measures. The first of these reviews was
held in June 1979, and a second, more comprehensive one, will be held in
September 1980. In addition, a procurement seminar (planned to be the first
of a series) was held in Jakarta in September 1979. As a consequence of these
joint initiatives, over the past few months the Government announced several
measures to streamline the more complex budgetary and financial procedures
affecting project implementation. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
approval at a later stage in the project cycle. While it is still too early
to assess the effect of these steps on project implementation, the indications
are that improvements are now taking place. This was reflected in an increase
in disbursements from $208.2 million in FY79 to $300.4 million in FY80.
22.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group-s subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP ($360 in 1978) was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of
payments position, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
23.       The proposed project, which is consistent with the strategy dis-
cussed above, constitues the second lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. The Smallholder Coconut Development
Project has been previously approved this fiscal year and projects under
advanced stage of preparation include the swamp reclamation, fourth urban,
Bukit Asam mining, fifth nucleus estates and smallholders, and second seeds
projects.
PART III - UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
The Role of University Education in Development
24.       The rapid growth in Indonesia-s economy in recent years has not
been accompanied by commensurate development in human resources, particularly
individuals with university qualifications. Less than 1% of Indonesia-s labor
force have attained higher education and the resulting acute shortage of



- 9 -
high-level manpower has become a constraint to achievement of the country's
development goals. Projections of high-level manpower needs indicate that
Indonesia will require an annual average increment of about 5,500 engineers,
1,900 scientists, 2,200 agriculturalists, 900 accountants and 1,300
economists over the next decade. The present output of the university system
meets only about one-fourth of these needs in engineering, science,
accountancy and economics and about two-thirds of the needs in agriculture.
This imbalance underlies the necessity of increasing university output in
these fields in order to meet manpower needs.
The University Education System
25.       Structure and Dimensions.  Within the Ministry of Education and
Culture, the Directorate General of Higher Education (DG&E) oversees the
development of higher education. It has direct control over the 41 public
higher education institutions and through its coordinator for private higher
level institutions monitors over 350 private institutions.  There are four
main types of higher education institutions in Indonesia: (a) universities
with several semi-autonomous faculties; (b) institutes with a number of
faculties in a single professional field; (c) teacher training colleges; and
(d) academies with a single faculty. The universities, institutes and teacher
training colleges award an intermediate degree (Sarjana Muda) and a principal
degree (Sarjana) upon completion of a three-year and five-year program,
respectively. The academies and, on a limited basis, the universities, award
diplomas/certificates upon completion of courses of two to three years
duration. Excluding teacher training colleges and academies, in 1978, there
were 150,000 students enrolled in the 30 public universities/ institutes and
100,000 students in the 70 private universities/institutes. In the public
institutions, 24,500 students were enrolled in faculties of engineering, 7,400
in science, 20,100 in agriculture and 23,500 in economics, including business
administration and accountancy. The Sarjana graduates from these faculties in
1978 totalled 1,400 in engineering, 500 in science, 1,300 in agriculture and
1,000 in economics. The private institutions produced about 300 Sarjana
graduates in 1978, comprising only 7% of the total output in these fields.
26.       Issues.  Indonesia's university system suffers from the inter-
related problems of insufficient output, poor quality of education and inade-
quate management. The insufficient output is manifested by low internal
productivity (defined as the ratio of degree output to total enrollment) of
the university system; this averages only about 5% in Indonesia while in a
perfectly efficient five-year program of study, internal productivity is 20%
when intake is constant, 18% when intake is increased by 5% p.a. and 16% when
intake is increased by 10% p.a. This low productivity is attributed to high
rates of failure (in some instances about 50% of first year students fail in
final examinations), dropout (about 80% of a cohort), and the 7 to 10 years it
often takes students to graduate. The major underlying causes include:
(a) insufficient time devoted by full-time staff to teaching; (b) inadequacy,
and poor planning and scheduling of physical facilities; (c) inappropriate
promotion and graduation policies; and (d) the high cost of education
relative to the socioeconomic status of students.



- 10 -
27.       Low internal productivity is closely linked to existing weaknesses
in the quality of university inputs: the low academic and professional
qualifications of staff, the inadequate quantity and relevance of textbooks
and other instructional materials, and poor teaching methods. Both the
problems of low productivity and poor quality are intensified by weak
management capacity at both central DGHE and local university level. The
effectiveness of the DGHE is constrained by the absence of a permanent cadre
of professional staff to provide needed continuity and expertise, and the lack
of management information and monitoring/evaluation systems to provide the
data and information needed for the planning and management of the university
education system. In addition to having these problems, management at
university level suffers from an excessive degree of autonomy among faculties
and subject departments. This autonomy has led to duplication of adminis-
trative services, inconsistencies in academic and administrative standards,
and inefficient use of university resources.
28.       One problem area which has received attention has been promotion
and graduation policies. Under the academic year system historically fol-
lowed in Indonesia, a student failing one course must repeat the entire
semester. However, recent experiments at some Indonesian universities, where
credits were given for the completion of individual courses and where
students were eligible for graduation upon completion of a specified number
of credits, resulted in a quick increase in output. Reflecting this
experience, in a step to improve internal efficiency the Government issued a
Ministerial Decree in July 1979, stating a plan for the gradual introduction
of a credit system of course requirements.
29.       Government Strategy and Programs.  The Government aims to develop
universities as a supportive element to national development by producing a
sufficient number of well-educated graduates. In accordance with Indonesia's
development needs, the Government gives priority to education/teaching,
technology, basic sciences, management, agriculture and health. To achieve
this objective, the Government plans to: (a) increase internal productivity;
(b) expand and improve physical facilities and staff to accept more students;
(c) improve student services and welfare; and (d) strengthen the management
and organization of universities. A special emphasis of the Government is on
the improvement of productivity and management. This emphasis is reflected
in the 1979/80 DGHE budget, of which 41% and 29% was allocated for produc-
tivity and management improvement, respectively.
30.       Under the decree which introduced the credit system the Government
also introduced a system of education stratification, consisting of four
strata: diploma (So), Sarjana (SI), Pasca Sarjana (S2) and Doctoral (S3)
programs. Within this framework the Government plans to provide public
institutions of higher education with an opportunity to improve and expand
their programs in a sequence of steps (planning, preparation, implementation
and evaluation), which would be undertaken over a 10-year period. At present
there are eight institutions which the Goverment classifies as sufficiently
advanced to pursue the development objectives in relation to S1 and/or S2
programs. They are the Institutes of Technology Bandung and Surabaya, the



- 11 -
Institute of Pertanian Bogor, and the Universities of Indonesia, Gadjah Mada,
Airlangga, Hasanuddin and Andalas. The Government has begun major develop-
ment programs with the principal assistance of the US Agency for Interna-
tional Development (USAID) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for these
institutions except the Universities of Indonesia (UI), Gadjah Mada (UGM) and
Andalas (UNAND). In order to address the development needs of these three
universities, the proposed project would focus on the improvement and
expansion of UI and UNAND at new campus sites and of UG4 at its present site.
31.        UI, one of the principal national universities, presently enrolls
over 10,000 students and plans to expand to 20,000 by 1990. It is located on
two campuses in Jakarta and occupies a total of only 41 ha. As the separation
of the campuses inhibits interdisciplinary study and efficient administrative
services, and the limited space has resulted in overcrowding and inadequate
facilities, a new site of 300 ha has been acquired for relocation of the
University, 30 km south of Jakarta. UNAND, the largest university in West
Sumatra, enrolls 4,000 students and plans to expand to 12,000 in 1990. Spread
over six campuses in and outside Padang, UNAND suffers from the same problems
as UI. A new site of 200 ha for relocation of the campus is being acquired
outside Padang. UGM, like UI, is a major national university, presently
enrolling over 15,000 students and expecting to grow to 20,000 by 1990. UGM
needs 10 ha of additional land for reallocation and expansion of facilities,
in accordance with a campus master plan to allow for the development of the
University.
External Assistance to Higher Education
32.       Bilateral, Multilateral and Other Assistance.  As noted above,
Indonesia's higher education system has received aid from USAID and the ADB.
USAID has provided funds for advanced training for staff of. higher education
institutions, in particular the Institute of Technology Bandung. It has also
provided training funds for staff at the Universities of Andalas in science,
Airlangga in management, and Indonesia in law and campus planning and for the
interdisciplinary programs at the Institute of Pertanian Bogor. Finally,
substantial USAID assistance has been given to agricultural education for
staff and curriculum development at the University of Gadjah Mada, the
Institute of Pertanian Bogor and the University of Padjadjaran. ADB assis-
tance has extended primarily to the Institute of Technology Surabaya and the
University of Hasanuddin in Udjung Pandang (Sulawesi). This aid involves
extensive upgrading of facilities and equipment and, in the case of
Hasanuddin, relocation to a new campus. In addition, private nonprofit
foundations such as the Rockefeller and Ford Foundations, have been assisting
higher education. They generally provide grants for technical assistance
and training.
33.       Bank Group Assistance.  This project reflects the view that              -
sustained economic growth requires the development of higher education in
engineering, science, agriculture and economics. In addition, the recent
Polytechnic Project (Cr. 869-IND), a credit of $49 million, was directed at
establishing a polytechnic system in Indonesia. This project reflected the
conclusions of the subsector study on higher technical education (Higher
Technical Education Subsector Survey - Report No. 1837a-IND, January 1978).



- 12 -
34.       Since 1971, the Bank Group has provided substantial support to
the education sector by extending financing for projects which are helping
to meet educational and manpower needs for public administrators, primary and
secondary school teachers, and low and middle level technical and agricultural
workers. In view of the magnitude of Indonesia's human resource development
problems, the Bank is expected to continue its three-pronged support to: (a)
basic education spanning the first nine years of schooling; (b) higher
education to provide an adequate supply of manpower in areas crucial to
Indonesia-s development; and (c) development of administration to improve the
effectiveness of Government personnel charged with implementation of develop-
ment programs. To date, two Project Performance Audit Reports on education
projects in Indonesia have been completed. The first Project Performance
Audit Report (No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980, SecM80-440), reviews performance
under the First Education Project (Cr. 219-IND). This audit stressed the
importance of including fellowships to train teachers and school administra-
tors, and also the timely appointment of key staff to project implementation
units to ensure the success of the project. To address these issues, the
project includes substantial fellowships and the provision of a project
implementing task force, with the early appointment of its key personnel. In
addition, the university development program would be assisted in phases, so
that any unforeseen development at appraisal could be reflected at a later
stage. This phased approach reflects experience in other university
development projects in the Asia region, where implementation has averaged
nine years and where complexity of the task was underestimated. The second
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 3058, dated June 30, 1980, SecM80-527),
reviews performance on the Second Education Project (Cr.288-IND), and
describes the project as being successfully implemented. The major issues
identified by the audit are: (a) the need for more advanced project
preparation; (b) the over-provision of technical assistance; and (c) the
shortage of staff housing and boarding facilities. This project is addressing
the first issue through a phased approach to overall university development
with this project being, in effect, a careful preparatory planning phase. The
establishment of the criteria for fellowships allocation and the preparation
of terms of reference for technical assistance should help avoid the second
issue of over-provision of technical assistance. The third issue is being
addressed by the Government and expects to be further reviewed in the second
phase.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance of
UNESCO. The project was preappraised in March 1979 and appraised in January
1980. Negotiations were held in Washington from July 23 to July 25, 1980;
the Indonesian delegation was led by Professor Dr. D.A. Tisna Amidjaja,
Director General of Higher Education in the Ministry of Education and Culture.
A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3000a-IND, dated August 4, 1980) is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.



- 13 -
Objectives and Strategy
36.        The project would be the first phase of the Government's long-term
university development program. The objective of this program would be to
provide the number and quality of high-level manpower needed for development
in four high priority fields where manpower constraints are critical
bottlenecks (engineering, agriculture, science and economics including
business administration and accountancy). While the investment program would
focus on the three project universities (UI, UGM and UNAND), policy
improvements and institution building would affect the whole university
education subsector.
37.        The first phase of the program would address the major issues facing
university education, i.e., low output, poor quality and inadequate management
capacity, as well as lay the groundwork for future civil works. It would:
(a) develop and implement policy measures which would improve efficiency and
quality in the four fields at the three project universities; (b) prepare
architectural and engineering works for expanded enrollment capacity of the
selected faculties at the three universities; (c) improve educational and
professional qualifications of teaching staff in the four fields at the three
project universities; (d) increase the relevance and quantity of instructional
materials in the four fields; and (e) strengthen DGHE's management through the
establishment of a University Development Office, monitoring/evaluation and
information systems, and a management training program. In the second phase
of the program, it is anticipated that policy measures developed in the three
project universities would be adopted throughout the university system, and
the physical facilities for the selected faculty buildings would be
constructed and equipped for UI and UNAND at their new campus sites and for
UGM at the present campus site.
38.        The implementation period for this project would last five and a
half years. Progress during the implementation of the current project would
be critical in establishing the basis for proceeding with the second phase
investments. Specifically, the following steps would need to be completed
before the second phase: (a) the three project universities would have
adopted adequate policies to improve efficiency and quality, awarded about
half of the fellowships to improve staff quality, finalized academic,
organizational and campus master plans, equipment lists, and building designs,
and established central administrative, monitoring/evaluation and management
information offices; (b) two of the three universities would have completed
tender documents for building construction and equipment procurement; (c) UI
and UNAND would have initiated site development works; and (d) DGHE would have
prepared a plan to improve its organization as well as a schedule for
implementing this plan. Assuming timely progress in these areas, overlapping
of the first and second phases is expected. The second phase would take about
six years to complete.
Project Details
39.        Investments Focussing on Increasing Output (estimated cost:
$21.4 million, excluding contingencies).



- 14 -
(a)  Policy Development.  The project would provide a basis for changes
in promotion and graduation policies relating to course and thesis require-
ments. It was agreed that the Government would introduce a credit system of
course requirements and an alternative to the present thesis requirement for
the Sarjana degree in the four selected fields at the three project
universities by June 30, 1982 (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
In addition, the project would introduce other policies at the
three project universities in order to improve internal efficiency and quality
in the selected fields within a timetable agreed to between the Government and
the Bank; an annual report on progress in this regard would be submitted to
the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).  These policies would
include targets to be achieved by the three universities in areas of
utilization of staff and physical facilities, promotion and graduation, access
to education, and quality of education.  To help provide an information base
for developing on implementation strategy, the project would support studies
on schemes to enable staff to devote full time to university life and on
admission procedures to increase student performance. One man-year of foreign
specialist services to assist with the design and methodology of the studies
and six man-years of local specialist services and six man-months of foreign
observation trips would be financed under this component of the project.
(b) Preparation for Expanded Enrollment Capacity. To provide a basis
for long-term investments, the project would prepare for the expansion of the
selected physical facilities of the three project universities. To complete
the work needed to justify the expansion of the enrollment capacity in
engineering, science, agriculture and economics of the three universities from
13,600 in 1978 to 19,800 by 1990, the project would finance professional
services. This work would include completion of academic and campus master
plans, equipment lists, building designs, and preparation of tender documents
for building construction and equipment procurement. The project would also
finance initial site development of the new campuses of UI and UNAND.
40.       Investments Focussing on Improving Quality (estimated cost:
$22.1 million, excluding contingencies).
(a) Staff Development. To improve the academic and professional quali-
fications of staff in engineering, science, agriculture and economics at the
three project universities, the project would finance 460 man-years of
overseas fellowships and about 30 visiting expatriate professors (60 man-
years). The proposed fellowships would increase the percentage of the staff
in these fields with a degree beyond Sarjana from about 10% to 30% for UGM and
UNAND, and from 20% to 40% for UI. As candidates in previous fellowship
programs in Indonesia had a low pass rate in a language test required for
university admission (e.g., 10% in the English test), the project would
include foreign language training courses for the candidates (generally three
months in duration), to be conducted at the three universities. The visiting
professors would assist in improving curriculum, teaching methods and junior
staff. In addition, the project would support 100 man-years of fellowships



- 15 -
to improve faculty qualifications in social sciences at the three project
universities and in engineering and science fields at other public universi-
ties. This technical assistance program would be implemented with the
assistance of a qualified overseas agency contracted by the Government, and
fellowships would be awarded according to the selection criteria and
procedures agreed to by the Bank.
(b) Instructional Materials Development. Textbooks involving 120 titles
and totaling 150,000 copies would be made available for basic courses in the
four selected fields at public universities and institutes. A consortium in
each of the four fields (a group of representatives of public and private
institutions of higher education responsible for preparing minimum curriculum
for their discipline) would identify appropriate books which would be trans-
lated into Bahasa Indonesia and edited by professional staff under the super-
vision of the Directorate of Research in DGHE. The books would be printed by
university presses and private firms. Specifically, the project would
finance: (a) four man-years overseas training of editors (2 in each field);
(b) translation, editing and layout/design of 120 titles; and (c) printing
equipment for the presses at the Institute of Technology Bandung and UGM. It
was agreed that the Government obtain the consent of the author and the
publisher of a textbook before reproducing it (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The project would also provide public university libraries with
150,000 professional journals and reference books in the project related
fields. In addition, the project would provide six man-years of overseas
fellowships in library science and administration for the staff from the three
universities.
41.       Investments Focussing on Strengthening Management (estimated cost:
$4.0 million, excluding contingencies).
(a)  Strengthening of University System Management.  The project would
assist DGHE in improving its planning and management functions.  It would
strengthen these functions by establishing a project implementation capacity,
monitoring/evaluation and management information systems, and a management
training program. As discussed below (para. 44), a project implementation
task force has been set up within DGHE to carry out implementation of the
project and future university programs. The project would support them with
16 man-years of foreign specialist services in project management. In
addition, the project would introduce a monitoring and evaluation system
consisting of a central unit within DGHE and a local unit at each project
university. The central unit would consist of two professionals and one
administrative staff, assisted by six man-years of local and one man-year of
foreign specialist services to be provided under the project. Each project
university unit would be staffed by two university members and assisted by one
man-year of foreign specialist services. The role of the central unit would
include standardization of the indicators of internal efficiency, quality and
management, and preparation of annual targets of achievement and an implemen-
tation strategy, in collaboration with each university unit. Technical
assistance under the project would also assist in the development of



- 16 -
a management information system within DGHE. To assist in the design and
initial operation of this system the project would provide eight man-years of
foreign specialist services and 11 man-years of local specialist services.
Finally, the --oject would introduce a management training program for
managers and administrators of DGHE and universities. DGHE would establish a
management training unit comprising a director, two administrative assistants
and 20 trainers. The 20 trainers from universities and DGHE would receive six
man-months of overseas training, after which they would develop the training
program and materials with assistance of four man-years of foreign specialist
services. The training program would conduct about six short courses annually
at an existing facility including the new National Institute of Administration
building which is expected to be completed in early 1981 with assistance
provided under the Fourth Education Project (Loan 1237-IND). During the pro-
ject about 700 senior university staff and about 130 key DGHE staff would
be trained.
(b) Rationalization of University Organization and Staffing. The
project would help prepare organizational and staffing master plans for the
three project universities. These master plans would establish central admin-
istrative offices at each university and would include staff appointment and
training needs, programs and schedules, for the staff. For the preparation of
these plans the project would finance six man-years of local and three man-
years of foreign specialist services. The project would also finance profes-
sional services for building designs and preparation of tender documents for
civil works and equipment procurement, in preparation for the provision of
central administration and library buildings for UI and UGM. It is antici-
pated that financing for these buildings would be considered under the second
phase of the development program.
Project Cost
42.        The total costs of the project are estimated at $65.2 million.  The
proposed loan would finance its total foreign exchange costs of about $45 mil-
lion, comprising 69% of total costs, and the Government would finance the
remaining $20.2 million. Cost estimates for civil works, goods and services,
are based on January 1980 prices. The contingency allowance of $12.0 million
would include (a) physical contingencies estimated at 10% of base cost, and
(b) price contingencies estimated at an average of 25% of base cost and
physical contlngencies. The technical assistance costs were estimated at
$8,000 per mafi-month for foreign expert services, including salary, fees,
international travel and subsistence. Costs of local experts, including
salaries and allowance, would average $1,000 per man-month. The costs of
fellowships, including travel, tuition and board, would amount to about $1,500
per man-month for overseas training and $190 per man-month for domestic
training.
43.        Recurrent costs generated by the project are estimated at about $3.5
million equivalent (at 1980 prices). This would represent about 4% of DGHE's
projected recurrent budget in 1985/86, which would not constitute a budgetary
constraint to project implementation.



-- 17 -
Project Management and Implementation
44.        The project implementation task force which has been set tup in
DGHE, would administer implementation of the project and other university
investment programs as needs arise. It is headed by a Director who reports to
the Director General of Higher Education and consists of three sections which
would assist the three project universities in education and training,
physical and financial aspects. A central advisory procurement service unit
established in the Ministry of Education in 1980, would provide support to the
physical section.
45.       University project implementation teams have been established at the
three project universities. The task force, with support from the central
advisory procurement unit, would assist these teams in specification, tender-
ing and bid evaluation of equipment, and arrange for the issuance of letters
of credit and the payment of foreign suppliers. The three project universi-
ties would award and sign the equipment contracts and arrange local handling
and installation of equipment. These procedures are in accordance with
current government practice. The fellowships would be awarded based on
selection criteria and procedures agreed between the Government and the Bank.
The task force would help with placement of fellows at foreign universities
and recruitment of specialists, with the assistance of an agency to be
contracted. The task force would also arrange for training programs for
university project teams under the proposed loan.
46.        The Government would appoint foreign and local consultant firms as
appropriate for university campus planning and development, building designs,
and preparation of tender documents for furniture and equipment. Selection
and contracting would follow standard government procedures acceptable to the
Bank, which would initially review all consultancy contracts, bid packages,
sketch plans and equipment bids.
47.       Land has been or is being acquired for the three project univer-
sities. The Government would acquire adequate land for UNAND and UGM which
would be acceptable to the Bank, according to a schedule agreed with the Bank
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       Under the project, tender documents would be prepared for about
$90 million equivalent of civil works and about $40 million equivalent of
equipment.  Of the total, $17 million and $5 million, respectively, would be
procured under this project and the remainder would be procured under the
second phase. Contracts for civil works and equipment financed under the
project would be grouped to the extent practicable to attract competitive
bidding. Tender documents for civil works above $1,000,000 and equipment
above $300,000 would be prepared for international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines; in the bid evaluation for equipment,
domestic manufacturers would be given a preferential margin of 15% or the



- 18 -
existing customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing
equipment imports.  Tender documents for civil works packages below $1,000,000
and equipment packages below $300,000 would be prepared for local competitive
bidding in accordance with Government procurement practices ac; -table to the
Bank. Under the project, miscellaneous items, in packages not exceeding
$20,000 equivalent, could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three
price quotations up to a total of $500,000. Books and journals would be
procured through competitive bidding locally advertised or through direct
purchase after negotiations for the best discount. Prior Bank review would be
required for contract awards for civil works packages estimated to cost
$500,000 or above and in printing equipment packages estimated to cost
$100,000 or above.
49.       The proposed loan of $45.0 million would be disbursed against 20% of
the total cost of civil works; 100% of the cost of professional services
irrespective as to whether they are provided by foreign or local consultants;
100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported equipment, 95% of the ex-factory
cost of equipment domestically produced and 75% of the cost of equipment
procured locally; and 100% of the cost of fellowships and expert services
irrespective of foreign or local sources of fellowships and experts.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.
Benefits and Risks
50.       There are three principal benefits of the project: (a) increased
output of high-level graduates to meet development needs through improvements
in internal efficiency; (b) improved quality of output through staff develop-
ment, provision of educational materials and better teaching methods; and (c)
increased management capacity for administration and planning o' higher educa-
tion at DGHE and the three project universities through rationalizing organi-
zation and staffing, training, policy development and management support ser-
vices. In addition, by assisting the first phase of the Governnent's
long-term development program, the project would lay the groundwork for
further increases in output and quality by: (a) financing the technical work
required to justify the construction of selected facilities at the three
project universities which would be considered for financing under the second
phase; and (b) developing and experimenting with policies for improving
efficiency and quality in the project universities which would ie extended
throughout the university system under the second phase.  The improvements in
management capacity under this project would also provide the basis for
further improvements to management of the university system as a whole under
the second phase.
51.       The increased output generated by the project should, by 1985, meet
approximately 15% of the annual need for high level manpower in engineering,
25% of the need in science, 10% in agriculture, and 20% in economics/
accountancy.  Together with the increased enrollments anticipated under the



- 19 -
second phase and the introduction of policy measures to increase efficiency
throughout the university system by 1990, almost all of the manpower needs in
engineering, science, agriculture and economics should be met.
52.        A major risk inherent in a university development program of the
scope proposed under this project is the difficulty in coordinating imple-
mentation of various components. Universities are autonomous, and university
development, especially involving more than one university and campus reloca-
tion, entails decisions by many authorities. In order to reduce this major
risk, considerable attention has been directed towards strengthening DGHE
and the Government's university development program is being carried out in a
phased approach. This phased approach would make it easier to modify the
scope, costs and time needed for completion of the program in view of possible
changed circumstances at the end of the first phase.
53.       A more specific risk associated with the project is related to the
implementation of staff development. A large number of fellowships for
existing and prospective teachers are proposed under the project. However,
there is a risk that the proposed number of fellowships might not be fully
utilized due to a past low rate of passes in a language test required by a
receiving institution. This risk would be reduced through intensive language
training schemes provided under the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
August 27, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-20 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDON&SIA - SOCIAL INDICATOEI DATA SURM
INDONESIA                    IRERENCE am"  (WlIlTED AB1MES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. ET.)                                                     _ ST R CFT ISTIVATI)
TOTAL           2027.1                                 t0DST RECT             L0W INCOME           MIDDLE INct
AGRICULTURAL     292.3              1960  ab   1970 /b ESTIMATI a         ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  80.0       140.0      360.0                197.9                 894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     129.0       120.0     278.0                 166.0                 842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPUIATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     94.7       117.6     136.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.6        17.1      19.5                  20.8                  39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     204.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       350.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       47.0        58.0      67.0                 193.2                 376.1
PER SQ. DI. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0       419.0     465.0                 409.6                2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                         40.8        44.0      41.0                  42.0                  40.4
15-64 YRS.                         56.1        53.5      56.0                 55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1         2.5       3.0                   3.0                   3.4
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL           ,                  2.1         2.2       1.8                  2.2                    2.4
*URBAN                              3.8         3.8       3.5                  3.9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     47.0        43.0      37.0                  37.4                  28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     23.0        18.0      17.0                  14.6                   7.9
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         3.2       2.4                   2.6                   1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       181.1    2246.0
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)   ..          0.2      19.0*                 15.6                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          93.0       102.0     107.0                 101.4                 116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   89.0        92.0     105.0                 92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER MAY)          41.0        41.0      47.0                 49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        6.0         6.0       6.0                  12.0                  18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     31.0        22.0      20.0                  17.9                   5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   41.0         46.0      47.0                  50.8                  63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       126.0        ..                   ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0      12.0                  30.2                  42.4
URBAN                               ..        10.0      35.0                  66.0                  62.1
RURAL                               ..         1.0       6.0                  20.0                  29.7
ACCESS TO EYCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         12.0      15.0                  17.7                  52.8
URBAN                               ..        50.0      60.0                  71.3                  71.1
RURAL                                          4.0       5.0                    *-                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         41000.O0c   26830.0   14580.0                6322.7                4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      8010.0    2818.0                9459.0                2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1360.0      1530.0    1578.0                1758.4                 819.4
URBAN                               ..      1090.0        ..                502.9
RURAL                               ..      1670.0        ..               10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..      22.4                    ..                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4         4.8
URBAN                              4.9         5.3
RURAL                              4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.5
URBAN                                          1.6.6
RURAL                                -         1.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF IDELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          .         .
* Estimate for 1979 is 27%.



- 21 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A ERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME            MIDDLE LIYfKE
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  71.0         78.0      92.0                80.9                    98.6
HALE                  86.0         83.0      94.0                 94.3                   99.2
EMtALE                58.0         73.0      87.0                 66.7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0        16.0       19.0                26.6                    55.5
MALE                  10.0         21.0      22.0                 34.8                   60.7
FEKALE                 3.0         11.0      18.0                 18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  20.0           22.0      21.0                  9.9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         29.0      32.0                41.1                    34.6
SECONDARY                           14.0         13.0      17.0                20.5                    28.5
ADULT LITEERACY RATE (PERCENT)        39.0         57.0      62.0                 40.9                   85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSEhGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          2.0       3.6                  1.8                    9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         21.0      37.0                25.8                   118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1          0.8       2.3                  2.4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       16.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       0.9                   ..                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34752.5       41547.3   48610.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.9        31.0       29.0                29.4                    36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.8         66.3      60.1                 70.5                   51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.4         9.7       11.0                 11.6                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.7         35.3      34.6                 37.9                   39.1
MALE                                  54.2         49.5      48.6                 51.3                   48.5
FEMALE                                20.0         21.6      20.8                 23.7                   29.6
ECONOhIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3        1.2                 1.2                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         33.7/d
hIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.07         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          6.8/d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         17.3/d
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     150.0/e              107.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..     107.O0e              86.5                   192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     145.0/e
RURAL                                 ..           ..      98.0/e                 ..                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      59.0                46.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      65.0                51.7                    33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962:  /d Income recipients;  /e 1980.
April, 1980



-22-
it on esaistos     4Page;3 of5 pages
useful to descr.ib, order, of neatud., Indicate Ortes, sa d obaertase sertais sejor differeeces betees, mowines.
te a atdgottsees for each Indicator are popalatton-gweted gesetrio asets, coluiag the setrams niles of the indicator end the most popslated
oonmot~i~r~j7Sto  lack of data, gusp enrages of all indcators for Capital Sarpsas Oil b9opertes and of ladiators of Aleets to Vat- and beret.
Dpleooa. 1,  oasiog, Ions Oketribation en  Ponrby fr   tothr awatqy gsap  are pp,sistin-ed9ted geewtne  -a"s etbut  -asisn of the extra   slnins ad
~tI.    Tet Pslst sorac   arI  copiigln  te   n   e                 uteri                       Ra      o  peopl  [tta, A ste, gad ri al  srMt   ssecrrets disposal 
Aae."ticutse -    ta   reen  estiate o  ewele  ars  ee  tOraij                                praae of their  eopeotive poel,fations. hereta diP .es   rFnen
m-6or pcr.etentl  for  arts pasturs aehe s4ade bribl    adn   rt                              h    olein    n   ipsl   iho    ihottetet   fba                           ort
lie reflow                                                                   modwaste-eater b  eatne-berwe-yet    or the us  of pit priviseasie
P   bP GAIAU         NP per .epita ootiStee at enowat abet joiose,                  p-i~~o6p                    -ppjtion dvitded by -M.tr of prsoti.oig physician
.I9nI      7b17jjOoocreion setbd en WIorld Nest AtIi-  (1976478 basis);             -lliCfhhiEl                      ol at miiivrsity leve.
ihyc, 1970, ad  1976 data.                                         popajatlonf  no ina___rsin  Person - P.pe1atiws divided by outer of pretiotog nele
ninny   miumnni PU  chITA - Annua  -o.sontion of oonria  ese                            en      l   geStat    aes   ractica-1 rs  end assist-t  ues
ril ots  ignte,petrolee    natura  gas ad hydro-, mole., sad geePrulatio  pe  Hosoital Bed - total    he, end  rural     Puain(total, urban
hrnl  leticity  to bkilogrns, of o..l oqulcalest pe  capita; 1960                         ad r-ra) divided by their repctv   ome  o   ospital beds eoaiblal  to
1970, and 1976 itt..                                                                         public eat private gerral sod epeialised hostpita1 sod rebhbilltatioecetoo
dospit.ls are establistsots. presmaotly staffed by at least one physici-o
POPULIATIONI AnI VITAL STATISTiIC                                                               Natabliahnent  peowidisg priocipe1ly  -ostdisi1a   sr  ot inclded.  uRal
Tat.1lPpaletloo    1 M-rear  aillilon) - As of Jib' 1; 1960, 197, end                        honpitels, ico-er, include health .od aedice1 oatora cot p-nently staffed
1977 data.                                                                                 by a pfyeicis, (hut by * aeiiol assistant, nus, aiddife, etc.)  hich offe
Urban Prolatito  (percent of total  - Ratio of urban to total populatibo;                    io-patinot sdciadatioo  ad P-oide a Ilnited rage cf eedtcol facilitie..
diff-rct defintions of  rban aros  esy atfoot ... araillty of data                       AM18.fl9ngpr No  ptalhd- Total aser of adnisso.s t.oOr dleciarges fros
sogcutries;  960, 1970, sod 1975 data.                                               ho-pit-6altdlrdiitiue r of beds.
P,,culatito  Proj_ etions
Pnpol.ati  in to  ee  --DOO - Cosrect population projections ace base  i               IOUJING
1975,tita1 popolatio. by sg  sod sec and their ecrtality sod fertility                A-ersse lice if Hio,oshold (persona Pr bounehold) -total. urhso  ad nasa  -
c_tee. i'-jetion par-etern fir ecrtality ratee bosri.. of thee                           A Acosebold  ...siots of a group of todividoals to   sir  lIvin   q-ater  sod
level  assoniog life  -npe-tay at birth in-rosiagit n b cutry's                          their -In  nesla.  A boarder or lodger my or say cot be tinludrd In toe
per oapitn j.oos  leve, ad feasle life  ecyocta-y otebillaing at                         iusebold for  t.tisoicsl mparp.ana.
77.5 yeor.o.  The peranct-r  for fertility rate also have three level                 Average ounbrofpsnsero.- total. urba, sod rura  - Averge e-uber
oouigdiirinfrltyEaccrding to bo-  level sod past                                ofproaprri..l  all uran  sod  -oaIcuidveeetldelno
Is,l iLasoc  porr c.tc   onr   ote   sind one of uhe-                                 -epcotivelp,  D-el.llngeolodn no-repw et structures ad u-ccpied p-cto.
ciue c:~i.otions of  crtalhtp  sod fertility trends for projection                    Ao.as to Electricity  pecn   fde.l                 -ttl   rban  sod rura   -  Co--
St.tloonr  ppontici - to.  a otatio.ary pcpalatli  there Is no growth                      to.tal,  obso, sod rura  deellingo respectively.
eiocc thr birth rate is equal t. tie death rate, -od also the ego
t_n tryr  ice  --ot c. Tbis is schi-d cob' after fertility rates                   EDUCATION
-lrcii-vtrDtherrplncnot Leve  of -it tort  .reprcdtitc  rate,  h.n                    Adjustod Elsrillmt natios
-hn  g-trnti-e oftnc  rvlse    ,tcf voZty   The stationar  poPe-                    ~     i'r-ar f e Ii     - total, cle sod feenle  - Ir.. total, ale  ad fonecnol
Iotivvicecoctwvdc h  huso   i   rjce   chnrateristbo                                        en-f    Lgen at the prinary level n  p-eetges if .rePective prir;y,
rf tich   plaio  in the fenr 2000, nod the rote of decline of fertility                    nch-ol-age pcplati-t; norwaly teioldes  bhildres aged 6-1l ye-r  lot
-o  torplaceee  leve.                                                                      adjusted for differet 1ength  of prteary educatio; forcui lnco
Pee ottlosr  poplatio  in rehed - The year shoe atticonry Ppcslaticc                         ovrs   du-noto  eaolet nay ..ceed 100 percet ni_r  te    pilpti
do    a  hv hectd                                                                  c  11co  shov  th         fficial achol ae
Pricuintico Ceonity                                                  lecon~~~~~S dar  a_ho1 - total, asle sod feesele - C..patein   lo;dcor
Per s k. . - Mld-y-n  opp,,ntio- per sq-ar  Ailont- (110 het-e) of                           education rquir-n it leat four fear  ofapproved pinyIttcioi;
total tren                                                         ~~~~~~~~provides genea  ccc.tion.l  ortahr trninitg itoot-tio-  for pupils
t'yr                      1-b.srcitrlld  - Cospoted an aho  foe agricultocal land           uselb       f1  o1   erso   g;cropoececcre   r   oeol
only., voc                                                                                                 'tl7oded.;'                 -P.-- -- .1 9--L
Poolt Ai   - tructur   Percent)b- Child-e  (0-14 year),  orhiog-age                  PV-tiooa  envolent (prcent of sevonderyl - Fircation-l ioot.ttio-  i-lude~
(15-ts  eno6nd rtirei (hI  pero nodoe)a  percentae  of aid-year                              tedboical *ldutii,o ther  rianchich operate idepnd-tnly o
"prpoltlo-; 176,1970, and 19(7 data.                                                         dpiet   fscodr   otttos
G--htoc   rot lit  pret -ttl-Ana1ect   ne   ftoa.ad                                        i-t=eher ratio -    ea1    and acon,c   - Total etud-nt  carolle  i.
ye-  pooplati-t  for 15-O  10-0,ad 1970-.                                                    prisary and aec-dry lo-1l  divided by nuter  if teachere  Io tie  .roe-
Fopulatio   rnblt'pce)  - uban-Anal gr h -at- of  cba                                          opocdig bids,.
po iatot  fo~r 19,50C   9760-, and 1970-5                                               Adlieayrte (p-rc-t) -Literate  ndoIto  nl.                     ora   n   rt)n
Cruide cirth into (Per thinand) - Annual live tioto  per thounad of  id-                       np__etagr of total ndilt populotioc aged 15 penn  adovr
yeapoplttio.; 1960, 1970, and 1977 dato.
Crude Dec01 Pate (per thoonand) - Aoc-a  denthi per th-uotad of niu-y-                   CONSUMfrIiOi
pooltloo; 1960, 19,70, and 1977 idta.                                                 Passeoge Cor  tper th-vac  ppuoto               P  ..o.g   or   -opri-e actrosr
InroolProducti-n late  -  orA..    tote  of iaughteros    a  cill tea                        oeoc   esta   ight persoo;  -ncldes                          b--ace,hero   sod  ilitary
PitfIc   orsatl ritrduotle  peiodif tie ecp-riee  peset ag-                                vhicvo
opc  fr-tilt   rnteo  unaly fie-yea  n-9-e ending it 1960,                          P           -- P ivr  (per tbcusad Wpoalatico) - All types of reoJrivr  for radi.,
1970, and i975.                                                                            irosrnots to geer           ",ohi  pe  tionn   of pipultioc; e-lod-o uolic--d
Poorl I l                       A- -icetos bo1 (thouads) - donuel tudor of                   vecrverincouci.rie_adi   ea    lorgotsito                              vcooi
-cnptorc  f birth-cvtrol device  ucdr -.Pi-e. of tatina .. eId-ly                          vffevt; datn for re-t yeses siy tot be  -op-bolen~itr-o.-tvil-ten-
ran iyPinoig     dor   per-ent of onrr1id 00 ) - Pe-o-tge of earned                   IV Reciver  (per thouoand popolatioc) - TV reciveri for brotust it geicra-1
oo   1,of 1,il-taitgag  (15_i4  evre  sh  is  birth--otrt1 dic-c                       pbolic per thoused poplatiot;  -ocld-n olicennd TV coo-ivrroicoutr;v-
tool-ird el-te  iv os        g o  grop.                                                and i  yen-  oh.. regiotrntico  if TV jet s.na  in effect.
Circlaton  pertiosan  cn lation   - Itoso the --gro  c 'ircltion
FOO 1AN N5fF ITTOS                                                                           of "diy  goerl intretiooppr dfi..edacp_ i-d-c1 pbtitrtiot
codec  f foo  Prioctiotp- Cspils (1969-71-110) - Ide- of per -opits                   devtol prlsovly to rer-daiog cec..n - cot   It Is   . cniered to  iv "dilly"
cra   rDurtio-  f nl1 food c-s-dit ies  Frcdurttoeetvluden  seed and                  if it apcr   0lee   ortir      ci
fvdnd it 0   olio  ye         ce   C       di tis cover priessy goud'.t.             Cine- Anou..I Att-tuod       erCpt-nrln   - booed itth  colr0-   f tirketi
e.g   _gncn  i_otrodIofcg"o) hc ore   diel and coetslc otriot-tld lurig thy year  ~itludiog adnit  to drive-ic cioc-   -d crile
(e.g. -rff- and t-s -rIvolded).  Aggreoste poductio of end  coutry                        uno
10  oov  ocenirol oecge produce  prior-     iis
(' - uito tu-l  of vo1-i-s (p-rcet of reqir_eto) - Conputvd frein                   LAOR FIRCE
--rA   voinlc f_ict fod cuppli-o  -vilitle is  ootiry per onpits                      Total Latr Forc  (th-oaodo) - Ecoi-ncli.y sctio  pcr-, i-cludiig  tr-c
Per Jy.  uAistbir  cpi-v  co-price do-tic  produ-ti-, icyc-ta boo                       for-v  ad uocployed hit  -uclodi,g          uvi .toddetic, vc-. lefcil,,ct-
-roto, hco  tccgc  iv  toc.  Net ouPPli-o  -oldv noinl feed, s-el,                    lc-anivo _utrle- ar  cot coopashle
quactitrc -ic_iI.. fool      ..ocvciwt, and I-rcc  in diotribitict. Requir-            pe,yp~e~(-fnaeIbrfreu   brc...tsc_f totn,l Inio  force.
evtrto ovr  -cinstd by FAO tn-d it ptpoiol~i-lrn  oc"d  fo  ten.                      d c)lturjen_          t       b.,l fo-ocit fsricg, focetry, tootiog and
cr-clp nod  -thst  ooo dericc       -i'or 1s  t-crtre   o' ighto,                       fiohiod so rcito of total Iloc fine.
oge  nd Ot diorviiirtc   fP poustr,  nbalolgIIpr to for                        Itdustry Ipe--et) -lnhr foroc in elitig, c-o -trusi,   -ofvtu-ii  tid
ott iotoeod Icon                                                                elciricity, oster and go    por-etageo   t.t1 bbo  foc.-
Pcroci t  t91%    f  -rt-i  groom -r  day) - Prot ivi   -itet if Per               Partipitio- cute_(pe         tt.)-. total, ale, sod f-sole- Artic ipatioc or
- onito  It cuply of fvd Per lop  Oct spply of food I  delri-d sostivityrnt-saeceptdc   total  sal, and f-nli  isbor force  -e pe-
-  euce sfoe al   -tur-rc   ensblisled by100Proid  for                     _otogen of total, ode and feenle pipulati- of .1l  g- cirepectively;
viiec  lirane  o_tC 6g r-o   f tots1 protole Per day ad 20  eS-o of                1960, 19C0, and 1975 dsin-   moor ae  ILt` patioipstiou  mrn. cvflrtig
tiioo   nodpolioprotin,  f cliih 11 grno   s.ivod be anisa  preteto.             ug--ctructor  if tIepoultic,ud lo,g tvee tr-d'  A fes votlet-
Thcnv otandacut ncr losvrthan thc-  of 75 gr-   of total prutio and              ar  fr-  notioca  sirec
25 gruno  f  ci-nl pr-toio  ana   verog  foe tie  -oId, pr-pc-d by PAl                fooncai, lic nlcy Oath_ -  Patio cI pip,,1tl- under 15 and 65 and over ti
th,tie  Thir    rIdFod  .uve.....orfoc  in age group vf 15 -64 ye-r.
vccpit  Pr,tio  upply free ania1 and foley  - Proteic supply of food
Cub tov  i-)  urtilt  inc  pertidond)  ~-AnIa  death IPer thousad               Percen tae obfPrivate i-oe  (both inb cash sod bid) - hEcev-d by richest
.0 ace moop 1I. peo , tocildren  it this ugir  rp; forh_ct d_vl-                    Sp-r t, richest 20 p-reet, pooret 20 P-r-et, nod poores  II percen
--tgcdooi-t onto de_iv_d from  IIfe tnble.                                              if h-oucholda.
HEAiLTH                                                                                    POVERTY TAIGIOT GROUPtIUSPP,Ibi
Li Pclpectsoy     lio   yrr(-hvae oc   fyano   ieFoticated Aboooehiei  Oca Iol(09pr  s a -,-urban and rurl1
cosciga  i'tl       170  nod 1977. Ao-bsltpvety looa  leel-,  Is thet.taoec lee  blo  hchasii
ofan   srt tiy   o   (perthounani) - A-..aI deaths of infants under cotrltii...lly adequate dir~t PI.onetal;  son -foodieuirneno  i  nt
yv   of toe per tthuond lire births.                                                       affordahi
Acovi to loVe Watrv  ~p-reto    pito)-  ia,uban  ad moa.-htiated ORlatice PMvety Isos -lte  (us$ pe  capital - urba  ad rurl 
ot styr -oPp,  (.loold-  treated ourfceostors or ontr-nted but                          peronl  oI-e of the coutry.  brma  leve  is de-iv-d fri. the  -ror   1-1c
iooo      ..tsc 7 -0c  dc  no tint fi  protected bor-hcs, springs,                  cOtl a.t-jctet for higher cot of lictag it urban areas
nod cavita-Y eelc   - n  pr-trcg- of their respetive popslatio.-  In                     Fstiaated Pocclation 001cc AbsouePoet  moeLevel                     .. (yret( - urha Ia
a- ro  orsapbllic  founis  or  tstadpos t located not ece  than                          rua        ecn   fppltion (urba   ad coa)oo  c   nol1epv'
2(07 cet-  f-volhun- sop to cooside-d as being ottis reaonable
tc Ioo  r,Iot ho-r-  Ii rura  area  reasonbile cn   slieply
-ta xt        - ivies f- ye nnr  of the houshold di oct have to npe-d                                                               F onont  and Socia1 Pats Divinion
di  _pr_ciotot  pac.t of the isp  ii fetching the fsaily'a  -nt-r. cods                                                      Ebc.no.lo Analyslo and P-oJetiona leparte-co
Augs-t 1979



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of. 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
USS Mln               1960-65           1965-70           1971-70
GNP at Market Prices            47,461  100.0           1.9                4.9              7.8
Gross Domestic Investment    10,022   21.1              3.3               11.5             14.7
Gross National Saving            9,233   19.5           5.8               5.1              12.0
Current Account Balance         -1,155   -2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           10,278   21.7           1.5               7.8               8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS            9,144   19.3          0.2               10.9              17.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added        Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln    %          Mln      %            USS      Z
Agriculture                     11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6            329    49.7
Industry                        12,672   33.9        4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                        13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -          3.0      5.3
Total/Average                37.339  100.0       56.4   100.0           662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(RP Billion)                              Z of GDP
1977/78   1978/79                          1977    1978
Current Receipts                  3,535      4,266                          18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure               2.149      2.744                          11.5    12.6
Current Surplus                   1,386      1,522                           7.4      7.0
Capital Expenditures              2,157      2,556                          11.5    11.7
External Assistance (net)           738         987                          3.9     4.5
MOVEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    695      987   1,452   1,978   2,631   3,131  3,809
Bank Credit to Public Sector             129      153      209      990   1,051      883  1,442
Bank Credit to Private Sector            524      932   1,186   1,376   1,737   2,017  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 - 100)         106      139      196      234     280      311    336
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      6.4    31.1    41.0    19.4    19.7    11.0    8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -14.0    18.6    36.6   373.7         6.2   -16.0   63.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector           65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    16.1   29.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a  Exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 - US$1, thereafter.
/b  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
June 30, 1980



ANNEX I
- 44 -                                             Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                       1976    1977    1978        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976-78)         US$ Mln       7
1.  Exports:                           6,573   7,952   7,989
(a)  Oil and LNG (net)           3,710   4,445   4,010        Oil and LNG (net)             4,055      54.1
(b)  Nonoil                      2,863   3,507   3,979        Timber                          986      13.1
2.  Imports (incl. net NFS)           -6,657  -7,777  -8,129         Rubber                          653       8.7
(a)  Imports                    -6,167  -7,241  -7,543        Coffee                          488       6.5
(b)  NFS (net)                    -490    -536      586       Palm Oil                        190       2.5
3.  Resource balance                     -84      175    -140       Tin                              253       3.4
4.  Factor services                     -718    -865  -1,015         Manufactures                    261       3.5
(a)  Interest public debt /a    -314    -436    -499          All others                      619       8.2
(b)  Other (net)                  -404    -429    -516
5.  Balance on current account          -802    -690  -1,155              Total                    7,505    100.0
6.  Direct foreign investment             287     285      271
7.  Capital grants                        100     100      100
8.  Public M 6 LT loan /a                                            EXTERNAL DEBT - December 31, 1979
(a)  Disbursement                2,334   1,955   1,627                                        Disbursed  Undisbursed  Total
(b)  Amortization                 -457    -825    -969                                        -------- US$ million -------
(c)  Net disbursements           1,897   1,130      658
9.  Other capital (net)                 -481    -174       834      Total External Public Debt         13,086      5,811    18,897
10. Change in reserves
(- increase)                    -1,001    -651    -708
11.  Net official reserves              1,557   2,208   2,916        DEBT SERVICE RATIO                         1977    1978    1979
Reserves in months of imports + NFS        2.8     3.4      4.3       Public debt service as % of exports    15.9    18.4    15.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                      IBRD/IDA LENDING (May 31, 1980) (US$ million)
IBRD       IDA
August 1971 through November 14, 1978
Outstanding & Disbursed                     1,062.29    650.05
US$1.00  -  Rp 415                                               Undisbursed                                  1,705.71    281.75
Rp 1,000 -  US$2.41                                              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed               2,768.00    931.80
Since November 15, 1978
US$1.O0 = Rp 625
Rp 1,000 - US$1.60
/a Based on IBRD external debt data.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
July 18, 1980



- 25 v                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 24 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1980)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Four Loans and twenty-five Credits fully disbursed    281.00  325.20              -
259     1971   Tea                                                  15.00        0.40
300     1972   Population                                           13.20        1.53
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                          11.00        1.77
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                 5.00        0.80
387      1973   Third Education                                     13.50        4.25
399     1973   West Java Thermal Power                              46.00        1.58
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                    7.80        4.91
405     1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                        50.00        0.37
428      1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        9.02
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                           5.00        1.33
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                         16.00        7.20
480      1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        1.38
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                       30.00       18.61
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                 40.00       11.78
827      1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       28.16
869     1979   Polytechnic                                          49.00       48.35
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                           10.00        9.97
919     1979   Transmigration II                                    67.00       67.00
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                         12.00       11.76
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                      45.00       45.00
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                                 45.00       45.00
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                    42.00       42.00
1014      1980   National Ag. Research Project                       30.00       30.00
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                   25.00                 1.68
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                    14.50                 2.73
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                            65.00                36.28
1127      1975   Fourth Power                               41.00                 1.58
1179      1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                12.96
1197      1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 7.03
1236      1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00                78.26



- 26 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1237    1976   Fourth Education                            37.00                22.83
1250    1976   Second Shipping                             54.00                26.52
1254    1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion                  70.00                 2.40
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                 90.00                31.43
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension               22.00                 9.40
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                          33.00                16.41
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                     16.38
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                    52.50                11.89
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                          32.00                17.92
1363    1977   Second PDFCI                                15.00                 5.61
1365    1977   Sixth Power                                116.00                49.49
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                       13.00                11.49
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.00                15.94
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                           63.00                54.10
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                            35.00                25.59
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                      8.24
1472    1977   Second Population                           24.50                19.68
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                        15.00                12.04
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.00                51.17
1513    1978   Seventh Power                              109.00                98.69
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Trp. Eng.   10.00                      2.16
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                           140.00               132.40
1579    1988   Eleventh Irrigation                         31.00                27.17
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                     64.26
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          77.00                73.61
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     54.00                53.85
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control           50.00                49.74
(Thirteenth Irrigation)
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                42.00                41.50
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                              130.00               125.90
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                              50.00                50.00
1707    1979   Transmigration II                           90.00                90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                               175.00               173.70
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         36.00                36.00
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III           99.00                96.74
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.00               116.00
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S-holders IV            42.00                42.00
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                   35.00                35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project /a                 35.00                35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project /a                     253.00               253.00
/a Not yet effective.



- 27 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 24 pages
US$ .illion
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total                                          3,056.00  931.80   2,537.92
of which has been repaid                        47.41    0.78
Total now outstanding                          3,008.59  931.02
Amount sold                            28.24                0.00
of which has been repaid            -17.57      10.67
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a              2,997.92  931.80
Total undisbursed                              2,145.75  392.17   2,537.92
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 24 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of June 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            --- (US$ million) ---
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.3         -        0.3
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.4       0.1        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Pagan Sejahtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material           48.0        5.0      53.0
Total gross commitments                             114.8      17.6     132.4
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  69.0       2.1       71.1
Total held by IFC                                   45.8       15.5      61.3
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   63.1            6.0       69.1



-29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                              6-8
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811 and 995)
Other Agriculture Production (259, 319, 358, 400, 405, 480,                  8-11
1318, 1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835 and 984)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)                  12
Rural Development (946)                                                       13
Agro-Business and Credit (785 and 827)                                          13
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692)                               13-15
Energy (399, 1127, 1259, 1365, 1513, 1708 and 1872)                           16-17
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (1254)                                                  17
Industrial Estates (428)                                                      18
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                           18
Coal Mining (S-9)                                                             19
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                               19
Nutrition (1373)                                                              20
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                        20
Transportation
Highways (1236 and 1696)                                                      21
Marine Transport (1250)                                                       21
Ports (1337)                                                                  22
Tourism (479)                                                                   22
Urban Development (1040, 1336 and 1653)                                         23
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                    24
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
delay project completion by four years. Consequently, the current closing
date of December 31, 1980, is expected to be extended. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is currently expected
to be completed by December 1983. The total project cost is currently estima-
ted to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about three years behind the original completion date.  This is mainly due to
a delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of another year due to delayed land acquisition, delayed payments
to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. Because of
double digit inflation and the Rupiah devaluation the total project cost is
currently estimated at $227 million, which is $24 million more than the last
mission estimate and about 38% above the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
are currently about 50% of the appraisal estimate, but are expected to
significantly increase in FY80/81. All major contracts have been awarded and
sufficient funds are allocated for the programmed construction this year.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7 of 24 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Initial delays cannot be expected to be made up during construction
and the final completion date is estimated to be March 1983, a delay of 21
months. Further delays would occur if right-of-way lands are not initiated
in advance of the construction program. Works are proposed to be executed
under small to mediun contracts using manual labor instead of equipment.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Delay in implementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred in awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target. Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FY80/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
A smooth start to project implementation is being made. Contracts
for consulting services were awarded before or only slightly beyond the dead-
line except for those for the Jatiluhur Tertiary Development component, which
is slightly behind schedule. Completion of the Cisedane Drainage Component
will be about six months late due to the delay in completing tender documents
and in acquiring rights-of-way for the first civil works contract. The
initial delays in Jatiluhur are expected to be made up during construction and
final completion may still be as projected during appraisal. Similar delays
in Cisedane are unlikely to be recovered and a six-month delay in final
completion is anticipated. The total project cost is expected to be within
the original estimate.



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 8 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
This loan became effective last October and the initial progress is
satisfactory. Consultants have been engaged for the construction supervision
and studies provided under the project. The construction of river training
works and flood protection levees under six on-going contracts is progressing
well and on schedule. Two major works, the construction of the Rambatan
Channel and Bangkir control structure are scheduled for bid opening in June
1980. The major difficulty foreseen at this stage is the land acquisition for
the rights-of-way. The implementing agency is aware of this problem and is
trying to resolve it. Disbursements are presently below appraisal estimates.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date:  January 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective on July 3, 1980.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
This credit was declared effective on July 3, 1980.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: $15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1980.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent.  Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs increased project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate, but the
economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over 20%. The closing
date has been extended to August 31, 1980, in order to make payment for goods
ordered but not delivered by the previous closing date.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: $11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program under the project has been completed and the
construction of processing facilities should be completed by the middle of
1981. Production, profitability and costs of PNP X continue to be satisfac-
tory. PNP X has expanded its operations further under Loan 1499-IND



33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 9 of 24 pages
(NES I), and its work on planting rubber for smallholders under NES I and
under Loan 1318-IND (Transmigration I) is progressing well. Although there
are some temptrary difficulties relating to completion of the palm oil mill
and rubber processing facilities, overall project performance remains very
satisfactory.
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the objective has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. Production will not be adversely affected since
replanting yields are higher. Costs are now estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% since replanting is more expensive and costs have
risen sharply because of inflation. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates for the sane reasons. The project has made a significant impact
on the private sector of the Indonesian tea industry. The project training
program is especially noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000
smallholders through practical village training schemes.
Credit No. 405  Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:    $50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Factory rehabilitation (PTP XV and XXI/XXII) cmpleted, but
performance still below appraisal forecast. PTP XXI/XXII is taking vigorous
steps to improve performance and re-orient field staff to the Government
decision that all sugarcane be grown by farmers, none on land rented by
factories - a traumatic and dislocating change. PTP XV is finding it more
difficult to adapt. The three modern project factories at Pesantren,
Gempolkrep and Sragi have minor problems on completion of the 1979 season.
Cane areas have expanded about as forecast, but average yields are much
lower due to switch to farmers- cane and PTP lack of experience in farm
extension work (being remedied). PTP XXI/XXII made a substantial profit in



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 10 of 24 pages
1979 ($11.3 M); PTP XV made a substantial loss ($3.6 M), though its lowest
loss in five years. Capital reconstruction for PTP XV is being actively
considered. Uneven supply and poor quality of cane, through improving,
still inhibit results. Cost reduction is being achieved, but desirable
factory amalgamation is resisted because it would reduce employment. The
Indonesian Sugar Experiment Station (Pasuruan) has been reorganized to meet
the need for more intensive research on new varieties, especially rainfed
and ratooning, and on intercropping and upland soil fertility; required
additional funds are included in the National Agricultural Research Project.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by the Government's skipjack tuna
enterprise and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have
been ordered. The quality of fishpond lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia
suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; results are patchy and
arrears excessive in some areas. Coverage is much less than appraisal fore-
cast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but infla-
tion and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project performance has been slower than expected. An
additional 400 families have been settled at Baturaja, bringing the total
to 2,200 compared to a target of 3,100. About 1,800 ha is being cropped
at Baturaja. Project management has been strengthened by recruitment of
some new staff. Infrastructure work at villages 4 to 8 is slow due to
shortage of of funds and for the same reason no new contracts have been
signed. No progress has been recorded on the seed farm which is still 70-
130 ha short of target and pastures have still not been satisfactorily
developed.  Detailed plans for villages 9, 10 and 11 are now being prepared
by the implementing agency.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been some delays in the implementation of the project
owing to the necessity to resurvey and map a significant portion of the
project areas. However, rapid progress has recently been achieved and it
should be possible to maintain the original implementation schedule. Bids



- 35-                      ANNEX II
Page 11 of 24 pages
for land clearing and construction of roads have been evaluated and the con-
tract is expected to be awarded shortly.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project-s overall physical progress has been generally good
but unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. Housing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way which
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is behind. The appointment of new project manager and
support staff from local authorities have helped speed up implementation.
The management of PTP IV, the local authorities and the Directorate General
of Estates have agreed to the Bank's recommendation that preparations for
the construction of settlers' houses should start immediately and that the
upgrading and staffing of the Sungai Tiga Extension and training Center in
Jambi should be implemented.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date.: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is off to a good start. Reasonable progress has been
achieved in the estate development components, and preparations being made
to start implementation of the smallholder components this year should
result in the planting of about 5,000 ha of smallholder rubber and the
settlement of the first 600 participating settlers by March 1981.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders IV:  $99 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 984  Smallholder Rubber Development:  $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
This Credit was declared effective on May 23, 1980.



- 36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 12 of 24 pages
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD) civil works in Pangragajian have been
completed, in Margahayu are ahead of schedule, in Baruajak (all highland
vegetables) have been completed (slightly behind schedule), while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I rice and paliwija
crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of labor and difficulties in
procurement. Tenders for Sukamandi Phase II have been issued and contracts
have been awarded for field and workshop equipment, furniture and vehicles.
Tenders for laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu are expected to
be issued shortly. In addition to 60 long-term fellowships abroad, 247 long-
term domestic fellowships have been arranged. Under the Agency for Agricul-
tural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE) most of the equipment,
furniture and vehicles have been received and distributed to ten completed
agricultural information centers (AICs). Extension materials are being
produced and distributed from the AICs. Disbursements under the project are
improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created.
Appointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project
directorate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional
Assisant Directors. Civil works have been resumed and the training program
has started. Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing
difficulties and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with support-
ing documentation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for pre-
financing outlined by the Finance Ministry last year is expected to help solve
the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1989; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
This Credit was declared effective on July 3, 1980.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
This Loan and Credit were declared effective on July 16, 1980.



37                      ANNEX II
Page 13 of 24 pages
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
This credit became effective in December 1979 and the start of
implementation has been smooth. A Project Coordinating Unit has been
established and staffed within BAPPEDA (the provincial development planning
agency) and the working papers have been translated into Bahasa Indonesia
for distribution to the participating agencies. A Project Steering Committee
has also been set up by the Governor of Yogyakarta.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, which provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, became
effective August 17, 1978. Despite start-up difficulties, BI has now
established and staffed all project management units. The three field units
in Central Java, East Java, and West Sumatra are developing new lending
approaches and assisting handling banks in project promotion and preparation.
The training and studies components of the project are progressing satis-
factorily.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers



- 38 -                     ANNEX II
Page 14 of 24 pages
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Delivery of books takes
about one month to a year depending on the location of schools. The Project
Implementing Unit advises that the remaining 50 million textbooks (grades 5
and 6) will have been printed by September 1980 and delivered before the
Closing Date. Project costs have increased due to the increased scope of
the project and inflation since 1973 which has affected the cost of paper,
printing and transportation.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. The engineering technicians
(polytechnic) component is making good progress. Staff appointments follow
the appraisal schedule. The first civil works contract for site grading of
the Technician Education Development Center (TEDC) and the Bandung polytechnic
(PT) have been awarded. Contractors for the remaining civil works have been
prequalified. Bids for the construction of the TEDC and the Bandung PT were
opened and evaluated in June 1980. Equipment for the TEDC has been awarded.
The expert services and the fellowship program is progressing satisfactorily.
The accountancy component is also making good progress, after some initial
delays.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The three subprojects under the Ministry of Education (MOE), Minis-
try of Manpower (MOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN) suffered
(a) initial delays due to slow site acquisition and late contracting agencies;
and (b) additional delays due to slow awarding of physical facilities because
of weak project management, late release of budget funds and late ministerial
approvals. Overall delays amount to about two years and will require post-
ponement of the Closing Date. The MOE component's objectives are to build,
equip and commission four Technical Training Centers (TTCs) for technical
training at secondary level and two Faculties of Technology in Teacher Train-
ing Colleges (FKTs). Civil works are completed and 93% of equipment contrac-
ted, but due to the necessity to retender some equipment, the project is about
two years behind appraisal schedule. The MOM component's objectives are to
build, equip and commission 17 new vocational training centers and to provide
25 mobile training units. About 45% of civil works are completed and 31% of
equipment contracted.  Technical assistance is on schedule.  The LAN compo-
nent s objectives are to provide buildings, furniture, equipment and technical
assistance for the principal civil service training Institute in Indonesia.
Civil works are 24% complete, two years behind schedule, procurement of
furniture and equipment follows the civil works schedule.



-39 -ANNEX II
Page 15 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project which finances the development of primary and secondary
teacher training has made satisfactory progress with the implementation of
the educational aspects. The National Team of 40 educators has completed the
in-country training of 110 educators and initiated training of 7,000 staff of
primary teacher training colleges (SPGs) and secondary teacher training
colleges (IPIPs). The implementation of physical aspects is delayed by 6-12
months because of problems with site acquisition, late release of budget
funds, and late approvals of recommended awards. Therefore, only about 40%
of civil works have been awarded and 30% completed. Corresponding percentages
for equipment are 30% and 16%. Despite the delays, the Project Implementing
Unit still expects to complete the project on schedule.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces by financing civil works
to renovate two and establish four provincial centers, instructional equipment
and vehicles, in-service training, materials development, a basic learning
fund, and related technical assistance. The project is making reasonable
progress. Civil works for all six centers have been awarded, two are comple-
ted and in use, three are about 90% completed and one, the Center of Semarang
has just been awarded. Furniture has been tendered for the four new centers
and about 55% of equipment has been awarded. Compared to appraisal estimates,
the physical facilities are delayed about 12 months. Progress in the educa-
tional aspects is that of 64 fellowships, 54 have been awarded and 44 conclu-
ded. Under the expert services program, two experts have completed services,
nine are in post, and four are still to be recruited. Staff appointment and
material development are on schedule.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the Government's long-
term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural
manpower. It finances the renovation, furnishing and equipping, expansion
and relocation of 26 existing agricultural development schools and 16 exist-
ing agricultural in-service training centers; and the construction and
furnishing and equipping of 5 agricultural development schools and 7 agricul-
tural in-service training centers. It also provides technical assistance
for the improvement of curricula, education planning and evaluation. The
Project Implementation Unit is now fully staffed and implementation is gener-
ally on schedule. No major implementation problems have yet been encountered.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 24 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 399  West Java Thermal Power:  $46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet higher than estimated
equipment costs. Thereafter implementation proceeded smoothly. Both the 100
MW generating units are now in commercial operation. Arrangements are being
made to release retention payments. Disbursements are expected to be com-
pleted before the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  $41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The third 100 MW generating set at Muara Karang Thermal Power
Station was put into commercial operation in November 1980. The set is
operating satisfactorily. Disbursements are expected to be completed before
the target closing date (mid-1980) as forecast.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
All equipment required for the project has been ordered in three
lots within the cost estimate. By end 1980 about 90% of the disbursement
would be complete. However, construction work lags behind schedule. While
there has been good progress on construction of 20 kV cables, installation
of the associated substations is well behind schedule. This is due to
problems of acquisition of land which the Government has been requested to
assist in solving.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction of the fourth and fifth generating sets (200 MW each)
has been delayed mainly due to a misalignment of the center line of the
turbogenerator and power house foundations. There has been an inordinate
delay by the consulting engineer in finding an appropriate solution to the
problems. The fourth generating set is expected to be in commercial opera-
tion around May 1981, about 9 months later than the contract date, but only
3 months later than forecast at appraisal. Engineering of the Semarang 3
(Seventh Power) project and of the Java Interconnected system is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 41 -                   ANNEX II
Page 17 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts, except for general construction and steel work have
been awarded at highly competitive costs. A reduction in foreign costs of
about $30.0 million is presently expected. Delays in award of contracts
for civil works caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract
awards by the Government have resulted in a three-month delay in the tight
construction program. It will delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating
set which is now expected in August 1982.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is on schedule so far, towards a target of
commissioning of the unit in January 1984, which was the appraisal estimate.
Bids for turbine generator and auxiliary equipment were evaluated and a
letter of intent for the contract was issued in January 1980 as scheduled.
Bids for steam generator and auxiliary equipment are under evaluation.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This Loan has not yet been declared effective.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  $70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.



- 42 -                    ANNEX II
Page 18 of 24 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. The project
is projected to remain profitable.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This loan became effective last September and progress is satis-
factory.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
$10 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project consists of identifying and engineering much of an
optimum mining and transportation system to mine about 3.0 million tons per
year and ship about 2.5 million tons per year of coal to a power station which
is under construction at Suralaya in West Java. The project has experienced
some initial delays but is now progressing satisfactorily.



- 43 -                   ANNEX II
Page 19 of 24 pages
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
continues to show satisfactory results. Since 1972/73 the program targets
have been fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. The implementation of
the project is in its final stages. The construction of all buildings has
been completed and furniture and equipment procured, offices in Jakarta and
six provinces have been occupied and all provincial and subprovincial training
centers and nine nurse/midwife training schools are in operation. Most of the
population education activities have been completed and the remainder are
expected to be completed this year. The production of films and procurement
of a computer financed out of savings under this project will also be com-
pleted this year. The only delay expected will be in the training of secre-
taries and program managers, but this problem is expected to be resolved
shortly.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed, except
the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTCO which is currently being
constructed. Since the Bank is financing only four floors and common services
for the eight-storey NFPTC and office building, it has proposed that it reim-
burse the Government 65% of the total cost and is awaiting their response with
regard to the remaining 35%. All furniture has been procured and all vehicles
will be delivered shortly. There continues to be delay in implementation of
the pilot community incentive scheme, due to protracted discussions between
the Government and Bank on the form of the study. With the completion of the
ten Provincial Training Centers, it has become necessary for the National
Family Planning Coordinating Board to recruit trainers for these centers,
although difficulties are being experienced in finding qualified candidates.
Delays have occurred in the implementation of the population education
component due to changes in curricula; delays in the release of funds have
hampered the training of trainers for vocational schools. However, all the
population education activities are expected to be completed on schedule by
early 1981.
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This Loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 44 -                  ANNEX II
Page 20 of 24 pages
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory. Construction of the
Nutrition Academy has been completed and equipped and it is in full use. Its
student enrollment has increased from 100 to 160. The Nutrition Intervention
Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components, as well as the
fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The Food Technology
Development Center civil works construction is virtually complete and services
are being installed, and Wings I, II and staff housing of the Center for
Research and Develpment in Nutrition have been constructed and services are
being installed; Wing III proceeds according to plan. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date:  February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, and printing equipment required to produce maps is
installed. Resource evaluation activities, including the compilation of data
for Southern Sumatra and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of
coconut lands to be replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in
the new complex. Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior
operatives, has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian
parallel project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes
to have installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained
specialized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.



-45 -                 ANNEX II
Page 21 of 24 pages
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of
1,200 km are under way and the equivalent of 520 km were completed at the
end of 1979. Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for
contracts started in 1976; delays were also encountered in awards of contracts
scheduled for 1977. The 1978 devaluation also contributed to a slower
apparent rate of disbursement as cost adjustments to Rupiah construction
contracts are still in process. Remedial measures were taken in 1978/79 (and
others are planned) which have much improved the rate of physical progress,
particularly for a few contracts where performance was very slow; however,
project completion is still forecast at about 18 months beyond the loan's
present Closing Date. Project costs in US$ are likely to be within appraisal
estimates but Rupiah costs are up significantly due to the devaluation for
which local funds are available.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Delays have been encountered in awarding contracts for about
500 km of road works which were tendered in mid-1979, somewhat behind the
implementation schedule. The 300 km balance of road works was scheduled
for tendering in May 1980, nearly 10 months behind the schedule. Preparation
of development programs for eight provincial public works departments (DPUPs)
has also fallen behind, and other project components closely linked to, or
forming integral parts of, the DPUP programs, such as procurement of road
maintenance equipment and construction of major support works, are now about
one year behind schedule. Delays have occurred also in appointing consul-
tants, but these delays are less serious.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Although the delay in the appointment of a number of consultants had
caused a slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and dis-
bursements, progress has now been made in making effective consultant



- 46 -                 ANNEX II
Page 22 of 24 pages
contracts for sea transport planning (ISTS Team); for improving maritime
training (IMCO project); and for extending the contract for financial and
technical advisers to P.T. PANN, the project entity. Progress has also been
made by the new management of PANN and of the state shipping company, PELNI,
in their new roles and very encouraging financial results have been achieved
by applying cash control as proposed by consultants financed by the Bank. It
is likely though that only about 40% of the loan will be disbursed by the
December 31, 1980 Closing Date. Some of the major problems facing PANN in
acquiring and leasing ships are: (a) the effect of the 1978 devaluation of
the Rupiah; (b) continued overtonnage in the fleet; and (c) the reluctance of
the Government in undertaking a ship scrapping program and in enforcing its
safety and ship classification regulations. It is anticipated that the scope
of the loan will be broadened to include other than general cargo inter-island
ships and that an extension of the present Closing Date will be requested.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. Th
Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the impact of the 197
Rupiah devaluation, are 98% completed, and the Basin III civil works finance
by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 65% completed.
Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are 37% com-
pleted. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised construction
schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone overall
completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate the
full effect of delays on project cost. The Closing Date has been extended
by two years from December 31, 1979.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in
mid-1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e. roads) is schedule
for December 1981. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8%
in 1977 to 286,000 visitors and by a further 13% in 1978 to 328,000; the



- 47 -                  ANNEX II
Page 23 of 24 pages
trend continued in 1979 but the increase in the number of foreign visitors
has been modest due to re-emerging air access difficulties, particularly by
foreign carriers to Bali. Three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are
under consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made.
Construction of a first hotel at Nusa Dua is expected to start in 1980 for
completion by mid-1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040   Jakarta Urban Development:  $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The kampung improvement part of the project has been completed.
Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original plan of 1,980 ha.
The Klender sites and services component is about 99% complete. Of the total
number of 6,872 lots allocated to date, about 6,700 have been occupied.
Approximately 7,250 units are expected to be available by September 1980, at
which time the project would be substantially completed.
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha
in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant,
deep wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban
transport study for Jakarta under the technical assistance component, the
project progress is essentially complete. Upgrading costs for the program
have been within the appraisal estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in
Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 88 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting



- 48 -                    ANNEX II
Page 24 of 24 pages
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The loan
became effective on September 26, 1979. The kampung improvement is
proceeding satisfactorily in Jakarta and Surabaya but start-up delays of
eight to ten months had been evidenced in the implementation of solid waste
management and drainage programs. In the secondary cities, the kampung
improvement program is now proceeding snoothly following a six to eight
months start-up delay during the first year implementation period (April 1,
1979-March 31, 1980).
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the Closing Date has been extended by
eighteen months. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan was declared effective on February 29, 1980, five months
behind schedule. The main project is about six months behind schedule.
Design work is proceeding and procurement documents are being processed.
Tenders were called for an initial purchase of pipe and fittings and these
were opened in June 1980. Some other scheduled tenders may have to be
postponed because the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering (DSE) failed
to request sufficient government funds in the current fiscal year ending
March 31, 1981. DSE is exploring an alternative funding source to
circumvent this problem. DSE is overextended because of the extensive
water supply activity in Indonesia and the numerous aid offers and foreign
participation in the sector. It is at present in the process of increasing
its staff by 160 persons and also recruiting the services of a Resident
Management Specialist. It is to be hoped these two steps may help improve
its internal efficiency.



- 49 -                        ANNEX III
INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:             one year.
(b)  Project prepared by:                           Government of Indonesia
with UNESCO assistance.
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank:            February 1978.
(d) Date of first Bank mission to
consider project:                           March 1979.
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:    January 1980.
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:            July 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 December 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government shall, in consultation with the Bank, introduce
by June 30, 1982, in the fields of engineering, science, agricul-
ture and economics at the project universities a credit system of
course requirements and an alternative to the thesis requirement for
the Sarjana degree (para. 39);
(b) The Government shall introduce policies to improve the internal
efficiency and quality of the project universities in the four
selected fields and shall implement such policies within a timetable
agreed to between the Government and the Bank; an annual report on
progress will be submitted to the Bank (para. 39); and
(c) The Government shall obtain the consent of the author and publisher
of a textbook before reproducing it (para. 40).






t/
-,fAlffi E" >                                      D
t~~~~~Ml- .VTVl Xi= ; E:>+ng                      Q              3> r
'a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
'll',  ;  0:;.z4;. = ;-;|:;0'<  '3    t i~~~~T-     ( O";a    t
< a,-
, -, ,; 1. , ,,, : ,. ,.  a;
=  = =;   \;& 6S         tli g        i ;n;S ti t 3;         z
PAPUA NEW2UINENAN
-  ?   ;a   g i :' -   X '           <            T:,7   SlF    t a  7
; t; =ol =o;    w   ;.; = !- f 'lf :LA: = =;} n  !! . := 2 i. D    ;; S  i   !  !;~~~~~.
; z  e  i  t   ; -     v       C    <>) ( ti  -l; t  t. ~~~~~~~~~ 32
==='3 S s  ;0 v          g e                                 == === 0  a
; X    S       jX tE   X                            0Wbg wsrm 
_=~~~~~~~~~~                                                           -n      =: \        =  ;      t;
S  '   >'';'=    t  ( \  f      '  :  Li '  ==     08 gr,;g 2
a ' i i -2 !'t PAPUA ~~~~~~~~~~~~NEWGIEo.9  ;;t         



