Page  1
March 7, 2001
H.E.
Ing. Roberto Peña Durini
Minister of External Trade, Industrialization and Fisheries
Republic of Ecuador
Re: OTF Grant No. 24359 (Second Ozone Depleting Substances Phase 
Out Project) - Amendment
Excellency:
Please refer to the Ozone Project Trust Fund Grant Agreement dated October 17, 
2000 between the Republic of Ecuador (the Recipient) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) acting as Trustee of grant funds provided by 
Parties to the Montreal Protocol (the Montreal Protocol) on Substances that Deplete 
the Ozone Layer into the Ozone Projects Trust Fund (the OTF).
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent 
discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the OTF Grant Agreement as 
follows so as to: (i) implement Decision 30/6 dated March 31, 2000 of the Executive 
Committee of the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of Montreal Protocol on 
general principles for institutional strengthening projects; and (ii) streamline 
disbursement procedures.
Consequently, the OTF Grant Agreement is amended as follows:
1.
A new Section 3.05 is added to read as follows: 
"Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Sections 
3.01 and 3.04 of this Agreement, at all times during the execution of the Project, the 
Recipient shall take any action necessary or advisable to ensure that: (a) UGA 
exercises the overall responsibility for the coordination and implementation of Part 
B.4 of the Project; and (b) to that end, UGA is provided with adequate staffing, 
physical and financial resources.".
2.
A new Section 3.06 is added to read as follows:
"Section 3.06. The Recipient shall:
(a)
(i)
make available to UGA personnel and equipment financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant only for the task of eliminating ODS 
consumption and production; and
(ii)
appoint a high-level official in MICIP, acceptable to the Bank, to 
exercise the overall supervision of the performance of UGA and 
ensure that any action necessary or advisable is taken to comply 
with the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement;
(b)
not later than June 30, 2001, establish the necessary support structures 
for UGA, including an advisory panel or a steering committee of 
membership structure and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, such 
structures to involve the appropriate authorities of the Recipient and 
representatives of the private sector and non-governmental organizations, 
and
(c)
from time to time, report to the Bank measures taken and problems 
encountered as required by decision of the Executive Committee of the 
Montreal Protocol."
3.
The table in Paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 is modified to read as set forth in the 
Attachment to this letter.
4.
Paragraph A. 4 (b) of Schedule 1 is modified to read as follows:
"(b)
"Operational Costs" means UGA’s office equipment and materials; and".
Page  2
5.
A new Paragraph A. 4 (c) of Schedule 1 is added to read as follows:
"(c)
"Training" means UGA’s travel and per diem expenses, seminars, 
catalogues, programs and information dissemination under Part B of the Project.".
6.
A new Part B.4 of Schedule 2 is added to read as follows:
"4.
Provision of technical support to enhance the Recipient’s ability to deal 
with ozone protection issues, and in particular, to carry out:
(a)
any action necessary to ensure that UGA establishes a reliable 
system to collect and monitor data on ozone depleting substances, including 
exports and production; and
(b)
the preparation of annual work plans for UGA."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter will be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The 
provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date of this 
letter upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment 
letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Trustee of the
Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Country Director
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Roberto Peña Durini
Authorized Representative
Date: March 7, 2001
Attachment
Amount of the
   OTF Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subgrants under Part A
   3,270,000
100%
of the Project 
for the financing of 
Incremental Costs
(2)
Consultants’
     106,000
100%
services and training under
Part B of the
Project
(3)
Operational Costs
      30,000
90%
TOTAL
   3,406,000
Page  3
