RESTR I CTED
Report No. P-665
FILE       t
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION               z   W       X
OF THE                       '      XC
0 
PRESIDENT                     x
TO THE                                  >
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS                             C
ON A                                   C
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE MALAGASY REPUBLIC
FOR A
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 16, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Report and Recommendation of the President
to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Loan
to the Malagasy Republic for a Beef Cattle
Development Project
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $2.8 million to
the Malagasy Republic.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       In 1966, the Government of the Malagasy Republic requested
Bank/IDA assistance in financing beef cattle development in the Mid-
western region (Moyen Ouest). The project was prepared with the help
of FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program missions with participation of the
Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa. The appraisal mission visited
Madagascar in May 1968 and negotiations for the proposed loan were held
in Washington in December 1968. The Government was represented by a
delegation headed by Mr. Natai, Minister of Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment and Food.
3.       The proposed loan would be the third loan to the Malagasy
Republic by the Bank.  In addition, the Association has made two
credits. The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to the Malagasy Republic as at December 31, 1968:
Loan or
Credit                                                (us $ million)
Number   Year       Borrower        Purpose       Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
90 MAG  1966  Malagasy Republic  Road project           10.0         8.0
510 N4AG  1967 Malagasy Republic  Education         4.8               4.6
570 MAG  1968  Malagasy Republic  Road project      3.5               3.5
134 MAG  1968  Malagasy Republic  Road project             4.5        4.5
Total                                     8.3    14h.5
Total undisbursed                         8.1   12.5        20.6



- 2 -
4.      The slow rate of disbursement from the 1966 highway credit has
been due mainly to delays in the submission of withdrawal applications;
after a slow start, progress on the project itself is satisfactory.
Disbursements for the education loan are expected to increase rapidly after
award of the contract for construction of the school buildings in February
1969. The project is expected to be completed on time by mid-1973.
5.     lNo further lending operations are expected in this fiscal year.
Studies for the development of the Port of Tamatave, financed under Bank
technical assistance, may lead to a project in the course of FY 1970.
Both FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program missions and the Permanent Mission in
Eastern Africa are working to identify and prepare projects in the agri-
cultural sector for which Government could request assistance from the
Bank group. Among these are a possible irrigation project in the Lake
Aloatra region for the development of 6000 ha. of rice land and an agri-
cultural credit project. The Bank expects to be Executing Agency for road
feasibility studies currently under consideration by the UNDP.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.      Borrower:                  Malagasy Republic
Principal Beneficiary:     Ranch State Farm "Cmby4
Purpose:                   Dcvelopment of beef cattle ranches;
upgrading access trails to the ranches;
and improving the main stock routes from
the project area to market centers.
Amount:                    Various currencies equivalent to
$2.8 million.
Amortization:              22 years including a 9-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning on April 15, 1978 and ending
on April 15, 1991.
Interest rate:             6-1g0 per annum
Commitment charge:         3/4 of 1% per annum
Relending terms:           Government will lend part of the loan
proceeds to Ranch State Farm "Cnmby' on
the same terms as to interest and
repayment as the Bank's loan.
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:           11%



- 3 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.      A report on the project entitled "Beef Cattle Development
Project - Malagasy Republic "TO 684 B" is attached.
8.      The economy of Madagascar is traditionally based on animal
husbandry and rice. Large areas of grass land, a national herd estimated
at 9.6 million head, a relatively favorable climate, adequate water supply
and an absence of endemic diseases all favor the development of a modern
livestock industry.  However, very few cattle producers are aware of the
opportunities for commercial development and modern methods for developing
cattle have to be introduced. The importance of the proposed project is
that it would be the first major step towards a modern livestock industry.
9.      The project would organize and develop six beef cattle ranches,
four of them breeding-fattening ranches and two of them fattening ranches,
following the Australian tropical and subtropical pattern. The ranches
would be located in a thinly populated area with a high potential for
beef cattle production and close to Tananarive, the capital and largest
consuming center. One of the ranches would engage in breeding imported
Brahman bulls for improvement of local cattle and would serve as a center
for the production and distribution of legume seed for native grassland
improvement. The proposed project would also upgrade access trails to
the ranches and improve main stock routes by providing water points and
feeding facilities. Provision is also made in the proposed project for
admiiistrative and management services.
10.     The ranch development part of the project would be carried out
by the Ranch State Farm"'Cmbywvhich has been established by special decree
for the purpose. The ultimate objective is to transfer ranching to
private cattle men and the project is designed to permit such transfer,
the method and timing of which would have to be judged in the light of
progress with the project and the availability of suitable cattlemen.
The infrastructure part of tlhe proposed project would be carried out
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment and Food. The proposed project will be executed over a period of
six years - 1969 to 1974. Two breeding-fattening ranches would be
established in the first year, to be followed by two more in the second
year and two fattening ranches in the third year. W4ork on one breeding-
fattening ranch is already in progress with Government finance. It was
agreed during negotiations that costs incurred after appraisal, i.e.,
after May 1, 1968 iwould be recommended for reimbursement from the proceeds
of the proposed loan. This would amount approximately to $200,000.
11.     Only the contract for imported steel fencing posts and wire
(about $300,000) would be suitable for international competitive bidding.
By their nature, the breeding stock and seed for grass land improvement
have to be procured from specialized sources. The other imported items,
such as farm machinery and vehicles, the individual contracts for which
would not exceed $25,000, would be subject to competitive bidding among
local suppliers.



- 4 -
12.      The total cost of the project is estimated at $4.2 million equiv-
alent) of i.Thich the proposed loan would cover two thirds. One half of the
loan would be disbursed for foreign expenditure and one half for local.
In addition to financing the remaining one third of the cost of the project,
the Government would make an additional contribution by providing veterinary
services and land required for the project.
13.      As noted in paragraph 18 belo>Y, the Government has dra-n up a
Program of Major Operations designed to accelerate the rate of economic
development through a program of public investment directed particularly
toward the agricultural sector. This program appears Well conceived, but
as is pointed out in the recent economic report on the Mialagasy Republic,
the Government cannot be expected, despite its efforts to increase the
volume of its public savings, to cover more than 25 per cent of public
investment in this program out of local resources. At the same time many
of the key projects in this program have relatively small foreign ex-
change requirements so that external lenders Till need to cover some
portion of local currency expenditures if the program is to be adequately
financed. In these circumstances the proposed financing by the Bank of
local expenditures on the beef cattle development project, which is of
key importance in the program, seems fully justified.
PART IV - LBGAL IWSTRfTMENTS AND AUTHORITY
14.      The Draft Loan Agreemer.t between the Bank and Malagasy Republic,
the Draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Ranch State Farm "Omby"
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
15.      The Draft Loan Agreement conforms generally to the pattern of
agreements for similar projects. The principles governing the organi-
zation and management of the Ranch State Farm "Omby" have been set forth
in the basic decree governing the establishment of State Farms in general
and in the decree establishing "'Omby". Both decrees may be amended only
after approval of the Bank (Section 6.02(b) and (c) of the Loan Agreement).
To facilitate the supervision of the project, the most important of these
principles have been incorporated in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
In addition to the usual conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
loan and project agreements, effectiveness would be conditional upon the
execution, and acceptance by the Bank, of a subsidiary loan agreement
between the borrower and the Ranch State Farm "Omby" and the appointment
of a General Yanager of the "Omby" (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement).
PART V - TI-IE ECCNOIE
16.      A report on "The Econorm of the Malagasy Republict" dated
September 10, 1968 (No. AF-83) has been circulated to the Executive
Directors.
17.      Madagascar is the third largest island in the wzorld.  Population
distribution is very uneven and the average density is low. Agriculture



is the main economic activity (providing about 1/3 of GDP) and the main
exports are coffee, rice, vanilla, sugar and meat products. Industry
(11% of GDP) is limited to a few plants producing some of the mass
consumption products. There are no major minerals. The internal trans-
port system is an impediment to economic development as connections
between the various regions of the country are generally difficult.
18.      Economic grortJih has been fairly slowi. Incomes per capita have
been stationary in recent years because of the slow groi.th of exports,
a loW rate of public investment heavily concentrated on infrastructure,
and disappointing grow-th in the private sector due to the small internal
market. However, the Government is seeking to give new impetus to the
economy by substantially increasing public investment. A Program of
IHajor Operations has been prepared covering a number of large projects,
most of wiJhich could start about 1970. The Program puts particular
emphasis on agriculture, and wTithin this sector on livestock, which has
hitherto been largely neglected.
19.      Due to the probable decline in grant aid most of the additional
resources for investment *would have to come from foreign borrowndug and
public savings. The present 4% debt service ratio is quite modest and
leaves room for some borrowing on conventional terms; however, the
country's poverty (GDP per inhabitant is $100) and poor export prospects
for the next several years suggest that such borroiTng be limited in amount
and include reasonably long grace periods. In general, external financing
should be on concessionary terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
20.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan w-.ould conply iwith the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECO%ZENDATION
21.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the follo-ing
resolution:
RESOLUTIIT NO.
Approval of a Loan to the Malagasy Republic
in an amount equivalent to US $2,800,000
RE3OLVED:
That the Bank shall grant a loan to the lMalagasy
Republic in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
two million eight hundred thousand United States dollars



- 6 -
(US $2,800,000), to mature on and prior to April 15, 1991,
to bear interest at the rate of six and one-half per cent
(61j) per annum and to be upon such other terms axid con-
ditions as it shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Beef Cattle Development Project) between the
Malagasy Republic and the Bank and in the form of
r'rodect Agreement (Beef Cattle Development Project)
between the Bank and Ranch State Farm "Omby", which
have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
January 13, 1969



