RETUAN      TO                                 RESTRICTED
REPORTS       DESK                                 Report No.   TO-684b
WITHIN           rs tUr
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
January 8, 19f69
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Malagasy franc   =     US$ 0. 004
1 US dollar        =     FMG 250
FMG 1 million      =     US$ 4, 00-0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
AB BR EVIATIONS
FMG:            Malagasy franc
GNP:            Gros.s National Product
GDP:            Gross Dome.stic Product
NCSF:           National Committee of State Farms
OMBY:           Ranch State Farm



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY ..... . . . . . . . ..                                   i
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                 1
II. BACKGROUND.                                                  1
A. General .1.
B. The Beef Cattle Sector .              . .                2
C. Animal Health.                                           3
D. Agricultural Services.                                   3
E.  Governmental Policies on Livestock Development  . . .   4
III. THE PROJECT .4
A. General Features.                                        4
B. Project Area.                                            5
C. Detailed Features.                                       5
D.  Infrastructure Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
E.  Project Administration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
F.  Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
G. Proposed Financing  .1.0.. .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  10
H.  Disbursement and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  il
I. Procurement .... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  12
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
A. Project Organization and Management . . . . . . . . .   12
B. Marketing of Project Output ... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
V.    OPERATING RESULTS .... .     .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
(Continued)
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed
of Messrs. C.P. McMeekan (Consultant - Livestock Expert), M. van Gent (Bank -
Agriculturist), M. Hassid (FAO - Financial Analyst), and M. McGarry (Bank -
Young Professional), which visited Madagascar in May 1968.



Table of Contents (Cont'd):
ANNEXES
1.  Organization Chart - Ministry of Agriculture Rural Development
and Food
2.  Organization Chart - Ranch State Farm (OMBY)
3. State Farms
4. Marketing of Beef Cattle
5. Land Tenure
6. Physical and Financial Coefficients
7. Economic Rate of Return
8. Physical and Financial Tables
TABLE
1. Development of 20,000 hectare "State" Ranch (Breeding and
Fattening); On Ranch Investment Projections
2. Development of 20,000 hectare "State" Ranch (Breeding and
Fattening); Herd Development Projections
3. Purchase and Sales Projections for Breeding and Fattening
Ranches
4. Development of 20,000 hectare "State" Ranch (Breeding and
Fattening); Operating Expenses Projections
5. Financial Projections - 20,000 hectare "State" Ranch
(Breeding and Fattening)
6. Development of 20,000 hectare "State" Ranch (Fattening);
On Ranch Investment Projections
7. Fattening Ranch; Herd Model
8. Purchase and Sales Projections for Fattening Ranches
9. Development of 20,000 hectare "State" Ranch (Fattening);
Operating Expenses Projections
10. Financial Projections - 20,000 hectare "State" Ranch
(Fattening)
11. Development of 1,000 hectare "stud" Ranch and 200 hectare
Seeds Center
12. Development of Stud Ranch; Herd Development Projections
13. Purchase and Sales Projections for Stud Ranch
14. Development of 1,000 hectare stud Ranch and 200 hectare
Seeds Center; Operating Expenses Projections
15. Development of Infrastructure; Investment Cost Projections



Table of Contents (Cont'd):
TABLE
16.  Development of Infrastructure; Financial Projections
17. Administration Costs
18. Financial projections for four breeding/fattening ranches,
two fattening ranches, and one stud ranch and seeds center
19.  Financial Rate of Return
MAP






MALAGASY REPUBLIC
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of the Malagasy Republic has requested Bank/IDA
assistance in financing a beef cattle development project in the Midwestern
region (Moyen-Ouest) estimated to cost about US$ 4.2 million.
ii.       The project would pioneer a system of land use for beef production
new to Madagascar. It would introduce modern, commercial scale cattle ranch-
ing on a subtropical pattern to a country where current production methods
are extremely inefficient and, by demonstration, pave the way to much higher
productivity of the beef cattle industry.
iii.      The project consists essentially of five components:
- Development, initially under state control, of six
20-25,000 ha beef cattle ranches costing about
US$ 3.3 million;
- The organization of breeding and distribution of
high-grade herd bulls of the improved American type
Brahman breed costing about US$ 275,000;
- The organization of a seeds multiplication center for
production and distribution of seeds for the improvement
of native grasslands costing about US$ 20,000;
- Infrastructure improvement mainly of access trails,
and stock routes costing about US$ 195,000; and
- Project management costing about US$ 415,000 including
technical services.
iv.       Development of the ranches would be planned to facilitate modern-
type management and their eventual operation in 1,000 - 1,500 ha ranch units
by local cattlemen trained vithin the project.
v.        The major part of the project (ranching, bull breeding and seed
production) would be carried out by an entity set up for the purpose, the
Ranch State Farm "OMBY", operating under the general supervision of the
National Committee of State Farms (NCSF). The Ministry of Agriculture, Rural
Development and Food would be responsible for improving infrastructure.
vi.       The project benefits would be sizeable.  Net increase in cattle
production from the ranches would amount to FMG 138 million (US$ 550,000)
annually after 15 years. Direct benefits would accrue from improved stock
routes averaging about FMG 11.2 million (US$ 45,000) annually. Considerable
benefits would arise from the distribution of improved breeding stock and



- ii -
pasture seeds. The overall economic rate of return from the project would
be about 11%. The project could lead to widespread adoption of a modern
ranching system.
vii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 2.8 million,
repayable in 13 years after nine years of grace. The borrower would be the
Government of the Malagasy Republic, which would onlend part of the loan
to OMBY for ranch development and would channel the remainder for infra-
structure and administration to the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development
and Food.



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Malagasy Republic requested a Bank loan
or IDA credit to help finance a beef cattle development project in the Mid-
western region (Moyen-Ouest). The project is a pioneering phase of a long-
term pasture and livestock development program the objective of which is to
utilize the resources of cattle and grazing lands more efficiently through
the introduction of modern cattle husbandry and grass production practices.
The absence of a developed private producing sector dictates that Government
assume an entrepreneurial role at this stage in the expectation that the
project will provide a basis for stimulating subsequent private participation
in cattle production. The project was prepared with the assistance of an
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission with participation of IBRD Nairobi Office
in November-December 1966, and a follow-up FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mis-
sion in August 1967. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission composed of Messrs. C. P. McMeekan (Consultant - Livestock Expert),
M. van Gent (Bank - Agriculturist), M. Hassid (FAO - Financial Analyst) and
M. McGarry (Bank - Young Professional), which visited Madagascar in May 1968.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The island of Madagascar has an area of 594,000 square kilometers.
Climate and other physical conditions vary widely from the tropical climate
of the lowland coastal areas to drier subtropical conditions of the central
plateau where about 60% of the population of 6.2 million is concentrated.
Soils are for the most part poor and rainfall is markedly seasonal.
2.02      Agriculture provides employment for 88% of the labor force and
accounts for 32% of the GDP, estimated in 1966 at about FMG 170,000 million
(US$ 680 million). The average per capita cash income of the rural population
is about FMG 10,000 (US$ 40) per annum as compared vith an overall per capita
GNP of FMG 24,000 (US$ 97). The subsistence sector accounted for about 60%
of total agricultural output, 21% of total GDP and over 80% of the labor force.
2.03      Of the total exports in 1966 valued (fob) at about FMG 24,000 mil-
lion (us$ 96 million), about 90% were agricultural products, mainly coffee,
vanilla, rice and sugar. Exports of animals and livestock products including
hides and skins amounted to just over FMG 2,000 million (US$ 8 million) or
about 10% of the total. Beef cattle and beef products accounted for most of
this export trade.
2.04      Field crops are grown on about 5% of the total land area and con-
tribute 70% of the value of agricultural output, whereas grasslands comprise
57% of the land area but contribute only 23% of agricultural output. This



- 2 -
illustrates the extensive land use nature of the livestock industry. How-
ever, the large areas of grasslands, a large national herd (about 10 mil-
lion head of cattle), a relatively favorable climate and water supply and a
very favorable disease status are in principle favorable for the development
of a modern livestock industry. Within the context of livestock development
under the National Plan, the Government of the Malagasy Republic places a
high priority on the development of the Moyen-Ouest. This is an area of rela-
tively low human population and of a very high potential for beef cattle pro-
duction with definite prospects for development at less cost than other areas.
B. The Beef Cattle Sector
2.05      The country carries about 10 million head of beef and draft-type
cattle. These are distributed widely over the three main zones (see Map):
the West (mainly breeding), the Midwest (breeding and fattening) and the
Eastern zone, into which cattle move either for use as beef or as draft ani-
mals. Average herd size is small, about 15 head, with a marked variation in
the size and composition of individual herds.
2.06      All herds have equal access to land which results in a livestock
industry with no capital improvements and disregard of pasture management.
Burning of bush is ineffectively controlled and grazing is indiscriminate.
The overall carrying capacity is estimated to be about 1 adult animal to
10 ha, but actual carrying capacity varies according to the time of year and
state of the seasonal rainfall. With controlled burning and grazing it has
been demonstrated that all year round carrying capacities can be increased to
one animal to 3-3.5 ha.
2.07      The annual overall extraction rate for meat is only about 9%.
Because of high on-farm consumption the extraction rate as measured by the
animals commercially processed through slaughter-houses is under 2% of the
total herd. This very low figure reflects the relatively primitive level of
animal husbandry used and, in particular, the low birth rate (40-60%), the
high calf mortality (20-40%) and the slow growth rate to slaughter weight
(4-10 years).
2.08      The country is well suited to much more efficient beef cattle pro-
duction. Both total cattle number and per animal efficiency could be stepped
up considerably. Very few of the cattle producers are aware of the oppor-
tunities for commercial development or are, at this stage, interested in
fixed capital investment or property improvement; consequently, there is no
demand for development credit for beef cattle production. A more efficient
cattle industry can only be obtained by changes in the existing pattern of
cattle raising; new techniques have to be introduced. New approaches, such
as those included in the project, therefore may be expected to have an impact
on the modernization of the Malagasy cattle industry much beyond the limited
scope of the project itself.
2.09      Apart from the economic advantages of a more efficient industry,
increased production is essential to maintain the present relatively high
local consumption of beef of about 20 kg per capita (compared with about



- 3 -
10 kg in Kenya and Tanzania, less than 10 kg in Bolivia and Equador, and
around 25 kg in Western Europe). Human population is increasing at a rate of
2.1-2.5% annually, compared with the current herd size rate of under 1%.
In addition, there would also be possibilities for a considerable increase
in the present small export, equivalent to about 55,000 carcasses annually.
C. Animal Health
2.10      The animal health situation in Madagascar is exceptionally good.
Rinderpest, Foot-and-Mouth Disease and Pleuropneumonia which seriously affect
herds in Africa do not exist. The island is also free from Contagious Abor-
tion, Trypanosomiasis and East Coast Fever, a situation maintained by good
quarantine regulations.
2.11      Anthrax is widespread but is under control by systematic vaccination
in danger areas. Tuberculosis occurs in about 30% of the herds, and though
responsible for partial carcass condemnations, is no serious threat to pro-
duction. Internal parasites, a source of mortality and poor growth of young
stock, and skin diseases, can largely be controlled by drenching and dipping
respectively. Cattle ticks are widespread, but the native stock are rela-
tively immune to tick-borne fevers.  In summary, the major cattle scourges
are absent and the diseases responsible for economic loss are controlled or
controllable by modern techniques.
D. Agricultural Services
2.12      The Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Food is well
organized (Annex 1). Under the Minister there are three Secretaries of State,
each responsible for specific, ecologically defined zones. A Secretary
General is responsible for the operation of nine central services, of which
the most relevant to the project is the "Department of Animal Husbandry and
Marine Fishery", which covers both animal husbandry and veterinary services.
2.13      Headquarters (local) staff are vell qualified, young and keen.
Field staff in the project area are competent in general extension work in
animal production, but lack experience in cattle ranching techniques. For
the animal industry as a whole there are staff shortages in all categories,
a situation which the Government is taking steps to correct as rapidly as
possible through training and recruitment programs.
2.14      The Minister, Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Food,
has administrative responsibility for the creation of "State Farms", which
have the objective of introducing modern-type commercially oriented agri-
cultural operations to a country where most farming is still of the subsist-
ence type. Supervision of State Farms is the responsibility of the National
Committee for State Farms (NCSF), of which the Minister, Ministry of Agri-
culture is chairman (Annexes 2 and 3). Only six State Farms have been estab-
lished; only one has been in operation more than a year. The organization
is still in a state of flux.



- 4 -
2.15      A useful livestock research station exists at Kianjasoa near the
project area. This has already tested and measured the beneficial effect of
upgrading local cattle with imported Brahmans, legume introduction to native
grasslands, controlled grazing and good husbandry in the project area. All
four innovations are features of the project.
E. Governmental Policies on Livestock Development
2.16      General policies for the development of the livestock industry are
covered by the Plan Quinquennal, 1964-1968, now being brought up-to-date in
the new Five Year Plan, 1969-1974. In beef production, the Plan calls for
improvement of productivity at the producer level, modernization of meatworks
and processing plants, and raising of the commercial extraction rate.
2.17      Beef cattle prices are free from central Government control.   Prices
are negotiated among producers, traders and butchers, so that reliable, sys-
tematic price information is lacking all along the commercial chain (Annex 4).
Government action to improve marketing is being taken in the project area.
A cattle weigh-bridge is being installed at the Tsiroanomandidy market, the
largest in the country, to relate prices to liveweight and provide a basis
for continuing market information. Slaughter facilities are to be improved
at Tananarive and Majunga. An auction system of selling fat stock in
Tananarive is planned.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Features
3.01      The project is part of the long-term livestock development program
of the Governinent's National Development Plan (para 2.16). It is the first
step toward a concept of land use for modern beef cattle production, completely
new in Madagascar. It would organize and develop six cattle ranches (four
breeding/fattening and two fattening) following the Australian tropical and
subtropical pattern. One of these ranches would also engage in the breeding
of improved Brahman bulls for improvement of local cattle and in the produc-
tion of seed of the legume "'styîo0l" for pasture improvement. The project
would also provide essential infrastructure such as access roads and green-
belt?/ stock routes. Ranches would be approximately 20-25,000 ha each. They
would be owned and operated initially by the State, but development would be
planned so as to permit eventual subdivision for transfer to private ownership
and operation by producers trained within the project.
1/ Stylosanthes gracilis.
2/ A green-belt is a conventional stock route over which cattle are driven,
with facilities for the provision of pasture and/or hay all year-round.
It is called "green" simply because it can provide food for the cattle
on an all year-round basis.



- 5 -
3.02      No commercially oriented sector of the cattle industry exists among
producers. In this situation State involvement is essential as a pioneering
activity. Through its demonstration effects the project could set the stage
for widespread development of commercial ranching throughout Madagascar. It
is estimated that sufficient land for many thousands of 1,000 - 1,500 ha
ranches is readily available, though the scope for ranches each ten times
this size is limited due to land tenure problems (Annex 5). The 1,000 - 1,500
ha ranches are considered viable and would provide the farmer with a net annual
income of about FMG l40,000 (US$ 560), which is comparable with the target
income on a mixed cropping settlement project being executed in the same
area. The project, though limited in scale, could have far reaching effects.
3.03      Supporting action by the State, not requiring financing under the
project, but which would favor the project includes cadastral survey and
registration of titles of the proposed ranches, strengthening of cattle trad-
ing regulations, regulation of the use of stock routes, development of improved
marketing and slaughtering facilities in Tananarive, and improvement of the
cattle health services. Assurances vere obtained during negotiations that
Governnent would proceed with the cadastral survey at a pace corresponding
with the time schedule for establishment of the ranches and that regulations
for the use of the stock routes, satisfactory to the Bank, would be made.
B. Project Area
3.04      The ranches would be located in a very promising area in the Midwest
zone (see Map). They would be close to the largest consuming center, the
capital, Tananarive. At an altitude of 900 - 1,200 meters, the climate of
the project area is monsoonal. Rainfall averages 1,500 - 1,800 mm, 90% fall-
ing from November to March. The contour is easy. Flat tablelands are inter-
sected by extensive, well watered, shallow valleys. The land is all in natural
pasture of a usable type and capable of considerable improvement. Existing
population is small (about 700), isolated and involved mainly in subsistence
farming (Annex 5). Most of these subsistence farmers would be absorbed into
the project at cash wages.
C. Detailed Features
3.05      Two breeding/fattening ranches would be established during Year 1,
two in Year 2 and the two fattening ranches in Year 3. Investments would
extend over three years in each case, so that total disbursements would be
spread over five years.
3.06      Each breeding/fattening ranch would be planned and managed to build
up at full production (in Year 14) a self-maintaining breeding herd of 2,750
cows, a total herd size of 8,630 head and an extraction rate in fat cattle
and a surplus breeding stock of 20% per annum.  Foundation stock of local
cattle (1,500 head) would be graded up initially with improved Brahman bulls,
mainly imported, and later bred on one ranch (para 3.14). Improved nutrition
would be obtained by rotational grazing through fencing (20 paddocks) and



- 6 -
herding control, by improving pastures with proven legumes on about 40% of the
ranch area, and by conservation of surplus feed as hay for feeding during the
dry period. Calving would be seasonally controlled, cows being calved down
at the beginning of the wet period to relate stock needs to feed supplies.
All cattle would be managed in organized herds according to sex and age. A
modern cattle handling yard supported by four dispersed units would facilitate
essential procedures of separation of cattle into groups, weighing and se-
lection for disposal, branding, castration, weaning, and drenching and spray-
ing for parasite control. Until the output of the breeding herd is sufficient
(about Year 10), unfinished local steers would be purchased for fattening.
Over a 12-month period about 80 kg liveweight would be added to each animal.
3.07      Each fattening ranch would be planned and managed to build up a
herd of fattening cattle of about 6,500 head. Some 3,200 head of local steers
would be purchased annually to turn off about 3,150 fat animals, a selling
rate approaching 50%. Herd composition at any one time would comprise three
age groups: 2-3 years; 4-5 years; and over 5 years, purchased in approximately
equal proportions in the local cattle market of Tsiroanomandidy through which
60-80,000 head of stock flow each year. Purchases would be made toward the
end of the dry period. Grazing and herd management would be as on the breed-
ing/fattening ranches without the complication of the special needs of breed-
ing stock and young stock.
3.08      On-farm investments would be similar for all ranches. They would
comprise fencing, stock watering and handling facilities, access trails and
tracks, equipment for pasture improvement and fodder conservation, and farm
buildings including staff housing. Roads, tracks, fences, dams and ponds not
handled by ranch staff wauld be carried out under contract either by State
organizations (roads) or private contractors.
3.09      To ensure adequate management control of pastures and cattle and to
prevent invasion by stock from adjoining communally grazed areas, each ranch
would be enclosed by fencing. Each ranch would be subdivided into 1,000 -
1,500 ha blocks, planned to permit efficient use of land of different types
(valley and tableland), by cattle of different sex, age and type, and to
permit future subdivision into ranches of 1,000 - 1,500 ha. About 300 km
of fencing would be erected per ranch. Where practicable, trees would be
planted in internal fence lines for shade and post replacement. About 100
commercial units could result if the five ranches were eventually transferred
to private ownership (see para 3.16).
3.10      Water development for stock would be related to the subdivision
plan. Water costs would be relatively low due to the widespread availability
of permanent and semi-permanent surface water in valleys and in natural ponds
on the tablelands. Investments would concentrate on increasing the permanence
of these supplies by the enlargement of natural dams and deepening of natural
ponds. Some 15 improved water points per ranch would be necessary. Wherever
conditions are suitable, tableland pastures would be improved by using the
legume "stylo" which can be cheaply established by surface introduction with-
out fertilizers and which has been proven to add considerably to the quantity
and quality of herbage available during the annual dry period of about six
months in the project area. From 8,000 - 10,000 ha of this improved pasture
would be established per ranch.



- 7 -
3.11      Each ranch would be provided with sufficient mechanized equipment
for efficient management with respect to supervision, pasture improvement,
hay-making, maintenance of firebreaks and tracks, and the spraying of cattle
for control of cattle ticks. Equipment includes landrovers, pick-up trucks,
tractors, mowers, and hay rakes. Buildings would be limited to the bare
essentials of storage, working facilities, and staff housing. They would be
tailored to local conditions and local materials. Headquarters' buildings
would include houses as well as office, store, and garage. Herdsmen's cot-
tages (30 per ranch) would be strategically dispersed.
3.12      For the breeding/fattening ranches, finance provision would cover
the costs of local and imported commercial-type Brahman bulls for immediate
upgrading of local stock, a nucleus breeding herd of local Zebu females
(mainly heifers) and of unfinished cattle for fattening. Net requirements
of cattle for fattening would be financed only over the first three years of
operation of each ranch. Thereafter, cattle fattening would be self-financing.
Cattle purchased for breeding vould be a 'one shot' operation for each ranch.
3.13      Each ranch would be provided with short distance (100 km) radio
transmitters to facilitate close liaison between Ranch Managers who otherwise
would be too isolated for effective consultation. The Government would elim-
inate licenses and operating fees so that ranch budgets would not be charged
for their use. Currently, these costs render this communication system un-
economic. During negotiations Government gave assurance that arrangements
acceptable to the Bank would be made to facilitate radio communications
between Ranch Managers vithout cost to OMBY budgets.
3.14      Specialized bull breeding and seed production would be organized
as a service to the project ranches and would later also serve interested
farmers. To save on management and overheads, these functions would be added
to the normal commercial activities of one of the breeding/fattening ranches
to which additional land (up to 2,000 ha) would be provided. In-calf pedigree
Brahman heifers (150) and bulls (5) would be imported to establish the stud
which would be built up vithout further imports (except for occasional stud
bulls) to a pedigree herd of 500 cows. Stylo seed sufficient to establish a
seed production area of 200 ha (800 kg), and to permit the immediate improve-
ment of 2,000 ha on each projeet ranch during Year 1 (3,200 kg), would also
be imported.
3.15      This ranch would be retained by the State to provide a continuing
center for training, demonstration and sale of improved bulls and seeds for
industry improvement. From the outset it would also undertake specialized
training of potential small ranch operators in cooperation with the technical
staff of the Ministry of Agriculture who would provide lecture courses and
instruction as and when these are warranted.
3.16      Several alternatives vould be considered by Government in respect
to the objective of transferring the five remaining ranches to private oper-
ators. These would include: (a) phased transfer of some units even before
the ranches have repaid their loan commitments; (b) deferment of transfers
until the loans have been repaid; and (c) retention even beyond this stage to
permit the ranches to provide both a base and an organization to settle cattle-
men on 1,000 - 1,500 ha units outside the project ranch areas. The method of



- 8 -
choice and its timing would depend upon the performance of the project both
in production and financial terms, the availability of suitable cattlemen and
on financial considerations. Bank/IDA might be requested to assist in financ-
ing ranch settlement as a follow-up stage in cattle development. Before
negotiations the Government provided the Bank with a "statement of intent"
in respect to future private operation. During negotiations the Govern-
ment gave assurances that the timing, method and financing of this transfer
would be submitted to the Bank for discussion prior to execution and that no
transfer or alienation of the ranches would occur prior to Bank approval.
D. Infrastructure Development
3.17      The project would upgrade trail access to the ranches from the local
marketing center of Tsiroanomandidy (see Map). Improvement is also proposed
in the main stock route to Tananarive from Tsiroanomandidy by the provision
of eight new water points over the 250 km route. This would involve not only
water but establishment of 500 - 1,000 ha of improved pasture per point from
which hay would be cut for feeding stock in transit to minimize weight losses.
Four similar water/hay units are proposed between the most distant ranches
and Tsiroanomandidy. These improved stock routes would not only assist the
project but would improve the efficiency of transit of the 60-80,000 head of
cattle moving annually from Tsiroanomandidy to Tananarive. By example, they
could set the pattern for similar development throughout Madagascar with
considerable benefit to the cattle industry. Transit losses of up to 50 kg
per head occur throughout most of the country through lack of such facilities.
The infrastructure would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture.
All investment costs would be charged to the project.
E. Project Administration
3.18      Administration of the ranching aspects of the project involves costs
in excess of those normally associated with commercial ranching. It would be
necessary to provide a small headquarters supervisory staff in Tananarive led
by a General Manager experienced in ranch development and management including
financial administration. The four breeding/fattening ranches would require
men of similar calibre and specialized experience. Recruitment from outside
Madagascar, with its attendant high costs, would be necessary. The expatriate
General Manager would be maintained five years and the four expatriate Ranch
Managers three years each during the development period of the project.
Government has indicated that it fully realizes this need. Since these Ranch
Managers and the headquarters organization would be engaged in introducing
new techniques to the country and organizing a long-term program of livestock
development, it is proposed to charge the administrative costs of the head-
quarters organization and expatriate Ranch Managers to a separate adminis-
tration budget and not against individual ranch budgets. The expatriate
staff and the local administration costs have been considered separately
(see Annex 8 Tables 17A and B). After the 5 year development period, the
headquarters costs would be charged against ranch budgets. They have
accordingly been included in the consolidated financial projections of the
ranches (see Annex 8 Tables 18 and 19).



- 9 -
F. Cost Estimates
3.19      The investment capital and working capital required to execute the
project are set out in the following table. The foreign exchange component
of investment costs is also shown. Cost estimates are based on experiences
with recent developments on the livestock research station at Kianjasao and
on recent prices for equipment and construction as experienced in Government
financed projects.   Costs are reasonably in line with those of similar projects
in East Africa. As estimates are considered to be full and accurate, contin-
gencies generally have been allowed for as low as 10%.
Foreign
Exchange
Cost in      Equivalent      Component
Item                       FMG '000     in US$ '000     US$ '000
a)  Ranch Development
i)  Six Ranches
Fences, roads and tracks          111,600          446            333
Water                              10,800           43             28
Handling, yards, etc.              18,600           74             23
Farm buildings                     41,400          166             69
Machinery and vehicles             37,680          151            143
Livestock                         282,280        1,129            119
Pasture establishment              30,720          123             73
Contingencies                      58,920          236             -
Subtotal                     592,000        2,368           -78
ii)  Stud Ranch                         60,740          243            213
iii)  Seeds Center                        4,34o           17             15
Contingencies                       6,470           26              9
Subtotal                      71,550          2              237
Total                        663,550        2,654          1,025
b) Infrastructure
Access;trails to ranches                  4,000           16              9
Stock routes                             32,000          128             78
Contingencies                             4o000           16             10
Total                        -b-,ooo          160             97
c) Administration (5 years)
Development costs                        62,825          252            252
Local administration costs               23,100           92              4
Contingencies                             5,775           23             20
Total                         91,700          367            276
d) Net Working Capital 2/                   257,510        1,030             -
TOTAL COST                 1,052,760        4,211          1,398
1/ Total foreign exchange equivalent to about 44% of total project costs
(excluding net working capital).
2/ Represents the cash deficit and interest for the initial seven years of
Ranch Development and the interest for the initial five years of Infra-
structure and Administration.



- 10 -
G. Proposed Financing
3.20      The overall project cost of about Us$ 4.2 million would be financed
as follows:
Administration and
Ranch Development                Infrastructure
Investment  Net Working         Investment                     Grand
Source        Costs      Capitalf/   Total    Costs     Interest2/  Total  Total
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  (US$ 1OOO)  - -   - -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - 
Government      319         950      1,269       62         80       142   1,411
(12%)                           (12%)                       (34%)
Bank          2,335          -       2,335      465         -        465   2,800
(88%)         _                 (88%)                       (66%)
Total       2,654         950      3,604      527         80       607   4,211
1/  Represents cash deficit and interest for the initial seven years from
the start of construction.
2/ Represents interest during the 5-year development period.
3.21      The Government's contribution of 34% of project cost would be pro-
vided from budgetary sources. The Government would provide OMBY with the
funds necessary to initiate the ranch development and cover its contributions
to the project. It would provide the Ministry of Agriculture with necessary
budgetary allocations to cover administration costs and infrastructure
development.
3.22      The Bank loan would be for US$ 2.8 million to the Governnent, which
would onlend US$ 2.335 million to OMBY at 6.5% interest, reimbursable over
13 years after a grace period of 9 years. These terms would be the same as
those for the Bank loan. The coverage for debt service of OMBY, as shown in
Annex 8 Table 18, does not constitute a proper safety margin (especially in
Years ll and 12). In this case, however, with a subsidiary loan to a Govern-
ment enterprise it is considered acceptable that Government covers any even-
tual deficit during the critical build-up period. The balance of US$ 465,000
would be channeled to the Ministry of Agriculture for infrastructure and
administration costs. The loan would cover 88% of investment costs or 66%
of project costs including working capital. Phasing of project expenditure
would be as f ollows:



- 9 -
F. Cost Estimates
3.19      The investment capital and working capital required to execute the
project are set out in the following table. The foreign exchange component
of investment costs is also shown. Cost estimates are based on experiences
with recent developments on the livestock research station at Kianjasao and
on recent prices for equipment and construction as experienced in Government
financed projects.   Costs are reasonably in line with those of similar projects
in East Africa. As estimates are considered to be full and accurate, contin-
gencies generally have been allowed for as low as 10%.
Foreign
Exchange 1/
Cost in      Equivalent      Component
Item                       FMG '000     in US$ '000     US$ '000
a)  Ranch Development
i)  Six Ranches
Fences, roads and tracks          111,600          446            333
Water                              10,800           43             28
Handling, yards, etc.              18,6o0           74             23
Farm buildings                     41,400          166             69
Machinery and vehicles             37,680          151            143
Livestock                         282,280        1,129            119
Pasture establishment              30,720          123             73
Contingencies                      58,920          236             _
Subtotal                     592,ooo        2,368            788
ii)  Stud Ranch                         60,740          243            213
iii)  Seeds Center                        4,340           17             15
Contingencies                       6,47O           26              9
Subtotal                      71,550          286            237
Total                        663,550        2,654          1,025
b) Infrastructure
Access,trails to ranches                  4,000           16              9
Stock routes                             32,000          128             78
Contingencies                             4,000           16             10
Total                         40,000          160             97
c) Administration (5 years)
Development costs                        62,825          252            252
Local administration costs               23,100           92              4
Contingencies                             5,775           23             20
Total                         91,700          367            276
d)  Net Working Capital                     257,510        1,030            _
TOTAL COST                 1,052,760        4,211          1,398
1/ Total foreign exchange equivalent to about 44% of total project costs
(excluding net working capital).
2/ Represents the cash deficit and interest for the initial seven years of
Ranch Development and the interest for the initial five years of Infra-
structure and Administration.



- 10 -
G. Proposed Financing
3.20      The overall project cost of about Us$ 4.2 million would be financed
as follows:
Administration and
Ranch Development                Infrastructure
Investment  Net Working         Investment                      Grand
Source        Costs      Capital!/  Total     Costs     Interest!/ Total   Total
-…-…----------               US$OOO)… - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Government      319         950      1,269        62         80       142   1,411
(12%)                           (12%)                        (34%)
Bank          2,335          -       2,335       465         -        465   2,800
(88%)        _                  (88%)                       (66%)
Total       2,654         950      3,604       527         80       607   4,211
1/  Represents cash deficit and interest for the initial seven years from
the start of construction.
2/ Represents interest during the 5-year development period.
3.21      The Government's contribution of 34% of project cost would be pro-
vided from budgetary sources. The Government would provide OMBY with the
funds necessary to initiate the ranch development and cover its contributions
to the project. It would provide the Ministry of Agriculture with necessary
budgetary allocations to cover administration costs and infrastructure
development.
3.22      The Bank loan would be for US$ 2.8 million to the Government, which
would onlend US$ 2.335 million to OMBY at 6.5% interest, reimbursable over
13 years after a grace period of 9 years. These terms would be the same as
those for the Bank loan. The coverage for debt service of OMBY, as shown in
Annex 8 Table 18, does not constitute a proper safety margin (especially in
Years 11 and 12). In this case, however, with a subsidiary loan to a Govern-
ment enterprise it is considered acceptable that Government covers any even-
tual deficit during the critical build-up period. The balance of US$ 465,000
would be channeled to the Ministry of Agriculture for infrastructure and
administration costs. The loan would cover 88% of investment costs or 66%
of project costs including working capital. Phasing of project expenditure
would be as follows:



- il -
Year         1        2       3       4       5       6        y   Total
- - - - - - - - - - - - 7US$   0007) - - - - - - - - - - - -
Government     184      256     292     261     192     158      68    1,411
Bank          _ 861     793     739     279     128               _    c,O 
Total     1,045   1,049    1,031     540     320     158      68    4,211
3.23      liot included in project costs are import taxes and duties for invest-
ment items, and veterinary services normally provided by Government. These
costs, along with the Government land for the project, with an assessed value
of about FMG 400 million (Us$ 1.6 million), which would be made available
withouit charge, are an additional Government contribution.
3.24      Work on the preparatory stages of the project (one breeding/fatten-
ing ranch) is already in progress with Government finance. Investment expendi-
tures had reached US$ 63,600 at time of appraisal. Retroactive financing of
these costs is not contemplated. It is pronosed that costs incurred after
appraisal (May 1, 1968) would be reimbursed. Up to December 1968, it is esti-
mated that about US$ 200,000 might be eligible for reimbursement retroactively.
H. Disbursement and Auditing
3.25      The Treasury would submit approved documentation for disbursement
of investment costs of on-ranch development certified by the General Manager,
OMBY, and for infrastructure and administration costs certified by the
Secretary General, Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Food.
The amount of the proposed loan would cover 88% of all investment costs,
(excluding taxes) for ranching development, administration and infrastructure.
Since taxes vould not be reimbursable from the proposed loan, withdrawals
from the loan account would be 80% of the costs, including taxes, of invest-
ments for ranch development, administration and infrastructure. Working
capital and interest vould not be financed from the Bank loan.
3.26      The accounts of OMBY would be audited annually by the Government
auditor responsible for audit of accounts of State Farms under the decrees
governing their operations. This procedure would be satisfactory. The Bank
would receive copies of the audit reports.



- 12 -
I. Procurement
3.27      International competitive bidding procedures would be required for
the purchase of imported steel fencing posts and wire (approximately US$ 300,000).
Imported pedigree breeding stock (approximate:ly US$ 320,000) are not suited to
such procedures due to their limited origin and specialized character. This
applies also to imported seeds for which there is only one source available
(Australia). All other imports (mainly farm machinery, vehicles and other
equipment), none of which would exceed US$ 25,000 per contract, would be sub-
ject to local competitive bidding. Adequate :local representation of inter-
national firms exists to ensure effective competition.
3.28      Private contractors are available for building construction, build-
ing of fences, and improvement of water supplies. Contracts for these items
would be concluded after local competitive bidding. The Ministry of Agriculture,
Rural Development and Food would contract with the Ministry of Public Works
for upgrading ranch access trails. Since local female cattle are widely dis-
persed, contracts would be made with traders to supply at agreed prices.
Cattle for fattening would be purchased at the Tsiroanomandidy market.   Sup-
plies would be adequate. No undue pressure on local cattle prices is antici-
pated.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Management
4.01      The six proposed ranches of the project would be organized as a
public establishment, the Ranch State Farm (OMBY), established by decree.
OMBY would have a high degree of autonomy and would be managed by a General
Manager under the general supervision of the National Committee of State Farms
(NCSF), which was created by decree No. 66-490 (Annexes 2 and 3).
4.02      Decree No. 66-490 relative to the establishment of State Farms is
not clear. It leaves many questions open and is not adapted to the special
requirements of this project. The Government would either need to modify
this decree or make a new decree in order to legalize management of the
ranches as set out hereunder (paras 4.03-4.06). During appraisal, Government
indicated its willingness to meet project organization and management require-
ments of the type proposed by appropriate changes in current legislation.
Assurance was given by Government during negotiations that a new decree
covering the organization, management and operations of OMBY would be
issued.
4.03      OMBY would be headed by a General Manager; during the construc-
tion period (5 years) the General Manager would have an Assistant General
Manager (local). The General Manager would be appointed by order of the
Minister of Agriculture and would be responsible to the Minister. îqis salary



- 13 -
and emoluments would be charged against the budget of the Ministry of Agri-
culture.!L/ His qualifications, terms of reference, and conditions of employ-
ment would be approved by the Bank, which would assist the Government in
locating suitable candidates. This procedure would apply also to the four
expatriate Ranch Managers, each of whom would be appointed by the General
Manager, OMBY, for three years and would be supported by Assistant Ranch
Managers (local). The Assistant General Manager (local) and the four
Assistant Ranch Managers (local) would be trained with a view to their
taking over after the expatriates leave, if found to be qualified.
4.o4      The NCSF would have specific responsibilities for: (a) approval of
Special Regulations (Cahier des Charges Speciales) and any amendments thereof,
and (b) approval of the audited annual accounts of OMBY.
4.05      The Minister of Agriculture, Chairman of the NCSF, would be respon-
sible for: (a) the preparation of the decree of establishment of OMBY; (b)
arranging with the Ministry of Finance and Commerce that a special Project
Account in the name of OMBY is opened on the books of the Treasury Department
into which the Government contribution, Bank loan disbursements and OMBY
income would flow and from which OMBY costs would be paid, and to which the
General Manager would have direct operational access; (c) appointment of the
General Manager and Assistant General Manager of OMBY (subject to Bank ap-
proval); (d) approval of the investment program of OMBY; (e) approval of the
annual operating budget of OMBY; and (d) the execution of the decisions of
the NCSF.
4.o6      The General Manager of OMBY should, within the framework of the
approved budget, be completely free to run OMBY along private enterprise
lines. He would be responsible to The Minister of Agriculture for: (a) drawing
up annual budgets of investments and operating costs for the ranching, bull
breeding and seed production aspects of the project; (b) supervising all facets
of ranch development and operations; (c) supervising all expenditures (but
with power to delegate to Ranch Managers authority to operate on the OMBY
account in Treasury Department where necessary, for local stock purchases and
day-to-day operational expenses); and (d) marketing the output of ranches.
He would set up a system of budget control and cost accounting to provide an
on-going record of the financial performance of each ranch, for which separate
accounts would be kept. He would also be responsible for management of the
specialized services of bull breeding and seed production for which he would
submit separate budgets and keep separate accounts.
4.07      The General Manager would need to be a man with considerable admin-
istrative, financial and managerial experience in organizing and controlling
commercial enterprises of the kind envisaged. Practical ranching experience
would be desirable. He would need to be fluent in French. The Ranch Managers
(breeding/fattening) would be people with considerable ranching experience in
tropical or subtropical pastoral areas. They would be good cattle husbandmen
as well, competent in ranch development including pasture improvement and farm
1/ During the construction period of the project financed by the proposed
Bank loan.



- 14
budgeting.L/ (Possible sources would be Australia--Queensland and Northern
Territory; Argentina--Corrientes and Entre Rios; and the Southwestern U.S.).
During negotiations assurances were obtained that prior to appointment,
Bank approval would be obtained with respect to personnel selected, their
terms of reference and conditions of employment; likevise assurances were
obtained in respect to local recruitment of the Assistant General Manager and
Assistant Ranch Managers.
4.o8      The Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Food would under-
take the execution of the infrastructure aspects of the project (ranch access
trails and stock routes) and would make appropriate budgetary allocations for
this purpose. It has the necessary competence and facilities to do so, having
undertaken similar activities already. It would also provide back-up technical
services.
B. Marketing of Project Output
4.09      Fat cattle (steers and cull cows) from OMBY would be sold at the
General Manager's discretion to traders and butchers at the Tsiroanomandidy
market, to wholesale or retail butchers in Tananarive, or to "Sevima", the
processing factory at Tananarive. Long-term contracts might be arranged to
ensure continuity in marketing at minimum costs. Surplus breeding stock (male
and female) would be sold at the Tsiroanomandidy market which is the largest
cattle trading center in the country. Prices used (Annex 6) are current prices
for the classes of animals concerned. If anything, they are on the low side
in view of future market prospects for beef (Annex 4).
4.10      New modern meatworks for both local consumption (best cuts) and
canning have been erected by a long established foreign owned firm, "Sevima".
The Government proposes to erect a modern municipal slaughterhouse to replace
the existing outmoded plant and is currently seeking FED (Fonds Europeen de
Developpement) financial support. In the Majunga zone on the west coast, a
French mission recently appraised a project to establish both cattle fattening
and processing of meat for export. While these new proposals are not essential
to the marketing of project beef, they would assist by increasing competition
for cattle. Annex 4 describes the marketing system in more detail.
V. OPERATING RESULTS
5.01      The financial rate of return on the four breeding/fattening ranches
would be about 10%, on the two fattening ranches about 9.5%, resulting in an
overall financial rate of return on the six ranches of slightly under 10%.
This appears to be a satisfactory rate for a project of this nature.
1/ Special courses in French might have to be arranged.



- 15 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The internai rate of return to the economy from the project over
its assumed life time of 20 years would be about 11% (Annex 7). This rate
reflects the costs, price and physical assumptions underlying the financial
calculations. However, costs are adjusted to better reflect opportunity
costs. The opportunity cost of labor is estimated at 25% of wages, and social
charges are excluded since they are a cost to the economy even in the absence
of the project. The production of beef foregone by including the local cattle
in the project was taken into account and the increase in cattle production
due to the improved stock routes and Brahman bulls sold from the Stud Ranch
was also accounted for.
6.02      The principal direct benefits from the project would be an increased
production of beef valued at FMG 138 million (US$ 550,000) annually at full
development in about 15 years. In addition, 2,000 heifers and 500 bulls of
superior quality would be available for distribution each year. Even at
commercial beef prices, their annual value would approximate FMG 32 million
(US$ 128,000). Annual benefits from improved stock routes would total
FMG 11.2 million (US$ 45,000).
6.03      In addition to the benefits specified above, there would be other
benefits which are not quantifiable. The project would demonstrate the
benefits of better management practices and would be the first step in trans-
forming the present livestock industry from a static to a dynamic state. The
in-service training of the Assistant General Manager, OMBY, the Assistant
Ranch Managers and field assistants would provide qualified staff and operators
for future beef ranching development schemes in the Malagasy Republic.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The project is technically sound and economically justified.   The
project is suitable for a loan of US$ 2.8 million to be disbursed over five
years.
7.02      The borrower would be the Government of the Malagasy Republic.
Proceeds of the loan would be channeled through the Ministry of Finance and
Commerce to the executing agencies - OMBY and Ministry of Agriculture, Rural
Development and Food.
7.03      The loan would contribute 66% of total project cost, the balance
being provided by the Government.
7.o4      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
of the Malagasy Republic would:
(i) proceed with the cadastral survey of the ranches at a
pace corresponding with the schedule of establishment
of the six ranches (para 3.03);



- 16 -
(ii) institute regulations by 1973 for the use of the stock
routes satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.03);
(iii)  make arrangements acceptable to the Bank to facilitate
radio communications between Ranch Managers without
cost to OMBY budgets (para 3.13);
(iv) discuss the timing, method, and financing of transfer
of the ranches to private operators with the Bank prior
to execution and that no transfer or alienation of the
ranches would occur prior to Bank approval (para 3.16);
(v) take necessary action satisfactory to the Bank that would
set up OMBY to permit the appropriate organization and
operation of OMBY (para 4.02); and
(vi)  obtain Bank approval prior to appointment, with respect
to personnel, terms of reference and conditions of
employnent of the General Manager and Assistant General
Manager, OMBY, and Ranch Managers of the breeding/fattening
ranches to be employed from outside Madagascar during the
construction period as well as the qualifications of
locally recruited Ranch Managers and Assistant Ranch
Managers (para 4.07).



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND FOOD
MINISTER
| ERETARY OF STATE |  SCRETARY OF STATE | |SECRETARY OF STATE|
CABINET              |    ZONE EAST  ||ZONE HALUTS PLATEAUX | |  ZONE WEST
SECRETARY GENERAL  -
.  DEPARTM ENT OF  |DEPARTMENT OF     DEPARTMENT OF     DEPARTMENT OF
AND          HYDRAULICS AND  WTRAND SOREST     ANMLHANDR
PAYSANNAT       RECLAMATION       CONSERVATION     MARINE FISHERY
F000 SUVVLT  TOPOVRAPRICAL  CEN~~~~ENTRA L  NRLARCULTURAL                 OGRICIJLTURAL     AGRICULTURAL   PLRANO FUAVTRN
STABILIZATION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A)MNSTATO  PRVEOGRA MENTIO  ECEN TER IONRE PLAN E N|O        HYR AULA TICS l |S4  OSRAIO       NML
SERVICE          SERVICEDI                         VICE         C   RRVICE         SERVICE           SERVICE       AND  SERES     1     SERVICE
5E V .ES _ n X O  V SIGN L  Ag  C0L 1URAL  L X 6ERVICES
LAND TENURE       CADA iTRAL           _STATE FARMSO   _ AGRICULTURAL  _    PROVINCIAL        SERVICE                           SERVICE
SERVICE                                 DIVISION       COLLERES            SERVICE                            SERVIRC
LIAISON BUREAU FOR
PNTERMINISTERIAL  TRAINING
AND INTERNATIONAL  CENTERS
AND INTERNATIONAL  CENTERS
ORVAN NIZ ATIONS 
JUNE 1968                                                                                                                                        (3R)IBRD-3930






MALAGASY REPUBLIC
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
RANCH STATE FARM '"OMBY"
NATIONAL COMMITTEE OF STATE FARMS (NCSF)
STATE FARMS DIVISION
CHAIRMAN: MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE                                    IN MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
FOR OTHER MEMBERS: SEE ANNEX 3
OMBY
GENERAL MANAGER
ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY
MECHANIC
DRIVER
BREEDING/FATTENING         B REEDING/FATTENING        B REEDING/FATTENING        B REEDING/FATTENING  |       FATTENING RANCH I  |  |FATTENING RANCH I1
RANC i                     RANCH II                   RANCH mI                  RANCH =
MANAGER                                                                          MANAGER
ASSISTANT MANAGER                                                                CLERK
CLERK                                                                            2 HEAD STOCKMEN
2 HEAD STOCKMEN                                                                  ASSISTANT MECHANIC
ASSISTANT MECHANIC                                                               5 DRIVERS
5 DRIVERS                                                                        30 STOCKMEN
30 STOCKMEN                                                                      5 LABORERS
5 LABORERS
STUD RANCH ANC
SEED CENTER
ASSISTAN, MANAGER
HEAD STCCKMAN
DRIVER/MECHANIC
2 STOCKMEN
2 L.AB0RERq
z
z
x
July 1968                                                                                                          (R)IBRD-3983 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R BD-38






ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATE FARMS
The establishment of State Farms is defined in Decree No. 66-490
of November 29, 1966, modified by Decree No. 67-200 of May 17, 1968. The
basic features of this Decree are the following:
(a)  The State Farms are public establishments proposed as
private commercial enterprises. They are created by decree.
(b) The State Farms are placed under the tutelage of the
Minister of Agriculture.
(c) The operations of the State Farms are supervised by a
National Committee under the chairmanship of the Minister
of Agriculture and having the following composition:
- The Director of the Office of the President or his
representative,
- The Minister of the Interior or his representative,
- The Minister of Finance and Commerce or his representative,
- The Minister of Infrastructure Development and Communica-
tions or his representative,
- The Minister of Industry and Mining or his representative,
- The General Commissioner for the Development Plan or
his representative,
- The General Commissioner for Cooperation or his repre-
sentative,
- The Director General of the Ministry of Agriculture or
his representative.
(d) A Manager appointed by order of the Minister of Agriculture
shah exercise all the administrative, financial and
technical functions necessary for the conduct of the State
Farm. He shall be bound by a schedule of conditions and
specifications (cahier des charges) drawn up for each farm
by the National Committee and approved by the Minister of
Agriculture.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(e) The investment programs for the State Farms are prepared
by the Ministry of Agriculture, definitely adjusted by
the National Committee, and submitted to the approval of
the Minister of Agriculture. The Manager of the State
Farm will draw up an annual report and operating account
and transmit these documents to the Minister of Agriculture.
(f) Administrative and financial supervision of the State
Farms may be exercised by the State Inspection Office
(Inspection d'Etat), Financial Control Office (Controle
Financier), the Chiefs of Provinces and also by the
Prefectures. The Minister of Finance shall appoint a
Government auditor to supervise the whole of the State
Farms.
The present decree leaves many questions open: the most important
with regard to the Beef Cattle Development Project are:
(a) The relative responsibilities of the Minister of
Agriculture and the National Comnmittee are not suffi-
ciently defined nor are the responsibilities of each
member of the National Committee.
(b) The financial position and the liberties to handle funds
of the State Farms are not sufficiently defined and
appear to be inadequate to permit a management similar
to that of a private enterprise.
(c) The technical administrative and financial control is
too complicated and spread over too many organizations.
The State Farm Division in the Ministry of Agriculture prepares the
legislation, decrees of establishment and the schedules of conditions and
specifications (cahiers des charges) for the State Farms. The division has,
however, only a very limited experience with State Farms, since the first of
the six farms existing now was only established in February 1967 and no annual
reports and accounts have yet been submitted.
The Ministry of Agriculture and the State Farm Division in particular
are avare of the many deficiencies in the present legislation and appear pre-
pared to accept any suggestions from the Bank for improvement of the legal
and administrative basis of the State Farms.  The Government is avare of the
special organizational and management requirements of this project. No dif-
ficulties were envisaged in modifying the existing decrees to permit the project
to operate as planned.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARKETING OF BEEF CATTLE
1.        The trade in cattle in Madagascar is exhaustively treated in several
major reports.!/ In view of the proposed project location, the following
discussion refers only to the cattle trade of the West and Midwest. These
areas account for most of the total commercial trade in cattle and supply the
main terminal outlet of Tananarive and Tamatave (see Map). These towns are
not only the largest domestic consuming centers but also have two of the meat-
works exporting both canned and frozen beef.
2.        Tsiroanomandidy, in the Midwest breeding/fattening zone, is the
most important transit livestock market in Madagascar. It is located at the
mid-point of the country's greatest trade flow in cattle, originating in the
breeding areas of the West, moving through the fattening areas of the Midwest,
and terminating in Tananarive and Tamatave in the East. About 60-80,000 head
pass through the market annually.
3.        The physical equipment of the markets is primitive.   The
Tsiroanomandidy market is merely an open area on the outskirts of the town,
its sole equipment consisting of one watering point and a weighbridge for
pigs. There are no holding grounds or yarding facilities. Markets are held
weekly and the only control over transactions is the checking of the movement
permits required for herds in transit between cantons and the licenses of the
traders to ensure the payment of license fees.
4.        With the exception of a very small number of animals transported
by rail between Tananarive and Tamatave and by boat along the west coast to
Diego Suarez, cattle are moved on foot along traditional unimproved stock
routes (see Map).  In some areas, such as the Midwest, natural watering points
and grazing, though inadequate, do exist, but in the Western breeding areas
the watering cf animals in transit presents a serious problem, particularly
during the dry season.
/ M. Lacrouts, et al. "Etude des problemes poses par l'elevage et la
commercialisation du betail et de la viande a Madagascar", Paris, 1962;
M. Lacrouts, et al. "Project d'equipement de Madagascar en abattoirs
f   orifiques", Paris; Societe centrale-pour l'equipement du territoire
{SCET). "La viande de boeuf a Madagascar", Tananarive, 1962; Compagnie
d'elevage et d'alimentation du Katanga (ELEKAT). "Etude de la commer-
cialisation dù betail de la province de Majungal', Tananarive, 1966.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        Substantial though unverifiable losses (up to 50 kg per head live-
weight) occur in the movement of animals on the hoof. These are aggravated
by the lack of stock route watering facilities and bad droving practices -
e.g. rapid speed of movement. It is common for slaughter cattle bought at
Tsiroanomandidy to be driven to Tananarive, a distance of 250 kilometers, in
three to four days in order to meet meatworks requirements. At this pace,
rapid deterioration in weight and grade occurs. On the other hand, when
herds are driven slowly, with an opportunity to graze and rest, these losses
can be reduced. The project proposes substantial improvement of this situ-
ation.
6.        Cattle owners usually sell their animals at small rural markets,
although some traders operate in the "bush". In exceptional cases, cattle
owners from both the breeding and fattening'areas sell directly at the market
at Tsiroanomandidy. Transactions in the remote areas are made under condi-
tions where sellers are at a disadvantage. They are unaware of the market
prices prevailing and have to accept the prices offered by the trader.
7.        Transactions at central markets such as Tsiroanomandidy are more
complex. The sellers may be producers themselves or traders, or their inter-
mediaries bringing cattle from remote areas or the small rural markets. Among
buyers there are three broad categories: (a) butchers buying for their own
requirements; (b) traders buying either to sell to fatteners, to butchers in
consuming centers, or to the exporting companies; and (c) the exporting com-
panies themselves, represented by their own buyers.
8.        Transactions are by private treaty between seller and buyer or their
representatives, and market volumes and representative prices are recorded by
the local official of the Service de Production Animale. Settlement between
traders and producers is always in cash. Reselling by traders commonly in-
volves credit.
9.        Under these conditions there is neither reliable nor systematic
information on prices in the commercial beef sector. Since the meat exporters
have to purchase competitively, however, the prices paid by them for store and
fat cattle are probably not far removed from the average situation. Checks
with both European and Malagasy butchers support this view. A substantial
premium is paid for "fat" animals compared with thin, the range being FMG
25-30 per kg liveweight for thin animals and FMG 40-45 per kg for animals
carrying condition, a margin of FMG 15-20 per kg. In financial projections
of the project, the very conservative margin of FMG 5 per kg has been used
between the price of store animals purchased and the selling price fat after
a gain of 80 kg liveweight, yielding a margin per animal for fattening of
approximately FMG 4,000. Actual returns could be substantially higher than
this.
10.       Not allowing for consumption increases due to higher income, pro-
jections forecast shortages of beef by 1972/73. The 1968 domestic production
of 124,000 tons may increase to 139,000 tons in 1972 and 142,000 tons in 1973.
On the assumption that the national cattle herd continues to grow at one per
cent per annum, beef production might reach the consumption forecasts for



ANNEX 4
Page 3
1972 but would fall short in 1973,I/ a situation which would leave little, if
any, margin for exports. Under these conditions, prices could rise.
11.       Of the current annual take-off of about 900,000 head, about 760,000
head (over 80%) appear to be consumed by the rural community, 85,000 head
(under 10%) by the urban community through commercial trade channels and
55,000 head exported. On the export side, frozen beef is exported mainly
under contract to the French arny, canned corned beef to France and Great
Britain together totalling about 2,700 tons of carcass equivalent, and live
animals to Reunion (about 10,000 head annually).
12.       The major meat processing works, a French/British owned cartel,
"Sevima", operates a modernized plant and engages both in export and local
trade. The best cuts (about 40% of carcass veight) of the better quality
animals slaughtered (about one-third of the total) are sold to the European
butchers of Tananarive. The poorer cuts and poorer animals are processed for
canning. Frozen beef is processed at Tamatave works of the same company.
13.       The Government plans to improve marketing conditions in Tananarive
and Majunga. A FED mission has recently appraised a proposal to finance a
moderm municipal slaughterhouse at Tananarive and a FAC mission is currently
appraising a meat processing/fattening operation at Majunga. The Governnent
is considering also a modern market based on thé auction system (new to
Madagascar) in association with the proposed Tananarive municipal plant. The
Government also plans to improve marketing by improved stock routes, instal-
lation of weighbridges at strategic points and the introduction of market
price information for producers.
1/ From Bank Economic Review Mission Report (Draft, August 14, 1968).






ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LAND TENUREI/
1.        In Madagascar a progressive approach is being taken tovards land
tenure as land pressures develop and where there is a need to encourage in-
vestment for development. Problems exist mainly because of conflict between
traditional usage and modern law. In general, there is ample land area avail-
able to the cattle industry, but common grazing land is widely mishandled so
that returns are low, capital inputs negligible and land and pastures dete-
riorating.
2.        Within the context of the needs of a more efficient livestock in-
dustry, there are ample legal provisions for proceeding with land reform and
the granting of individual title without too many complications from existing
land users, at least in the Midvest zone. The Law of 1881, Acts of 1896, 1960
and Amendments of 1962 and Ordinances of 1962 and 1964 cover the adjudication
and registration of common land with firm title to the State or through the
State to individual owners.
3.        Most of the practical problems of land reform stem from the admrin-
istrative, legal, cost and time problems of adjudication and registration.
In respect of the areas proposed for development under the present project,
an urgent request was lodged by the Minister of Agriculture (July 1967) with
the Director of Topography to establish bench-marks on the land. This work
is proceeding; registration and cadastral survey are in the hands of the
Departments of Domaines and Cadastre vithin the Ministry of Agriculture. To
date survey of two proposed ranch areas has been completed. The remaining
ranch surveys are underway.
4.        Procedures in this instance are straightforward without serious
objections from the local inhabitants, who number only about 700 including
women and children in the 175,000 ha involved. The workers concerned would
be absorbed in the project, receiving cash income to supplement their present
subsistence farming activities. Because of population problems in more heav-
ily inhabited zones, the Central Development Service of the Ministry of
Agriculture estimates that few similar blocks (about 10) of 20,000 ha each
could be identified for commercial ranching. However, space for many thou-
sands of 1,000 - 1,500 ha units could be found.
5.        In summary, the tone of current thinking and action is to intensify
use of underexploited lands. The State is empowered to take over common
1/ Described in detail in "Note sur le regime foncier de Madagascar";
Direction des Domaines et du Service Topographique of the Ministere
d'Etat Charge de l'Agriculture, Tananarive, June 1, 1966.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
grazing land for its own use or to reallocate for private use subject to
supervised developmental conditions. Insofar as the legal framework and
precedents for land reform activities exist, including the granting of un-
encumbered title to individual operators, there appear to be no insurmountable
problems of land tenure.



MALAGASY RE?0O1IC Bon fArCR DEVELOPI4T FR73007
MwYlca1 and Finascial Coofflcinst.
category                   Soit             1.           2            3            h            S            6            7                         9            10           il           12           13           lh-2o
B.e? freedino   FtteÎgn Ranches
We.. lng ato                                     8             50           50           55          60            65           70           70           70           70           70           70           70           70            70
y-otality:
kd.lt. -2 ye-ar                     %              5            h            h            3            3            3            3            3            3             3            3            3            3             3
A.iInal12-24nonths                  8              S            5            5            hi           h                         h            h            h             h            h            h4                         h
tPurchaeedStoere                                     2            2            2            2            2            2            2            2            2             2            2            2            2             2
0u11gRae lnoiudng I4otaithy               %              5            5.5          5.5          h.5          4.5          h.5          h.5          4.5         11.7         23.0         12.5         12.5         12.5          12.5
Prohase Prices 
Bulle                    8740'~~~~~~FG 000  200.0      25           25           25           25           25           25           25           25           25            25           25           25           25
Ileilere ready b este                  8    ~    ~~~~    ~   ~~ N.A.  O.k.  N.A.        O.k.          N.A.         N.A.         N.k.         N.A.         N.A.         N.A.         N.k.         14.6.         O.k.
Reieras 12-24 -mothe                               6          N.A.         N.A.         N.k.         N.A.         O.k.         ll.A.        O.k.         N.6.          N.A.         O.k.         O.A.         O.k.          N.k.
Reiera 24-36 moufts                               6.5        N.A..        N.A.         N.A.         N1.1.        N.A.         N.k.          N.A.         N.A.         N.A.         N,A.         14.6.        O.k.          O.k.
Steere for fattening                              10           10           10           10           10           10           10           10           10            10           10           10           10            10
Sale Prîces:
Bulle                                             25           25           25           25           25           25           25            25           25           25           25           25           25            25
Steers 48-60 ..onthe                             N.A.         Ni.           iA.         O.k.        NSA            15           16            18           î8           20           20           20           20            20
Cli c.-e                                           8.8          8.8          8.0          8.0          .8      58          8.a8               8.8           8.8          8.           8.6          8.8          8.8           8.8
Heliers 36-h8 -oth.                              N.A.         N.p..        sA.          o.o.          il.          il            12           1h           14           16           14          N.k.         N.A.          N.k.
Hoiers. for hredlg                   '             .5.        N.k.         4.k.         N.k.         L.A.         N.k.         N.A.          O.k.         N.A.         N.k.          15           15           15            15
Purchaee d Steere                                 1h4          î      14     h           1h           14           1h           1hi          1h           1h            1h          N.k.         NAÀ.         O.k.          Na.
Faîtt.nln Ranches
M.irta'Lity                                     %              2             2           2            2             2            2            2            2            2            2            2            2            2             2
Porch..e Prious,
Stocre 2-3 Ye-r -l 51RO '000                       6.o          6.o          6.o          6.0          6.o          6      6.0          6.0          6.o     0           6.0          6.0          6.o          6.0           6.0
st.... 4-5 year  - 2                1.9.5                       9.5          9.5          9.5          9.5          9.5           9.5          9.5          9.5          9.5          9.5          9.5          9.5           9.5
Steer. 5 c Yeae-3  B3                '            1.0          11.0         U1.0         11.0         11.0         11.0         1-1.0        11.0         11.0          11.0         11.0         11.0         11.0          11.0
Ca tegoro ol                                      16.0         î6.o         16.0         16.0         î6.o         î6.o          6.          160           16.0         î6o          16.o         î6.o         î6c           160
Catog-ry 03                                       16.o        î16o          16.c           :o         160 16.  6.   6.o         î,6.0         16.0         î6.0         16.0         16.0         16.0         160           16.
Catogory 03                          *            î.0          1h.o         1h.o         1h.0         îh.o         11.0         1h.0          16.0        lh.0          16.0         14.0         1h.0         14.0          1h.0
Stnd Ra:nch
lkeeni.ng ate                                    S             90           70           75           80           80           80           80           80           80           80           80           80           80            60
Rorta.lity:
kdIute 2 yea.                       %              S            h            3            3            3             3            3            3            3            3            3            3            3 
Aniaalel12-2h mnthe                 %              5            S            S            h            h            h4                         h            h            h            h            h            h             h
C.UL.lg Rt. lzwluding D-ths                    %              5            5            S           10            10           10           10           10           10           10           10           15           2h            12.6
Parchase Priceet
hÙIle  oported                   FmI '00         6oo.0        N.k.         N.A.         N.A.         N.A.         O.k.          O.k.         N.A.         N.k.         O.A.         O.k.         O.k.         O.k.          O.k.
B.ull  Kianjaso.                                 O.k.         O.k.         O.k.          25           25          25             25           25           25           25           25           25           25            25
Cees lspeted                                     350.0        O.k.         O.k.         O.k.         8.6.         O.A.          O.k.         O.k.         O.k.         O.k.         O.k.         N.k.         O.k.          O.k.
hile. fr hreedtng                                N .A.        O.k.         11.A.         25           25            25           25           25           25           25           25           25           25            25
Relere fr bree,disE                              N .k.        O.k.         O.k.         O.k.         O.k.          O.k.         O.k.         N.A.         N.A.         O.k.         O.k.         N. A.        O.k.           î8
O,U. b.ull                                       N .k.        O.k.         MA.           25           25            25           25           25           25           25           25           25           25            25
facons                              h            O.k          Ok            16           16           16            6            16           16           16           16           16            6            6            16
Steere                              '              A.k        O.k A         ..           11..          h.h          l.L          lh.h          h.           h.h         16.           h.h         16.          11.           îh.
(N.k. - Nut ppoltuable>






MALAGAST REPOBIC BEEF CATTLE DEELOPIIET PROJECT
EOONOMIC RATE OF hETDRN
(FMOC 'l)
ITEM             TSR ) 1         2         3          4         5         6          7         8          9        10        il         12        13        14         15        16         17        18        19         20
1. One hreedingjattening ranch
Fisencial colt               74,041    42,361    41,369     40,845    38,878    33,422     28,316    22,231    15,358     10,003     9,953    io,0o6     10,024    10,024     10,024    10,024     10,024    10,024    10,024     10,024
AdJ.utnents1                   770      1,448     1,087        347   (   471)   ( 1,221)  ( 1,209)  ( 1,194)   C 1,176)     1,156)  (1,168)  ( 1,154)  ( 1,149)  C 1,149)   ( 1,149)  ( 1,149)   ( 1,149)  C 1,149)   C 1,149)  ( 1,149)
concmic coot-/               74,8U     43,809    42,456     41,192    38,407    32,201     27,107    21,037    14,182      8,847     8,785     8,852      8,875     8,875      8,875     8,875      8,875     8,875     8,875      8,875
Sales                       12,978i    28,476    35,59b     40,666    39,740    37,550    31,797     25,263    17,225     14,037    25,746    24,046     26,386    27,946     27,946    27,946    27,946     27,946    27,946    127,102
-cic Balance              (61 833)   (15,333)   ( 6,862)  (   526)    1,333     5,349     ù,690      4,226     3,043      5,190    16,961    15,194     17,511    19,071    19,071     19,071    19,071     19,071    19,071    118,227
2. One fatte-nig ranch
Financial coost              62,913    37,438    41,058     38,374    38,374     37 529    37,529    37,529    37,529     37,529    37,529    37,529     37,529    37,529     37,529    37,529     37,529    37,529    37,529     37,529
Adjoctoeats%/               ( 9,480)  ( 8,992)   (16,384)  ( 8,702)  ( 9,300)   (7,597)   ( 7,585)  (   387)    2,348      2,368     2,356      2,370     2,375     2,375      2,375     2,375      2,375     2,375     2,375     62,007
Rccnc,sic colt               53,433    28,446    24,674     29,672    29,074    29,932     29,944    37,142    39,877     39,897    39,885    39,899     39,904    39,904     39,904    39,904     39,904    39,904    39,904     99,536
Sales                        13,720    29,080    29,400     33,112    44, 216   b8,472     48,472    48,472    48,472     48,472    48,472    48,472     48,472    48,472     48,472    48,472     48,472    48,472    48,472     87,964
Eeonocci Balance            (39,713)      634     4,726      3,440    15,142    18,540     18,528    1, 330     8,595      8,575     8,587     8,573      8,568     8,568     8,568      8,568     8,568      8,568     8,568   ( 11,572)
3. Stud ranoh a-d dsed canerte
Financial c541               71,880     4,271     3,178      2,875     2,884     3,012     3,020      3,020     3,020      3,020     3,020     3,020      3,020     3,020      3,020     3,020     3,020      3,020     3,020      3,020
Aidjuet.nts2/                 1,982     2,614     2,629      1,811       954       19.       201        208       216        226       237     6,880      9,234     9,236      9,240     9,240     2,610      8,070    18,210     31,860
Eccno4c coot                73,862      6,885     5,807     4,686      3,838     3,206     3,221      3,228     3,236      3,246     3,257     9,900     12,254    12,256     12,260    12,260     5,630     11,090    21,230    34,880
Sa1esl6'                      -         3,000     6,016      7,174     7,120     7,256      7,270     7,651    14,545     24,128    17,043    17,265     17,565    13,759     18,901    29,770    43,420     62,140    86,320    108 160
&orscc,lc 3alance           (73,862)  C 3,885)      209      2,488     3,282     4,050     4,049      4,423    11,309     20,882    13,786     7,365      5,311     1,503     6,641     17,510    37,790     51 ,050   65,090     73,280
4. Onfraotrmctr e
Eeonrcce ost5/               25,378    19,831     7 047      6,667     5,250     4,500      4,500     4,5o0     4,500      4,500     4,500     4,500      4,50o     4,5oo     4,500      4,500     4,500      4,5oo     4,500      4,500
ERosorli rstorn'/              -         -       15,675     15,675    15,675    15,675     15,675    15,675    15,675     15,675    15,675    15,675     15,675    15,675    15,675     15,675    15,675     15,675    15,675     15,675
Ecesaio Balance           (25,378)   (19,831)    8,628      9,008    10,425    11,175     11,175    11,175    11,175     11,175    11,175    11,175     11,175    11,175    11,175     11,175     11,175    11,175    11,175     11,175
5. Fo«r breediaJfttening 
tlu fattesi  roekhes       (123,666)  (154,332)  (123,816)  (13,508)  il,066    20,244     50,362    54,912    51,594     39,126    61,492    81,460     82,584    90,310     93,420    93,420     93,420    93,420    93,420    449,764
6. Oearall -.icono balanc7J      (222,906)  (178,048)  (114,979)  ( 2,012)  24,773    35,469    65,586     70,510    74,078    71,183     86,453   100,000    99,070    102,988   111,236    122,105   142,385    155,645   169,685   534,219
5/ Fincial sosIe minus 75 percs,t cr the sages of stocmen an-d laborer, m  iniis 100 p,rcent cf social charges, plus 12.5 pareant of aôoinistraticn ccolt ç.i .t.ny esif-l.
/ Flancial    cosst minus 75 percent cf  thO sages of stolclen and laborers, sinus 100 pe.ceot of soeial charges, plus 12.5 percent of cadtnistretion cool plcs vctericary a  pes,rlcoc oot cf eanaglcg an -quivalest stn er ci' animais ln
absence of projct, sinu  coost cf purcha-sd enlis; plus sales cf thee anisais in ahesois of projact.
5   Firancial costo sinus 75 percent cf tha _ages cf otoc.loen and laborers, sinus 100 percent cf social charges, plcs 12.5 poreint cf  êcilnistration  costs>pls veteriary espenes.,plus the sales  f the prcgsy tchat wld rea-It fEcc  the
Zabu cous, nov rated t1 BrarIan bulas sold fro-s the stud ranch, if they vers aletd to Zebu biais.
5 Sales are ths acloal sales fro- the 2tud Ranch,mince the sales cf breedirg bullsplus the cales cf breeding busa to the fer breeding/fattening raiiches plus lis sales  f the proge.ny off thd  buls sold fro. the stud ranch oan used locally>
plus the sales cf ths ZObs steers Ihai vould be ured as bulls in abhnce of projc,tplus the sales cf seeds.
Oi oestnent and superrision costs plus 12.5 percent of adàinit-ratios  o-ste.
50   rcent eaing iU  seight Isse due to sctk routes i.e. 9.5 gg/head at FMO 30 par Kg f-c 55,000 head.
]/ Total project taking phasing int  accoun.
Eonoric ract of return - I.agagy Beef Oattlla vloIprer Prooact    -   11.3%
Ecososlc rata cf tatorn - Four breedina/fettening and tvo tattensng ranch  -  10.7%






MALAGAS! REPUBLIC BE CASTrLE DIVECWPMET -N3J8JT
Deve1~eactof 205XX  le tr'St.te' Ranch - (Rreeding celd Fattening)
On Ranch Inost-uen  Proetin
Total Costa rorl  Ranches
Unit Cnet           Averoge             verage              Ancrage Cont              Rerelopmnt Phasing                                  Dolaor
Invstaot, Itemu                      Unit.  F2< '000        Rnit. per Ranch     Cost par Ranch          per Ranh            *Ts., ea          2    Yie--T        Total Conts        Equi,a.flnt      Foreigo Exch.nge Coaponet
______________                         ____________           9~~~~~~~~~~~~H3  ' 000  (us$  eq ioclent)  F2   ' 000  FM8N1 '000  pqq   '000   F2G  '000O       (00$  000o)             %        (US$  000)
1. Fennes                                           Kms       .60                  300            10,000                72,000             10,000      5,000       3,000           72,000            258.0                75         216.0
2. Road ccd trcck iopronesants                      Ko.        6                    15               600                  2,600       0         0                                   ,00                9.6                65           6.2
Sub-tot.1                                                                                     i8,60o                76,400             10,600      5,000       3.000           7b,400            297.6                           222.2
3. hlatering Facilities
(a) BulIding Rapp~                              No.        750                   1               750                 3,O00                750       -          -                3,000             12.0                70           8.6
(b) Field Rupply-V                              No.        70                   15             1,050)                L,200                550        300        200            4,200              i6.8                60          10.1
S.h-total                                                                                      1,800                  7,200              1,300        300        200            7,200             28.8                            18.5-
6. Other Ranch Pacilitie.
(a>  Spraytng tanko cd pup       ~              No.       500                    1               500                 2,000                5oo       -          -2,000                              8.0                90           7.2
(b>  Spraying cnd hcodling yal.rd               No.       40 M                                 1,600                 6,400                800        500         300            6,600             25.6                20           5.1
(c) Central stock handling fcctlity22           No.     1.000                   1              1,000                 4,ODO              1,000       -                          4 6.ooo            16.0                20           3 2
Sob-total                                                                                      3,100                12,h00               2,300        500        300           12,h00             69.6                            15.5
5. Construction
(a) Manager l hua.e                             No.     2,500                   1              2,500)               10,000              2,500       -          -10,000                           60.0                 60          24.0
(b>  Assitt-ans bouse                           No.        700                   1               700                 2,800                700             -                     2,800             11.2                30           3.4
(c) Clerk's hou..                               No.        300                  1                300                 1,200                300       -          -                1,200              6.8                20           1.0
Cd) Neadstockna/schantcla hoose                 No.       150                    3               650                 1,800                650       -          -                1,800              7.2                20           1.4
(c) Stockm,n/labor.r/dri,er-. hoose             No.        30                  60              1,200                 6,800                900        Loo       -               4,800              19.2                10           1.9
(f) Office-store                                No.       500                    1               500                 2,000                5OC       -          -                2,000              8.0                30           2.4
(g) Workshop-shed                               No.     1.250                   1              1,250                 5, 000             1.250       -          -                5,000I            20.0                60          12.0
Sub-total                                                                                      6.900                27.600              6,500        600       -               27,6oo            110.6                            46.1_
6. Machin-ry cd Rehicles
(a) Land Rover                                  No.       860                   1                880                 3,520                880       -          -               3,520             16.1                 95          13.4
(b) Piolkup truck                               No.       550                   1                550                 2,200                550       -          -                2,200              8.8                95           8.6
(c) Tracter 55/65 hp                            No.  1050/850           B~55/2@65              2,750                11,000              2,750       -          -               11,000             46.0                95          41.8
(d) Agricult,oal squipmnnt                     Sete     1,500                   1              1,500                 6,000              1,500       -          -               6,000              26.0                95          22.8
(e) Radio transceiver                          Rets       300                   1                300                 1,200                300       -          -               1,200              6.8                 95           4.6
(f) Risc. to0la and equipeent                  Rata       300                   1                300                 1,200                200        100       -               1,200               4.8                90           4.3
Sub-total                                                                                      6.280                 25.120             6,180        100       -               25,120            100.5                            95.3-
7. 8re-ding Li-satock
(a) Bl11a31 (tmported)                          No.       200                  37              7,400                29.600              7,600       -          -              29,60o            118.6                100        118.6
(b) Bulle (Ktanjasoc)                           No.        25                   12               300                 1,200               -           150         150            1,200              4.8                -            -
(c) Heifere ready to ista (local)               No.         8               1,052              8,6l6                33,666              8,416       -          -               33,6,64          134.7                 -            -
(d) Heifers 12-26 months                        No.         6                  62                252                 1,008                252       -          -               1,00               6.0L                -            -
(e) Helfare 24-36 ountbs                        No.         6.5                361             2,367                 9,386              1.656        89,       -                9, 386           37.5                 -            -
(f) St-es for Fattening                         Nu.        10               3.289             32,890               131.560             12.36o     1.1,30     6,400          131,560             526.2                -            -
Sob-total                                                                    4,793            51,6o5                206,418             29,886     15,171     6,550           206,418            825.6                15         118.4
8. Pastuore E.tahblihenct
(a) Raed (iepolt.d(~/                           Kg.         1                3,200             3,200                12,800              3,200       -          -               12,800             51.2                95          48.6
(b) Seed fron Seed Cantar                       Kg.         0.3             6,400              1,920                 7,680               -           960        960            7,68o              30.7                -            -
Sob-total                                                                    9,600             5,120                20,68O               3,200       960         960           20,680             81.9                59          68.6
C onscltd.ted suh-total                                                                        93,UO5               373.620             59,966     22,631     11,010          373,620          1.494.1                38         564.6
ContIngencies                                                                                  10.595                h2,380              7,036      2,269      1,290           62.380            169.5                -            -
TOTAL                                                                                        1c1,ooo0               116,000             67,000     24.700     12,3 00         616,000          1,663.6                36         564.6
0/ Cont-oct dne,i.5pcent 0f 'bas fonds' springs.
37  Main dra fticg, yard ccd e~igh bridge.
37  C_oceria1 Brahoanu, landed cost..
U/ Stylos-thes Grcoillo.






<t'x   oc4.Ro  o  '6  '6  <c uc  u nc  <n     o  r<N l     o  o    .
*°    u o -.  ° 'acg     r Q   \   l |  F 
Ct~ ~ ~ In I' <O                                I |
,,=a,~~'    'O    ncc'<c..4-  <  X  _ ,,,, -   ..,.t'  't'
2~~ g<&&<       U gN g2   c<0nCt<   '6.     *@     |        <
<n  "t - O  c'  <O  <Oue
z  O'<nn       O  O~ O   O O OOO O< |      <n<° ° ° °  °     O 1zz OoOO r
-5 5 @ 5 5 @ 0 l o f 2 R ô S 9 b c a w ô ~~~~~~~sL 
c'° °>°° I  O<,n,6N,«g<n  Oé  <nO c'0NUN<nt'<  4<O<  t  <  s   2






HAI.OOÂOY REPU2BLIC B-1 CATrLE DVEMI01MENT PRNIJEOT
P,aoh...enda Sales frojeoti-. O- Breediog end Fattoei  Raoo.he
0ate.uy           Tr,        12                         3              4.          5             6               7             8              9            10           il           12             13            14.-20
No. . Value           l      . N.  iaue   n .  Value  <o.    Value   No.    Value   No.   Value.  1<     Value   No.   Value   lb.  Value    o.   Value   NOe   Value   Ni.    Value  No.    Value
P-rhase ProJcie .mo
R,lle@ 0200 -d 25          37  7,4.00    6     150     6   150       7   .175     7     175    10     250      20    500      20   500      10   250      10   250      10   250      10   250      10   250      10    250
b1eIf ererde   .   -toeate 8  1,052  8,1.16  -  -      -    -       -     -      -      -             -       -      -      -      ---                         -      -      -      -      ----
H i0r-e12-24 -othe @6      420   252      -    -      -     -       -     -             -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -     -      -      -      -      --                   -      -      -       -
Heifr.,.21-36o.tuh.  6.5  224. l,156    137    891-                 -     -      -      -      -              -      --                    -     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -       -
St.ere for fattelig O10  1.23,6 12.360  2.34.0 23.1.00 2.671. 26J410  3.053 30,530 2.81.0  28.1.00  2, 366  23.660  1.826 18.260  1.212 12.120  518  5.180 -   -      -             -      -      -      -      -       -
Total                   2.591 29,884. 2.1.83 24.4),l. 2.680 26.890  3.060 30,705 2,81.7  28.575  2.376  23.910  1,M16 18.760  1,232 12.620  528  5.143o   10   250      10   250      10   250      10   250      10    250
stee- - h8-60 .-athe                                 -      -                                 221    3,315    283  4., 58   336  6,01.8   398   7,164.  1.94  9.880   572 11,1.1o   665 13,300    782 15,64.0   860  1Y,200
Culi Co,o-                       ---                  15    132      17   150    19     167    21     185     21.    011     27    238     32    282    217  1,910    553  4.,866   262  2,306    262  2,306    262   2,306
Heif-. 36-1 .Botha                                          -       -     -       il    121    15     165      18    216     21    291.    26    361.    30    1.20    35    4.90   -      -      -      -      -       -
B.Ule forBradlng          -      -      -      -     -     -        -     -      -      -       3      75       8    200      7    175      7    175      7    175      7    175     7     175      7    175      7     125
He0Ser. for B-edin'g      -      -             -     -      -       -     -      -      -      - -  -                -       -     -       -     -      -      -      585  8,775    551  8,265    551  8,265    551   8,265
Furchaoed Steero          927, 12,978  2031. 28.1.76 2.533 35.1462  2.891. Lp15l6 2.818  39h452  2.1.15  33.810  1.9<13 26.64.2  1,322 1 M008  660  9.210  118  1.652  -     -      -      -      -      -      -       -
Total                     927 12.978  2.031. 28.1476 2.54.8 35.594.  2,911 4.0.666 2,81.8  39.2740  2.675  37,590  2.236 31,797  1.713 25.263  1.123 17.225  866 11..037  1.752 25,71.6  1.1.85 24..016  1.602 26,386  1.680  27.91.6
1/   Pri...  O-t..rO 1.-60 cootho o FMC 15,000 in oa 6, a MI 16,000 i. y-or 7 aod 01V 1,00,otb-r-ftc:, z,zti1 y-.r 10-20 alec -, s r11ç 20,000l.
Coil oua, N M15 8,800 tbroughout. Y
H.lf.re 36-4.8 aooth.  M 153 ,000 lu y-ar 5 and 6 O F?Ç3 12,P00 in y-a 7 u,d M5 214,000 therealtr.                                                                                                        .10
O.ull for breedleg O FIC 25,000 theouchoot.
H.eifere for breedi.g O FMC 15,000 throoa'hot.
P-rha..ed eteere at FM5 21.,000 tha'oogh.ut.






MALAGASI REPSBLIC BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPHEIT PROJECT
Deaelonpent of 20,000 hectare "State" Ranch (Breeding  ad Fattening)
Operating Expenses Projections
Unit           t Oii t     1         2          3         4          5          6         7          8         9          10        il        12          13         14      15-20
(F, '000)
Cattle Purchase                              per haad
Ruel I"                                                      25         _          _         _          175       175        250        500       500        500       250       250        250        250         250      250
Steerav                                                      10          _       9,270    20,340     30,530     28,400    23,660     18,260    12.120      5,180        -        -          -          -           -        -
Sub-total                                                               _        9,270    20,340     30,705     28,575    23,910     18,760    12,620      5,680       250       250        250        250         250      250
Purchase of Seed                                                                   -         -          960        960       -
Salaries and Wages                            per annul
(a) Manager/                                   1           3,120      Included in  adiniitratite budgeet - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
(b) Assistant Manager4/                        1          700-900       700       700        700        800       800        900        900       900        900       900       900        900        900         900      900
(c) Clerk                                      1             360        360       360        360        360       360        360        360       360        360       360       360        360        360         360      360
(d) Head Stockcan                              2             120        240       250        240        250       240        240        240       2LO        240       240       240        240        240         240      240
(0)  4echanic (l/6)52                         1/6            480         80        80         80         80        80         80         80        80         80        80        80         80         80          80       80
(f) Aseistaut Mechanic_/                       1             240        240       240        240        240       240        240        240       240        240       240       240        240        240         240      240
(g) Driver                                     5             120        600       600        600        600       600        600        600       600        600       600       600        600        600        600       600
(h) Sto.kclan§/                               30              60      1,200      1,800     1,800      1,800     1,800      1,800      1,800     1,800      1,800     1,800     1,800      1,800      1,800       1,800    1,800
(i) Labrer                                     5              60        300       300        300        300       300        300        300       300        300       300       300        300        300        300       300
Sub-total                                                             3,720      4,320     4,320      4,420      L,420     4,520      4.520     4.520      4.520     4,520     4.520      4,520      4.520       4,520     4,520
Social charges 15%                                                      558        648       648        663       663        678        678       678        678       678       678        678        678         678      678
,,b-botat                                                             4,278      4.968     4,968      5,083      5,083     5.198      5,198     5,198      5,198      5,198    5,198      5.198      5,198       5,198     5,198
Aniai Health                                 per head
(a)  Douches                                               0.150        375       675        845      1,013     1,109      1,151      1,167     1,198      1,237     1,280     1,253      1,283      1,295       1,295    1,295
(b) Veterinary Supplies                                    0.035         88       158        197        236       259        266        272       280        290       300       292        300        302         302      302
(c) Salt sud Licke                                         0.070        175       315        394        473       517        532        544       560        578       600       585       600         604         604      604
3_b-total                                                               638      1,148     1.436      1,722      1,885     1,939      1,983     2,038      2,105     2,180     2,130      2,183      2.201       2,201    2,201
Repair3 and oaintenance of Structures         per annum        -           -         150       200        250       250        250        250       250        250        250      250        250        250         250      250
Vehicle and Equipment Operatios cud
Maintenance                                  "   "         2,000       2,000     2.000     2,000      2,000      2.000     2,000      2,000      2,000     2,000      2,000    2,000      2.000       2,000      2.000     2,000
Sub-total                                                  2.000       2,000     2.150     2,200      2,250      2,250     2,250      2,250     2,250      2,250      2,250    2.250      2,250       2.250      2,250     2,250
Benerai Zeense.                              per annue
Office                                           "            75         75         75        75         75         75        75         75        75         75        75        75         75         75          75       75
Miscellaneous                                "                50         50         50        50         50         50        50         50        50         50         50       50         50         50          50       50
S.b-total                                                               125        125       125        125        125       125        125       125        125        125      125        125        125         125       125
TOTAL                                                                 7,041     17.661    29,069     40.845     38.878    33,422     28.316    22,231     15.358     10.003    9.953     10,006      10,024     10,024    10.024
Brahoan buile pcrchased lîcally e- stud at FMO 25,000 per head.
Zebu teera dalired on ranch at F.'4 10,000 per head.
3/ Profenatonal epstriate manager for di1bursement period. One per ranch, but salary included in Adainistration Eudget.
W   Malagasy, uhe vil take mer ranch on project oompletion.
/   Onw nechanie for six ranches vith a assistant on each ranch.
Twenty stockmen in Year 1, additional ten from year 2 nowards.






MALAGASY REPUBLIC BEEF CATTLE DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Financial Projections - 20,000 Hectare "Statel Ranch (Breeding Md Fattening)
(FMG ' 000)
Y E A R          1         2          3         4          5           6          7           8           9         10          il         12          13         14          15-22
1. Cash Outflov
(a) Investment                     67,000     24,700    12,300       --        --          --         --          --         --         --          --         --          --         --           --
(b) Livestock purchase               --        9,270    20,340     30,705    28,575      23,910      18,760     12,620       5,680       250         250        250         250         250         250
(c) Operating conts 1/              7,041      8,391     8,729     10,140    10,303       9,512       9,556      9,611       9,678     9,753       9,703       9,756      9,774       9,774       9,774
(d) Total                          74,041     42,361    41,369     40,845    38,878      33,422      28,316     22,231      15,358    10,003       9,953      10,006     10,024      10,024      10,024
2. Cash Inflow
(a) Sales 2/                         --      12,978     28,476     35,594     40,666     39,740      37,550     31,797      25,263    17,225      14,037      25,746     24,046      26,386      27,946
(b) Government investmeit 3/        8,040      2,964     1,476      --         --          --          --         --          --        --          --
(c) Bank loan 4/                   58,960    21,736     10,824       --        --          --          --         --         --         --          --         --          --         --           --
(d) Total                          67,000     37,678    40,776     35,594    40,666      39,740      37,550     31,797      25,263    17,225      114,037     25,746     24,046      26,386      27,946
3. Cash Balance                        (7,041)    (4,683)     (593)    (5,251)    1,788       6,318       9,234      9,561       9,900     7,217       4,079      15,735     14,017      16,357      17,917
4. Loan Service
(a) Amortization 5/                  -_        --         --        --         --          --         --                      r       10,642      10,642      10,642     10,642      10,642       10,642
(b) intereet 6/                      -_       3,832      5,245      5,949     5,949       5,949       5,949      5,949       5-949      -_    _-               --          --          --          --
(c) Total                            _-       3,832      5,245      5,949     5,949       5,989       5,949      5,9M1       7,949    10,642      10,642      10,642     10,642      10,642       10,642
5. Goverment Grant                      7,041     8,515      5,838     11,200      4,161                  --          --               --         --               --          --          --          --
6. Cash Balance after Loan Service       --        --         --        --         --           369       3,285      3,63±       3,951     (3,425)    (6,563)      5,093      3,375       5,715       7,275
7. Cumulative Balance after
Loan Service                   --         --        --         --        --            369      3,654      7,266      11,217      7,792      1,229       6,322       9,697     15,412         --
1/ Administration costs not reflected in this table.
2/ SCaî occur at end of year; cash inflow only available during following yaar.
3   Twelve per cent of total investment during the first three years.
4/ Eighty-eight per cent of total investment during the first three years.
g/ Thirteen years, nine years grace. Equal annuities including principal and interest.
6   6.50 % per annmi.






MRL&GASY REPUBLIC BEEF CAMTI DKVEnR4M8T PRDJRCT
Denlono,t  f  O,b  hetr  Sae     5c    Ete     g)
Coot fCo 2 Ranches
Unit Cent            A-erge              An-rge                 Anrage Cnet                Developset Phasing                                    Doller
Invest,,nt Otees                      Rijt    FM', 'C0O       Units 9cr Ranch        Cent Per Ranch           Per Ranch             Year 1     Y... 2      Yea.  3        Tota1 Con te       Equisalest       Fnreign Echange Cos.posent
________  ____________         ~~~F982 '000         (US$ eg   .lvalet)     F983 '000   FM8 '000   FM8 ' 000        F983  OC )c US$ .000)                      %        (0S$ '000)
1. Fences                                             Ko.         60                  300               1R,OO0                 72,000              10,000      5,000       3,000           36,0)00            111.O                 75           1C6.0
2. Rond ced t-ak                                     K.rv,oneR    h0                   15                  6o0                  2.îOO                 600       -           -               1.200               h.8                 65             3.1
S.R-tota1                                                                                          18,600                  7h,hoo             10,600       5,000      3,000            37,200             118.8                            1rn*î
3. Watering Facilitise
(a)  Building euppl,y                R~~   ~    ~~~N.  750             1                  765300                                     750        -          -                1,600               6.0                 70            L.2
(b)  Fieîdd snppîyY                              No5015,0012060                                                                                              300        20               ,0                 816                                .0
SuR-total                                                                                            1.800                  7.200               1,300        300         200            3.600              11b.h                               9.2
4.  Other Ranh F-cilities
(a)  Spraying t.ok and pump                      In.         600                   1                  600                  2, C00                600        -          -1,000                               Lo0                 90            3.6
(b)  Spray-ing ond h.ndIlsg yard.                No K.       400                   1                1,600                  6,ho00                800         600        300             3,200              12.8                 20            2.6
(c)  Central stock handlig     acilUtyz~         Rn.       1,000                    1               1,000                  4,000               1,000        -     -                     2,000               8.0                 2R            1.6
S.R-t.t.1                                                                                            3,100                12,LO0                2,300        600         300            6,200              24.8                                7.8
5.   ontruction
M(.) Msg.r-. bosse                             RNo.     2,500                    1                2,500                 10,000               2,500       -           -.5,000                            20.0                 60            12.0
(b) Ansistante Roues                             No.         700                    1                 700                  2,800                 700        -          -                 ,L100              5.6                 3C            1.7
(o) Cl-rk's Renne                                RN.         300                    1                 300                  1,200                 300        -                             600               2.à                 20            0.6
)d) Read.t-k-.M/9eehan.ls~ honne                 No.         160                    3                 450                  1,8000                h50        -                             900               3.6                 OR            0.7
(e)  Stoonlhrrd-            rehoues              No.          30                  IC                1,200                  1,80D                 800         100                        2,100               9.6                 ic-           1.0
(C)  Oico-ot-r                                   RNo.        600                    i                 600                  2, 00                 600        -          -1,000                               4.c                 30            1.2
(g) Worknhop-shed                                Rn.       1,250                    1               1,250                  6,000               1,250        -          -2,500                              10.0l                60            6.0
Sol-total                                                                                            6,po0                 27,600              6,500    0      0       -               13,800              55.2                              23.1
6.  M-hi-ey and V.oicles
()a   I-nd Rover                                 No.         880                    1                 080                  3,520                 880        -          -1,760                               7.0                98             6.7
(b)  Piln~,p t-uck                               Rn.         660                    1                 660                  2,200                 660              -                     1,100               1.1                 95            4.2
c)  -rot-r 55/16 hp                            RN.   1060/860             q516/29165              0.750                 11,000               0,750       -                            5 ,5 00           22.0                 96            20.9
(1'  tgricnturnl e~opneot                  Sets       1,600                   1                1,600                  6,000               1,500        -          -3,000                              12.0                 95           11.1
(o)  Ondin tro-ciner                            Sets         300                    1                 300                  1,200                 300        -                             600               2.4                 95            2.3
(C>  Min-  Con.a ond eculpeet                   2e0,n        300O                  1                  300                  1.200                 200         100       -600                                 2.1                 90            2.2
sui-t'ta1                                                                                           6,280                 25.120               6,180         100       -12,560                             50.2                              h7.7
7.  F.tt-nin   Lu-ocnnk
(a) Steers 2-3 y-ere                             RN.           6                 737                Ù,422                 17,688                -           -         1,122             8,811              35.4                 --
(b>  stoor  1-5 y..r.                             No.          9.5              2,323              22,o69                 88,276               9,500       9,690      2,879            11,138             176.5 
(c)  stoc-   6 * Y-ars                           RN.          il                1,060              11.110                 45.76o              11,000         220        220            22,880              91.5 
S.R-total                                                                                          37,931                151,721              20,500       9,910      7,521            75,862             303.1                 -             -
8.  Pa-t-r Establishmst
(a)  Sesd (iprted)2/                             Kg            1                3,200               3,200                 12,800               3,200        -          -                6,100              25.6                 95           24.3
(b)  Seed Cro   seed conter                      K              .                ,0                 1,920                   7.680               -            960        960             3,8h0              15.1                 -             -
SuR-tot.l                                                                                            5.120                 20,b80               3,200        960         960)          10,240              41.0                 -            24.3
ocs slidated seR-tota1                                                                              79,731                318,924              60,580     17,170      11,981          159,462             637.8                 35           223.2
Contungenelse                                                                                        8.269                 33,076               5,420      1.730       1,119           16,538              66.2                 -             -
TCOBAL                                                                                              88,000               352,000              56,CO0      18.900     13.100           176.000             7C1.C                 32          223.2
I/ Contrant deneI.peet     fi "bas fonda" noroge.
2/Main donft tg yard a..  esigh bridge.
S/ tylosanthes gracilas.






ANNEX 8
Table 7
1MALAGASY RF4UBLIC BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fattening Ranch-Herd Model
Year          1        2         3          4         5         6-20
Herd Composition 4/
Bl-Steers 2-3 years                     -        -        737     1,742      2j728      3,000
B2-Steers 4-5 years                  1,000    2,000     2,263     2,500      2,500      2,500
B3-Steers 5+ years                   1,000    1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000      1,000
Total                                2,000    3,000     4,000     5,242      6,22ô      6,500
Mortality 
Bl-Steers 2-3 years                     -         -        15        34         54         60
B2-Steers 4-5 years                     20      4h         46        51         51         51
B3-Steers 5+ years                      20       20        20        20         20         20
Total                                   40       60        81       105        125         131
Sales 1/
Bl-Steers 2-3 years                     -        -         -         -         694         960
B2-Steers 4-5 years                     -       960       980     1,212      1,212      1,212
B3-Steers 5+ years                     980      980       980       980        980         980
Total                                  980    1,940     1,960     2,192      2,886      3,152
Purchases 1/
Bl-Steers 2-3 years                     -        -        737     1,020      1,020      1,020
B2-Steers 4-5 years                  1,000    1,020     1,263     1,263      1,263      1,263
B3-Steers 5+ years                   1,000    1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000      1,000
Total                                2,000    2,020     3,000     3,283      3,283       3,283
1/ Head of cattle.
2/ 2 percent per annum.






MALAGASY REPUBLIC BEEF CATTLE DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Purchase and Sales Projections for Fattening Ranches
Year 1            Year 2          Year 3          Year 4         Year 5            Years 6-20
Purchase Projections 1/(FMGIO'O)
Category                   No      Value     No     Value     No    Value      No    Value    No   Value       No       Value
Bl-Steers 2-3 years         -         -        -       _       737   4,422   1,020   6,120 1,020   6,120     1,020     6,120
B2-Steers 4-5 yeare     1,000      9,500   1,020     9,690  1,263  11,999    1,263  11,999  1,263 11,999     1,263    11,999
B3-Steers 5+ years      1,000     11,000   1,000   11,000   1,000   11,000   1,000  11,000 1,000 11,000      1,000    11,000
Total                    2,000     20,500   2,020   20,690   3,000  27,421   3,283  29,U9   3,283 29,119     3,283    29,119
Sales Projections2/(FMG' 000)
Bl-Steers 2-3 years        -           -      -        -        -       -       -       -     694 l,l4       960    15,360
B2-Steers 4-5 years        -           -      960  15,360      980  15,680   1,212  19,392  1,212 19,392     1,212    19,392
B3-Steers 5+ years        980     13,720      980  13,72Q      980 13,720      980 13,720     980 13,720       980    13,720
Total                     980     13,720   1,940   29,080   1,960   29,400   2,192  33,112  2,886 44,216     3,152    48,472
1/  Purchase price per head, Category B1, FMG 6,000; Category B2, FMG 9,500;
Category B3, PM 11,000.
2/  Sales price per head, Category B1, FMG 16,000; Category B2, FMG 16,000; Category B3, FMa 14,000.






MItALGAS1 RBEIIBC BER CATTLE D0V%EIFP?MT ?RIJECT
De.elopoet of 20,000 hectares 'State" Ranch (fattening)
Oper.ting laoeae Projections
y E A B S
unit     Unit Cost         1         2         3         Ij        5        6         7         8         9         10       1i        12        13        lb      15-20
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ( FYG t 000) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Cattle Purchase:
Steers 2-3 years                                      6             _         _         _       6,120     6,120     6,120     6,120     6,120    6,120     6,120     6,120     6,120     6,120     6,120     6,120
Steers 4-5 yeare                                      9.5           -         -        9,120   11,999    11,999    11,999    11,999    11,999   11,999    11,999    11,999    11,999    11,999    11,999    11,999
Steera S years and over                              il             -       10.780    10.780   11,000    11,000    11 OCO    11,000    11,000    11.000   11.000    11.000    11.000    11.000    ll.o0o    11.000
Sub-total                                                            10.780    19.900   29,U9     29,119    29,119    29,19     29,119    29,119   29,119    29.119    29,19     29.119    29.119    29,119
Purchase of Seed                                                                                     960       960
Salaries ard Wages:
Per anja
(a) Manager (Malagasy)                      1     700 - 900          700       700      700       80G       800       900       900       900      900       900       900       900       900       900       900
(b) Clerk                                   1       360              360       360      360       360       360       360       360       360      360       360       360       360       360       360       360
(c)  Head Stockw-1/                         2       120              2b0       740      2b0       2400      21,       240       240       2400     24b0 2,0            21,0      240       240       240       240
(d) Mechanic (l/6)-                       V1/6      1,80              80       80        80        80        80        80        80        80       80        80        80        80        80        80        80
(e) Aasistant Mechanic-                     1       2b0              240      240       210       240       210       2b0       240       240      2bO       2400      21,       240       240       240       240
(f)  Driver 2/                              5       120              600       600      600       600       600       600       600       600      600       600       600       600       600       600       600
(g) Stockcn-                               30        60            1,200     1,800    1,800     1,000     1,800     1,800     1,800     1,800    1,800    1i,00      1,800     1,800     1,800     1,800     1,800
(h) Laborer                                 5        60              300       300      300       300       300       300       300       300      300       300       30        300       300       300       300
Sub-total                                                   3,720     4,320     4,320    4,420     ,4120     IJ,520    h,520     4,520     4,520     b,S520   4,520     4,520     4,520     11,520    b,520
Social Charge 15%                                                       558      618       6b8       663       663       678       678       678      678       678       678       678       678       678       678
Sub-total                                                   4,278     4.968     4,968     5.083    5.083     5,198     5.198     5,198     5.198     5.198    5.198     5.198     5.198     5.198     5.198
Ani.al Health:
(a)  Douches                            Per head      0.150          300       303      ,50       192       b92       192       492      1492      192       192       192      1492       492       492       1,92
(b) Veterinary Supplies                  Per head     0.035           70        71      105       115       115       115       115       115       115      115       115        l5       llS       115       115
(c)  Salt and Licks                     Per head      0.070          1140      141      210       230       230       230       230       230      230       230       230       230       230       230       230
Sub-total                                                     510       515       765       837      137       837       837       837       837       837       837      837       837       837       837
Repairs and Maintenance of Structures       Per anPm      -            -          150       200      250       250       250       250       250       250       250      250       250       250       250       250
Vehicle and Equipeent Operation             Per anDU  2,000          2?000      2.000    ?-°°      2.000     2,00        0 2,      000     2,000     2 O 2.L0            20?      2,000     2,000     2.000     2.000
Sub-total                                                   2.000     2.150     2.200     2,250    2,250     2.250     2.250     2,250     2.250     2.250    2.250     2.250     2.250     2.250     2.250
General hpenses:
Office                                   Per anr      75              75        t5        75        75        75       75        75        75        75        75        75        75       75        75        75
Miscellaneous                            Per annms    50              50        50        50        50        50       50        50        50        50        50        50        50       50        **        50
Sub-total                                                     125       125 125 12S                            125       125       125       125       125       125      125       125       125       125
TOTAL                                                       6.913    18,538    27,958    38,37b    38,3714  37,529    37 529    37,529    37,529    37,529    37,529              37,529   37.529    2.52
1/   Oune nechanic for 6 ranches ,ith an assistant on each ranch.                                                                                                                                                       i .
2/   Tventy atociceen in Tear 1; additioe,al ten fros vear 2 on,ards.






MLUS! REPUBLIC BEEF CATTLE DEVE:LOPMlNT PROJXCT
Financial Projections - 20,000 Hectare "State" Ranch (Fatteaing)
(FMG '000>
Z A R                1         2          3          4         5          6          7          8         9          10         J]          12-22
1. Cash Outflow
(a) Invest nt                     56,000     18,900     13,100      --         --         --        --         --         --         --         --           --
(b) Livestock purchase              -        10,780     19,900    29,119     29,119     29,119    29,119     29,119     29,119     29,119     29,119       29,119
(c) Operating coste 1/             6,913      7,758      8,058     9,255      9,255      8,410     8,410      8,410      8,410      8,41o      8,410        8,410
(d) Total                         62,913     37,438    41,058     38,374     38,374     37,529    37,529     37,529     37,529     37,529     37,529       37,529
2. Cash Intlow
(a) Sales 2/                        --       13,720     29,080    29,400     33,112     44,216    48,472     48,472     48,472     48,472     48,472       48,472
(b) Oovernast investit 3/          6,720      2,268     1,572       --         --         --        --         --         --         --         --           __
(c) Bank lom  4/ -49,280                     16,632    11,528       -_         _-         --        _-         __         __        -_          __           __
(d) Total                         56,o0o     32,620    42,180     29,400     33,112     44,216    48,472     48,472     48,472     48,472     48,472       48,472
3. Cash Balace                        (6,913)    (4,818)    1,122     (8,974)    (5,262)     6,687    10,943     10,943     10,943     10,943     10,943       10,943
4. Loan Service
(a) Anortisation 5/                            --        --         --         --         --         --        --         --        9,005       9,005       9,005
(b) Interest 6/                               3,203      4,284     5,034      5,034      5,034      5,034     5,034      5,034       --         --           --
(c) Total                           --        3,203      4,284     5,0314     5,0314     5,038      5,034     5,034      5,034      9,005       9,005       9,005
5. Governsent Grat                     6,913      8,021     3,162     14,008     10,296       --         --        --         --         --          --          --
6. Cash Balance after Lomn Service      -          --        --         --         --        1,653      5,909     5,909      5,909      1,938       1,938       1,938
7. COalative Balance after
Lon Service                   -_        __         __         __        __        1,653      7,562     13,471    19,380     21,318      23,256         __
1/   Adluinistration coats not reflected in this table.
2/   Sales occur at end of year; cash inflow only available during following year.
3/   Twelve per cent of total investment during the first three years.
4/   Eighty-eight per cent of total investment during the firet three years.
g/   Thirteen years, nine years grace. Equal annuities including principal and interest.
'/   6.50 % per annum.






MALABSI REPUBLIC B!EF CATTLE DEVEWP!(DlT PROJECT
Developient of 1,000 hectare latud" Ranch and 200 hectare Seeds Center
On-ranch Investsit Cost Pro jections
Total           Coet for            Coet for                 DevepI                             Foreign  mxohange
Investmot Items                             Unit Cost          Unite          Stud Ranch          Stud Ranch             1_ a          . .r    u Ir 3             Co^ponet
(PWPOOO)                         (FM3 '000)          (US8$ Equiv.)           (PF'000)(7(#'OOO)   (FIG'OO)                     (us 3
A. Stud Ranch
1-Fences               (Km.)                      100                30            3,000               12,000                1,800        800        400          75          9,000
2-Ranch Roads          (KM.)                       40                 2               80                  320                   80         -          -           65            208
3-Iater Facilities and Yards
(a) Baldirg supply                               20                 1               20                  80                    20         -          -           70             56
(b) Cattle field supply                          70                 3              210                 840                   140         50         20          60            504
(c) Stockhandling facilities                    250                 1              250                1,000                  250         -          -            -             -
4-Constiuctions
(a) Assistant mnagerle hcase                    700                 1              700               2,800                   700         -          -           30            840
(b) Head stocklan's hom                         150                 1              150                600                    150         -          -           20            120
(c) Stocknan's houe                              30                 2               60                 240                    60         -          -           10             24
(d) Stable                                       50                 2              100                400                    100         -          -           10             40
5-Machinery adlhces
(a)  Pick-up truck                              550                 1              550               2,200                   550         -          -           95          2,090
(b) Misc. toola and equilment (sets)            125                 1              125                500                    125         -          -           95            475
Sub Total                                                               5,245              20,980                  3,975       850        h20          -          13,357
6-Livestock
(a)  imported bulle                             600                 5            3,000              12,000                 3,000         -          -           90         10,800
(b)  Imported cova                              350               150           52.500             210,000                52.500         -          -           90        189,000
Sub-total                                                             55,500             222,000                 55,500         -          -                    199,80c
Contingencies                                                                      6.o55              24.220                  5.930        85         4h                      7,^3
Total stud ranch                                                                  66,800             267,200                 65.405        935        460          82       220,800
B. Seeds Center
1 ,Constructions
(a    river-mechania hoese                       150                1              150                 600                    150        -          -           20            120
(b) Laborer's house                              30                 2               60                 240                    60         -          -           10            144
(c) Seed store-shed                           1,000                 1            1,000               4,000                  1,000        -          -           60          2,400
2-Machiner
(a)  Tractor                                  1,05                  1            1,050               4,200                  1,050        -           -          95          3,990
(b) Agricultural equipoent (sets)              1,225                1            1,225               4,900                   625        600          -          95          4,655
(c) Misc. tools and equipmeat (sets)             50                 1               50                 200                     50         -          -           90           180
Sub-total                                                              3,535              14.140                  2,935        600         -            -         11.489
3-Imported Purchased Seed (Kg)                       1              800              800               3.200                    800         -          -           95         3.o4o
Contingencies                                                                        415               1,660                    265        150         -            -          1,300
Total seeds center                                                                 4.75o              19,000                  4,000        750         -           83         15.829           >x
RAND TOTAL, STUD RANCH + SEEtS CENTER                                             71,550             286,200                 69,405      1,685        460          83        236,629






MALA0AS?Y REPLTBLIC BEF CATTLE DEVELOPhNT PROJECT
Development of Stud Ranch
Herd Developrnent Projections
Value o! Cattle
Category          Unit      Tears 0-5   Tears6-20      1      2      3       4      5      6      7      8      9     10     il       12       13       14         15       16-20
(FIIG '000)  (FNG t000)
HMl CONFOITION
Breeding cows                 No.       25.0         25.0        142    135    128    U15    157    182    206     228    262    302    346      394       379      437       437       437
Heifers mated                 No.       25.0          25.0        -      -      -      60     45     47      47     63     74     83     91      106       121       63        63        63
Total temnles mated           No.        -             -         142    135    128    175    202    229    253     291    336    385    437                500      500       500       500
Calves                        No.        4.0           4.0       135     99    101    102    140    162    183     202    233    269    308      350       400      400       400       400
Heifers 8-24 months           No.        8.0           8.0        -      64     47     49     49     67      78     88     97    112   .129      148       168      192       192        192
Beiters 24-36 months          lo.       18.0         18.0         -      -      62     46     48     48     65      76     85     94    109      125       144      163       186       186
Blas 8-24 montha              No.       10.0         10.0         -      48     35     36     37     49      59     66     73     84     97       lu       126      144       144       144
Bulle 24-36 months            No.       25.0         25.0         -      -      47     34     35     36      48     57     64     71     81       94       108      122       140       140
Steers 8-24 months            No.        8.o           8.0        -      16     12     12     12     18      19     22     24     28     32        37       42       48        48        48
Steers 24-36 months           No.       114.4        14.4         -      -      16     12     12      12     18     18     21     23     27        31       36       41        47        47
CUf fattening females         No.       16.0         16.0         -       1      3      9     13     14      16     17     20     24     27       30       106       48        48         48
Bulle - Stud                  No.       25.0          25.0         5      5      5      8      7      7       8     10     il     12     14       17        17       17        17         17
Total nuibers                 NO.        -             -         2483                        555    642     747    847    964  1.102   1.261    1.443    1.647    1.675     1.722     177r
TOTAL                        A.U.        -             -         1      2      355    31     415    480     564    645    731    B33    953     1.093    1.247    1.275     1.322     1
1<ITALrr
Coav                          No.        -             -           8      6      4      4      5      6       7      8      9     10     12        13       15       15        15         15
Heiters mated                 No.        -             -          -      -      -       2      1       1      1      2      2      2      3         3        4        4          5         6
Heifers 8-24 months           No.        -             -          -       3      2      2      2      3       3      3      4      4      5         6        7        8         8          8
Heifers 24-36 mnths           No.        -             -          -      -       2      1      1       1      2      2      3      3      3         4        4        5         6          6
BuUs 8-24 montha              No.        -             -          -       3      2      2      2      3       3      3      3      4      5        5         6        7         7          7
Bulle 24-36 onths             No.        -             -          -      -       1      1      1       1      1      2      2      2      3         3        3        4         4          4
Bails about to be sold        No.        -             -          -      -      _       1      1      1       1      1      1      2      2         2        3        3         3          3
Steers 8-24 months            No.        -             -          -       1      1     -      -       -      -       1      1      1      1         1        1        1         1          1
Steors 24-36 monthe           No.        -             -          -      -      -      -      -       -      -       1      1      1      1         1        1        1         1          1
Steers about to be sold       No.        -             -          -      -      -      -      -       -      -       1     -       1      1         1        1        1          1         1
Bulle - Stud                  No.        -             -          -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -         -         I        1         1         -
Cull Co»                      No.        -             -          -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -       1      1      1         1        1        3         1          1
TOTAL                         No.        -             -           a     13     12     13     13      16     18     24     27     31     37        40       47       53        53
SALES
Heiters for breeding          No.        -             -          -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -    --       -         -        -        77         95       117
Bull   a for breeding         No.        -             -          -      -      -      43     34      32     34     45     54     60     66        75       88      102       116        135
Steers                        No.        -             -          -      -      -      16     12      12     12     17     18     20     22        26       30       35         40        46
Gull covo                     No.        -             -          -      -       1      3      9      13     14     16     16     19     23        26       29      103         47        47
Cu11 bulls                    No.        -             -          -      -      -       1      1       3      1      1      2      2      2         2        3        3          3         3
TOT&L                         No.        -      _           _         _          1     63     56      60     61     79     90    101    11        129      150      320       301        348
B%1J                          No.        -             -           5     -      -       1      1       1      1      1      1      1      1         1        1        1          1         1
Breeding cova                 No.        -             -         150
TOTAL                         No.        -             -         1       -      -       1       1      1      1      1      1      1       1        1        1        1          1
PRODUCTION COEFFICIENTS
aning RBate                    %          -            -          90     70     75     80      80     80     80     80     80      80     80       80       80        80        80        80
Nortality I
Adult                 %         -            -            5      4      3      3      3      3       3      3      3      3      3         3        3        3         3
Animals 8-24 months %           -            -            5     5       5      4      4      4      4       4      4      4      4        4         4        4         4          4
Cu-Uing rate including death. %          -             -           5      5      5     lO     10      10     10     10     10     10      10       10       24     12.6       126       12.6 






ALISAGA! NEPUBITC E?crT   )flP4J    PSC
Pe-chaos and Sales Projeotiuoo for Stud P-oh
CATECOSV           Tor    1           2           3           4          5          6           7         a                       10           il          12          13         lu.        15           16-20
NoVau   No   au     No   ale   VoI  Valu   Nu  VAlue   u  'Value  No  Valua  No  Value   Se  Value  Su   V'uo    Nu   .. Velu   Vfl~   NB   Value  Su   Value  Nu  Value  Nu V-alue.
-----    - ---  - ------     - -  - - ------     - - -----------        -------Fû      0 -- -- ------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------
Nufle-Seperted     S~ 3,000   -     -    -     -
BN1ll-NlseJ....                -    - -              -           25     1   25     1   25     1     25   1     25    1     25    1     25     1    25    1    25    1     25    1    25     1    25    i    25
SreeuteNgoes-SIperted  150 52,500   - 
Total                  15555,500    -     -    -     -      1    25     1   25     1   25    1      25   1     25    i     25    1     25    V    25     1    25    1     25    i    25     i    25    1    25
S ~~2/,d.t-
Heifsr f-rbrsediug     -…         …      …      …     …      …      …      …      …      …      …      …     …      …      …      …      …      …      …      …     …      …   3V7 1,356   95 1,71V  117 2,106
Bulle for breedig      -4 3 1,075                                     31.  050    32  800    35    85o   55 1,125   55  1,350   60  1,500    66 1,650   75 1,875    08 2,200   102 V, 550  116 2,90e  135 3,375
Stees                                -    --               16   230    12   173   12  123    12   113    17   255   18    250   20    208    22   317   26   371.   30   432    35   501,  50   576   46   662
cou C-,                -       -     -    -      1    16    3    65     9   155   13  208    IL   224.   16   256   16    256   19    304    23   360   26   blé    09  1,65   103 1.658   b7   752   47   752
Cul NaBe-                           -     -           -     1    25     1   25     3   75     1     25    1    25    2     5e    2     50     2   50     2    50     3    75    3    75     3    75    3    75
Total                  -                             16    63 1,378    56 1,192   601256     61L1,27     79 1,651   9   1 91V5 101  2,11    113 2,385  129 2,715   15V 3,171  320 6,163   301 6,013   358 6,97o
1/ Peruhues pal-e  Sq,tprod sad Brelan bulle ut F4r1 600,000 par baud
.1         i~~~l u-lf -ou ut FMI 352,000 per 1aod
Stud Vr-bra balle f-u Nluujuoou ut FMI 25,000 -e baud.
2/ Salas Frice:   Fropar h-d, 24-36 ooth IdA brifer,, FO 10,000; 25-36 ...th oSA 5lul, FMI 25,000; 25-36 u-th ld suter, FMI, 15,Dm; Cuil bulle F141 25,0OO; ColO futteulugrena  FMI î6,0CO.






AUNEX e
MALAGASr REPUBLIC BEEF CATTLE DEVELOMflNT 'ROJECT                                                         Table lb
DEI.OT>Olr %    _                         - 200 HlTnARL uewnq CIr,'1M
_       -          . .  , .
Unit Cost
IT671P., perAn-                             1         2          3          S           S          5          7           6          9           1o-20
(FMG '000)
Salarees and Wage-          (FMO '000)                                                A. STUD RANCH
(a)  Assistant Manager l/   700 - 90C           700       700        700        800         t00       900         900        900         900         900
(O)  HeadstockDaa  2/  -    120                 120       120        120        120         120       120         120        120         120         120
(c)   toc,enkn 3/ -          S0 - 120           120       120        120        120        120        120         120        120         120         120
(d)  Social clirRu                              141       141        141        156         156       171         171        171        171          171
aUS-TOTAL                                     1,061     1,081      1,081       1,196      1,196     1,311        1,311      1,311      1,311       1,311
2.  Animal Health  !             (FMi)             (255)     (352)       (465)      (475)      (04)      (502)       (520)        (520)     (520)        (520)
a)  D   h                   200/nead            51        70         93          95         97       lOO.4       104.0       lOo..o 104.0           16..
eD)  Taccneas, ieneral       9°0"               23        32         42         83          13.6      45.2       B6.o          46.S      46.9        16.6
(c)  V,e-rinary Supplies      15  "              12        16         21         21          21.8      22.6       23.4          23.4      23.4        23.6
(d)  Salt and Licks          90                  23        32         42         43          43        b5.2       46.3         56.3       56.8        46.S
aUB-TOTAL                   B25   n             109       150        198         202        20.S     213         221          221        221         221
3. Ylalnteear,ee & Repaire, Buildings
(a)  3alldin,gs, Fences, Water                  -         53         79          86         86       86          86            b6        66          o6
suPplies
Ve) Veh:cles & Machinery          _             500       500         500        500        500      500         500           500       500         500
SUB-TOTAL                          -            500       553        579         586        586      586         586           586       566         586
6.  'enerl alepenses
(a)  Office                    25,000            25        2          2          2 
(b)  MIUcellaneous                25             2Î        2>         2>         ~          2
566-TOcTAL                         -             50        50          50         50         50      5           5z1           50        50          50
S.  Cattie Purchases           (FMû 000)
(a)  Bull.                       25              -          -         -          25          25       25          25           25         25          25
SUB-JT.1u                          -             -          -         -           25         25       25          25           25         25          25
TOTAL oTUD                         -          1, 78     1,83v       1i  a      2,o059     2,063    2,185       2,193         2,193     2,193       2,193
B. SEEDS CINTRA
a. Salari-, , dases           (FMO '000)
(aTrc Dr3Tiver/            153 - 180            150       160        165        170         175      180         180          180       10          580
'Iechanic
(o)  Laboarer 3/            60                  120       120        120        120         120      120         120          126        120         120
(c)  Scial charges                               40        42         43         44         W6        45          45           45         45          45
2.tainienace 1 Repairs
a    11. OineS                 -                -          5         57         57          57       57          57           57         57          r7
())  Venicles &7Machinery       -               400       400        400        400         boo      400         400          500       800          400
3.7eeral 'esxpses
ia)  i'iscellaneous              25             25        25         25          25         25       25          25            25        25          25
TOTAL 5 1DS                                     735      752          810       816        8si       827         827           827       827         827
TOTAL ST'fl kD 3àSD3                           2,475    2,586      2,718      2,815       2,8Bh    3,012      3,020          3,020     3,020       3,020
1/   Anc tai4 ;usy
2/ Inn
3/ TaN
W/   Local parch"ae fra K-la   asoA or inter-ranch sales.






MÀL&GASY RE?UBLIO BEEF CA&TTLE DEVx1nPoeT PMRJXCT
0evelopment of Inrrastiuctsire
Investioent Cost Propect&ea
Unit         Unit Costs         Total           Total              0e~elopment   ,in                  Total Costs              Foreign Exchange Component
(FMO '000>         Unita           Costa             lear 1         Tear 2              US$ _%uivalent            _______         (US$ '00o)
No-           (F'I '000)                                            TUs$~- '000
1.  Access Trails l/                        Km.            160              25             >h,000             2,000         2,000                   16.0                       60            9.6
Sub.-total                                           -               25              L,,O00             2, 000        2,000                   16.0-                                    9.6
2.  Stock Routes 2/                        No
(a)  Tsirol-Tananarive                              2,600              10             26,000             18,000         8,000                  10ù.0                       60            2.
(b)  Ranches - Tsiro                    "2,600                          2              5,200                -           5,200                   20.8                       60           12.5
(c)  Land Rovers 3/                     "800                            i                 800               800           -                      3.2                       95            3.0
Sub-total                                           -                 -             32,000             18,800        13,200                 128.0                         -77.9
Contingencies                                ---L,000                                                         2,300         1,700.                  16.o                        -             9.7
Total                                                      -                               ù,000             23,100        16,900                  160.                        61           97.2
1/ Access Traile to ranches in reasonable order. Figure quoted is for mitnimumx access, Land Rover tyoe.
2/ Stock route water needed on basis of about 20 km       intervals depending on natural supplies; for each rest point       1 hause, 1 shed for hay, other fencing and water supply.
3/1 Stock route supervisioyn. Capital cost of vehicles only. Sunerrision to be goverrnment, not Project function.






ANNEX 8
Table 16
MALAGASY REPUBLIC BEEF GATTLE DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Development of Infrastructure
Financial Projections
(FMG '000)
ITEM            YEAR:   1          2          3          4           5-20
1. Cash Outflow
Investment             23,100     16,900        --         --         --
2.  Cash Innflowl/           -                                 --        5,000
3. Cash Balance            (23,100)   (16,900)      --         -_        5,000
1/- Charge collected by project for use of stock route Tsiroanomandidy-
Tananarive at full development of pastures - 100 FMG per head.
Three years for pasture development. One year use without charge.
Annual non-ranch cattle flow of 50,000 head.






MALAGASY REPUBLIC BEEF CATTLE DEVEIDPMENT PROJECT
Administration Costs
(FIvD '000)
1/
Part A Development Costs
ITEM                    YEAR:            1          2           3          4          5         TOTAL
2/
General Manager:   Salary                      4,5oo      4,500       4,500      4,5oo      4,500       22,500
General Manager: Travel2/                        625        625         625        625        625        3,125
Manager:  Salary4/                             5,000     10,000      10,000      5,000        -          30,000
Manager:  Travel-!                             1,200      2,4oo       2,400      1,200        -           7,200
11,325     17,525      17,525     11,325      5,125       62,825
Contingencies                                    850        850         850        850        350        3,750
TOTAL Part A                                  12,175     18,375      18,375     12,175      5,475       66,575
1/ These costs composed of salaries and international travels of internationally recruited staff required for
headquarter administration and four breeding-fattening ranches during the 5-year development period.
2/  Internationally recruited, US$18,000 tax-free per annum, including allowances.    Five-year appointment for
one man.
3/  Home leave for General Manager and f amily every two years.  Average annual cost US$2,500.
h/  Non-Malagasy, Us$10,000 tax-free per annum.   Two recruited in Year 1 and two in Year 2, each for
three-year appointment.
_/ Travel includes arrival, departure and one home leave.






iALAGASY REPUBLIC BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPIIENT PROJECT
Administration Costs
(FMG '000)
1/
Part B Local Administration
6/
ITEM            YEAR-           1          2          3        4         5         Total      6-20
2/
Assistant General M4anager  -            200       1,200     1,300    1,300     1,400       6,4oo      1,400
Admin. Assistant:   Salary3/              800        800       800      800       800        h,ooo        800
Driver:  Salary4/                         250        250       250      250       250       1,250        250
Secretarial Staff5/                      350         350       350      350       350       1,750        350
Per diem expenses                        600         800       800      600       400       3,200        100
Office expenses                           500        500       500      500       500       2,500        400
Transport,ation expenses                  500        500       500      500       500       2,500        500
Office furniture                          500        -         -        -         -           500        -
Office equipment                          325         50        25      -         -           400        _
Vehicle                                  600         -         -        -         -           600         -
5,525      4,450     4,525    4,300     4,200       23,100      3,800
Contingencies                            425         425       h25      425       325       3,025        200
TOTAL Part B                           6,050       4,785     4,950    4,725     4,525      25,125      4,ooo
1/ These costs composed of local salaries, equipment and transportation for headquarters administration.
2/ Will replace expatriate 0eneral Manager after five years.
3/ M`la,gasy.
!â/ Driver and ?4essenger.                                                                                      F C
$/ Steno/rypist .
D/ Incliued in the consolidated financial projections of the ranches after year 5
(see -~nnex ° - Tables 18 and 19).






AÂLAGASY REPUBLIC BEEF CATTLE DEVELOC0KET PI9OJECT
Fi-ancial proJections for four breeding  catte-tg ranches, tac fatteci9g ranches ans    one stuù ranntcd-h :o  eds ceter
(F9R3 '330)
leare                         1            2              3           L          S          6            7           8           9          10         il        12         13          lh              15                16-22
i.  Cash Ootflîn
a.  Inveetment            203,LO5      185,085      186.i60       62,LOO     26,200       -            -          -                                                              -                     -                 -
b.  Llvestock purchase       -          18,510        59,220     123,650    158,360     163 208    1l3,578      120,998     -L 1'M      70,098     59,238    59,238     59,238        9,238         59,2382
c   Operating coste..      16 557       33,iS50      50 78L       56,129     59,8B6     65.152      63 coo      52,171.     <.1u       62,702     62, 752   62,75o     62,900       62,936         62,936            6 ,91
d.       Ttal             219,962       237,075     276,1.61    2L2,179     2Lù, if16  228,36)     2C7,2LL     l83,172    157,256     132,800    121,990   121,906    022,138                      122,17i1          122.17h
2.  Cash Inflou
a.  Sale3-9                  -          28,956        88,921     162,958    217,872    226,86B     228,376     23M,771    2i8.979     170,162    167,853   185,225    205,669       209,971        217,621           221,698
b. G.sernmnt invest-       24,Lh9       22,2L7        22,hl3       7,590      3,11L9
c.  Bank loan_/           178,956      162,838      16L O,7      5b,900      23,051
d.       rotai            203,Lo5      21L,OL1      275,38L     225,358     2Lh,1072   226,868     223,076     231h,777   218, 97     190,062     167,853  185,225    205,669      209,971        217,621            221,698
3. Cash Balance                  (16,557)     (23,031)     (21,080)    (16,821)      (37b)     (1,L92)     20,832      51,608     61.Î23      57,262     1.5,863   63,229     83,531       87,797         95,Lh7            99,521.
L. Lan Service1 -                              11,633       22,216      32,880      36,1L8     37,996      37,9L6      37,986     37,9h6      67,883     67,883    67,883     67,883       67,883         67,883            67,883
5. CaSh Balance alter Lan       (16,557)      (34,667)     (L3,296)    (19,701)    (36,822)   (39,L88)    (17,11I)    13,6552`    23,777     (10,621)   (22,020)   (L,65L)   -15,618       19,91L         87,564            31,641
Service
6.  Interest oS Casbh halanco/                                                                                            273      1,033       1,337        738       231        463        1,193          2,190               -
7. Accumlted Cash B.1-ce V                                                                                            13,932     38,712      29,1.58     8,176     3,756     19,867       L0,971         70,728
1/  Operating costs include F9G L million annually beginning year six for pro-jot administration touts
7/  Sales occur at end of year; cash inflou only asailable during follnuiog year
3/ 12% nf total invest.snt during the fir3t fi-e yeara
!/ 88% of total i-vest-ent during the fir3t five yeara
i  6.5% interest during years 2 - 9; during years 10 - 22 qi.al annuities inlundig princIpal and itterest
S/ L;% intsrest
7/  The negative cash balances dcring the first seven years are included in working capital, therefore,
they are paid by the Goverse,nt.






MALAGAST REPURIiC BHW cATLE DEVHOPKENT PROJE1T
FINANRtIA RATE OF RETUNI
Financial
Closisg       Rate or Retruc
Yser:    1         2          3         ^>       5         6         7         8        9         10         il       12       13       14        15-20         Valuation       Over 20 Years
.(.............................. . .. .                    . .ooo) ........................................
One Breeding-Fattening Ranch
Capital costs                      67,000    24,700    12,300      -                    -
Livestock purchase                            9,270    20,340    30,705    28,575    23,910    18,760    12,620    5,680       250       250       250      250      250       250
Total   ostes                       74,041    2,391     8,729    10,140    10,303     9'512     9,556     9,621    9,678      9,753     973       9,750    9,7V2    9,20      9774
Total costa               ~~~~~~74,041ù  42,361  L1,369  40,845   38,878    33,422    28,316    22,231    15,358    1G, 003    9,6      l90,6    îo,oeh   10 lo3b   io, q2
Total sales               12,978    28,476    35,594    40,666    39,740    37,550    31,797    25,263    17,225    1,7       2576      2'f      238      2V         7,6
Baur lanches, B lances/           (61,063)   (3,885)   (5,775)     (179)      862     4,128     3,781     3 032    1,867          3    19: 7     14,                                                               0
ForRnches, Balance-           (122,126)   tg9,:6   (19,320)  (1,0)       1,366    9,980    15,218    13,026     9,798    11,802    39,654    59;,Io   6o,Bdst  68,568    71,*1          36941.
une Fattening Ranch
Capital costs                      56,000    18,900    13,100       -        -          -         -        -          -         -
Livestock purchase                           10,780    19,900    29,119    29,119    29,119    29,119    29,119    29,119    29,119    29,119    29,119   29,119   29,119    29,119
Toetaln costs                       693       778       808       925        ,25       ,40      8,410     8,410     8,410     8,410     8,410     8,410    8,410    8,410     8,410
Total ostal                        62,913    37,438    41,058    38,374    38,374    37,529    37,529    37,529    37,529    37,529    37,529    37,529   37,529   37,529    37,529
Total sales                        13,720    29,060    29,400    33,112     1, 216   48,472    48,472    48,472    48,472    48,472    48,472    48,472   48,472   48,472    48,472
Balance                           (49,193)    (8,358)  (1i,658)   (5,262)   5,842'   10,943    10,943    10 943    10,943    10,943    10,943    10,943   10,943   10,943    10,943
Two Ranches, Balance-                                 (83)(16,716)        (23,316)  (10,524)   11,684    21,886    21,886    21,886    21,886    21,886   21,886   21,886    21,886          78,984                5
Six Ranches, Balance2'           (122,126) (129,896) (117,706)   (28,624)  (21,950)    (544)   23,472    31,48Z    28,456     30,258    58.110    78.122   709761  87.024     90.144        475.928              9.9
Stud Ranch and Seed Center
Capital Costa                      69,405     1,685       460      -          -          -        -          _       _            _        _          _      _         _
Total operating costs               2,475     2,586     2,718     2,875     2,884     3,012     3,590     3,590     3,590      3,590    3,590     3,590    3,590    3,590     3,590
Total s»)es                                   3,000     6,016     7,378     7,192     7,256     7,272     7,651     7,915      8,142     8 385    8,715    9.171   12,163    12,970
Balance_                          (71,880)    (1,271)   2,838     4,503     4,308     4,244     3,682     4,061     4,325      4,552    4,795     5,125     5,581    8,573     9,380         26,178              5.7
Infrastraucture
Investoent                         23,100    16,900       -         -          -       -         -         -          -          -         -         -        -        -         -
Cash inflow                                                                 5,000     5,000     5,000     5,000     5,000      5,000     5,000     5,000    5,000   5,000      5,000
Balance                           (23,100)   (16,900)     -         -       5,000       5,000     5,000     5,000    5,000      5,000    5,000     5,000    5,0000  5,000      5,oOO                             6.9
Project Adsinistraticn                  6,050     4,875     4,950     4,725     4,525     4,000     4,000     4,000     4,000      4,000     4,000     4,000   4,000    4,000      4,000
BALANCE                              (223,056) (152,942) (1l1,818)  (28,846)  (17,167)    4,700    32,154    40,543    37,781     39,810    67,905   88,247    89,841  100,597  1ic,524          502,106             7.5
I/ Taking phaaing into account.
2/ After year 6 administration cost it includeda 1/7ia charged to the Stud Ranch and Seed Center and67is charged to the six ranches.






MADAGAS CA R
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF RANCHES
AND    STOCK      ROUTES           4                    - LDe9o-Suorez
50 25 O50   100  150 200250km                        Am
Scale: 1/3.500.000                                  -<
C,4 *-     ~ oAntsohihy               Antlciho
oBesolompy
Ambatonomnty
M ainfirGofoI.-
ù   /      =        <       <  m   oto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mtve
i 0érain{S0nvo   ?roJect breeding / fattening ranches
\+ \ ,03  4     .               ~~~~~~* ProJect fattening ranches
. Dy >   n-            Dauphin lEZŽ   Breeding / Pattenlng
.:             |S\\] U~~~~~tilization / Conaumption
->.- Main cattle monvements
So eat works existljng or proposed
Main roads
JUNE 1968                                                                                IBRD Z32tRl



