Report No. PIC729
Project Name                     India-Tuberculosis Control Project (@)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Health
Project ID                       INPA10473
Borrower                         India, acting by its President
Implementing Agency              Government of India, State Governments
and Municipal Corporations
Ministry of Health
Room #345 A-Wing, Gate #5
Nirman Bhawan
New Delhi 110001
Appraisal Date                   January 1996
Board Date                       March 14, 1997
Date PID Prepared                August 18, 1997
1.      Project Objectives. The objectives of the project will be to
reduce mortality, morbidity and disability due to TB by curing TB
cases, thereby reducing the incidence of infectious TB, the annual
risk of infection and the development of drug resistance.
Specifically, the project will: (a) diagnose and treat a minimum of
1.9 million TB cases including more than 800,000 smear-positive and
severe TB cases; and (b) achieve cure rates of at least 859 of
newly-diagnosed smear-positive cases in the RNTP districts, the
rates achieved in the pilot sites; c) provide treatment with daily
short-course chemotherapy to 850,000 smear positive patients in the
SCC districts and prepare those districts to adopt the revised
strategy; (d) treat about 230,000 smear-positive patients with
conventional drugs in non-SCC districts; (e) improve diagnosis to
reach at least 50t smear-positive cases as a percentage of total
diagnosed cases in RNTP and SCC districts; and (f) improve the
system of patient registration and follow-up to allow monitoring of
treatment completion and cure in the SCC districts.
2.      Project Description. The project will finance activities and
inputs under three main components: (i) improving the quality,
access and outcomes of TB treatment; (ii) developing institutional
and operational research capacity and enhancing technical,
managerial and interpersonal skills; and (iii) developing
information, communication and outreach activities and promoting
community involvement. Overall, the project will initiate a shift
in the epidemiological profile of tuberculosis in India by focusing
on the cure of infectious patients.
3.      Project Scope. The Project will constitute a time-slice
financing of the national TB Control Program over five years with
the purpose of setting up the institutional and managerial
infrastructure to establish the Revised Strategy for Tuberculosis
Control (RNTP) in a larger scale, and to facilitate its gradual



expansion to the entire country within an 8-12 year time frame.
3.1     The project will strengthen the National TB Program for
the entire country through the following interventions:(a) full
implementation of the Revised Strategy for TB control (RNTP) in 102
districts; (b) strengthening of the National TB Program (NTP) in
203 districts now nominally under short-course chemotherapy (SCC),
in preparation for initiating RNTP activities in the future; and
(c) strengthening provision of services under conventional TB
treatment in 154 non-SCC districts. This will involve modification
of Program policies and procedures through new operational and
technical guidelines, strengthening of the National and State
Tuberculosis Demonstration Centers, strengthening of the central,
state and district TB units, establishment of the required
management systems for implementation of the RNTP, improved and
expanded selection, training and retraining of staff, improved drug
procurement, planning, storage and distribution, rigorous
monitoring and supervision, and effective communication and
information systems.
4.      Project Implementation. The project will be implemented in a
decentralized fashion through the structure of the National
Tuberculosis Control program, the existing health system at the
state level and below, and NGOs experienced with community
participation and health sector activities.
5.      Project Cost and Financing. The project will be centrally
sponsored. The total cost of the project is estimated at RS 7,492.8
million or US$176.4 million equivalent including taxes and duties
estimated at US$88.1 million. The IDA portion of the financing
arrangements amounts to about 86.1 percent of the total project
costs net of taxes. The Government of India will finance the
remaining costs of US$22.9 million plus all taxes and duties
(US$11.1 million).
6.      Environmental and Social Aspects. The project will not
present any major environmental concerns. It will make adequate
provision for disposal of hospital waste where relevant. Concerning
the social aspects, one of the project's special emphases is in
providing services to the most disadvantaged populations, in
particular, urban slum and tribal areas. Two social assessments of
tuberculosis in India were commissioned by the Government of India
and demonstrated that a major barrier in TB control is the
financial constraints of the poor to pay for the medicines,
transportation or doctor's fees and that the poor were the larger
users of government facilities. The project design will reduce
these barriers and increase the credibility of the Government's TB
health care system.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 2 -



Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 22, 1997.
- 3 -



