                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34692

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-29360 PPFI-P8940)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$96.7 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                                  INDIA

                                                 FOR A

                                TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROJECT




                                              June 29, 2006




Human Development Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective 01/16/2006)

                            Currency Unit = Rupee
                               Rupee 44.2 = US$ 1.00
                                 US$ 1.00 = Rupee 0.222

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                April 1   - March 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFB       Acid Fast Bacilli
AIDS      Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ARTI      Annual Risk of Tuberculosis Infection
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDC       Centers for Disease Control
CHC       Community Health Center
CTD       Central Tuberculosis Division
CTI       Central Training Institutes
DANIDA    Danish Development Agency
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DDG       Deputy Director General
DEA       Department of Economic Affairs
DFID      Department for International Development
DGHS      Director General of Health Services
DOTS      Directly-Observed Therapy (Short Course)
DRS       Drug Resistance Surveillance
DTC       District Tuberculosis Center
DTCS      District TB Control Societies
DTO       District Tuberculosis Officer
EQA       External Quality Assurance
GFATM     Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria
GDF       Global Drug Facility
GOI       Government of India
HIV       Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HSCC      Hospital Services Consultancy Corporation
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Agency
IEC       Information, Education and Communication
IFPMA     International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations
IMA       Indian Medical Association
INMED     International Medical Services for Health
IPC       Inter-Personal Communication
IRL       Intermediate Reference Laboratories
IUATLD    International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases
KAP       Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
LCC       Long Course Chemotherapy

MDH      Millennium Development Goals
MIS      Management Information System
MO       Medical Officer
MOHFW    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MoU      Memorandum of Understanding
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NIH      National Institutes of Health
NTI      National Tuberculosis Institute
NTCP     National Tuberculosis Control Program
ODA      Overseas Development Administration (now DFID)
OR       Operations Research
PHC      Primary Health Center
PHRD     Japanese Policy and Human Resource Development
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PP       Private Practitioners
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PPM      Public-Private Mix
PWB      Patient-wise Box
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RNTCP    Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program
SA       Social Assessments
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SCC      Short Course Chemotherapy
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SIDA     Swedish International Development Agency
STO      State Tuberculosis Officer
SDTC     State Demonstration and Training Center
STCS     State TB Control Societies
STDC     State Training and Demonstration Center
STLS     Senior Tuberculosis Laboratory Supervisor
STS      Senior Tuberculosis Supervisor
TB       Tuberculosis
TRC      Tuberculosis Research Center
TU       Tuberculosis Unit
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
VCTC     Voluntary Counseling and Testing Center
WHO      World Health Organization

                                           DEFINITIONS

Acid Fast Bacilli:          The bacteria that causes tuberculosis, also known as Mycobacterium (M.)
                            tuberculosis. The term "acid fast" refers to the fact that a harsh staining
                            procedure is required for the bacteria to be microscopically visible.

Annual Risk of Tuberculosis
 Infection (ARTI)           The annual risk of TB infection is the probability that any individual will be
                            infected or re-infected in one year with M. tuberculosis. The annual risk of
                            infection has become the standard indicator of the tuberculosis burden in a
                            population.

Bacillae Calmette-Guerin
(BCG):                      Bacillae Calmette-Guerin. An attenuated strain of M. bovis (or bovine type
                            M. tuberculosis) first used as a vaccine in 1921 by Drs. Albert Calmette
                            and Camille Guerin

Case Detection:            There are two types of case detection, active and passive. Active Case
                           Detection refers to outreach activities in which the health service providers
                           actively search for new TB cases through screening examinations
                           (radiographic or sputum). Passive Case Detection is when new TB cases are
                           detected among the population who present themselves at health facilities
                           with symptomatic complaints.

Directly-Observed Therapy-
Short Course Strategy
(DOTS):                    The Directly-Observed Therapy-Short Course strategy, the current strategy
                           of treatment recommended by WHO. The major features of the strategy are:
                           (a) accurate patient diagnosis through accurate history taking followed by
                           high quality sputum microscopy, to determine the appropriate category of
                           TB patient and treatment regimen; (b) good communication between service
                           provider and patient; (c) appropriate dispensation of medicines under direct
                           observation to guarantee treatment adherence for a period of six to eight
                           months; (d) strict follow up and evaluation to ensure sputum conversion to
                           non-infectious status; and (e) rigorous registration, supervision and
                           monitoring system to evaluate treatment outcomes and risks.

Epidemiology:              The study of the distribution and determinants of diseases and injuries in
                           human populations. It is concerned with the frequencies and types of
                           illnesses and injuries in groups of people and with the factors that influence
                           their distribution.

Incidence:                  Number of new cases of a disease or condition over a period of time
                            (usually a year) as a proportion of the population at risk at midpoint of the
                            time period.

Long-Course Chemotherapy

(LCC):                     Tuberculosis treatment, recommended by WHO in 1974. It is a
                           chemotherapy regimen that is administered for twelve to eighteen months
                           using drugs such as isoniazid, streptomycin and thiacetazone.

Prevalence:                Number of cases of a disease or condition at a given point in time (point
                           prevalence) as a proportion of the total population.

Short-Course Chemotherapy
(SCC):                     Tuberculosis treatment that lasts from six to eight months, using multiple
                            drugs, such as, isoniazid, rifampicin, ethambutol and pyrazinamide.
                            Short-Course Chemotherapy converts most patients to smear negative
                            faster than the long course chemotherapy. It is also more effective because
                            of higher cure rates and higher compliance. It leads to a rapid reduction in
                            the risk of infection and the incidence of tuberculosis.

Smear-Negative Patient:    A tuberculosis patient with radiographic abnormalities consistent with
                            active pulmonary tuberculosis, but with at least three negative sputum
                            specimens for the AFB.

Smear-Positive Patient:    A tuberculosis patient with two sputum specimens positive for the AFB, or
                            with one sputum specimen positive for the AFB and radiographic
                            abnormalities consistent with active pulmonary tuberculosis.




                                  Vice President:       Praful Patel
                               Country Director:        Michael F. Carter
                                 Sector Manager:        Anabela Abreu
                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Sadia A. Chowdhury

                                            INDIA
                                TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report Contribution                               34

Project ID: P010473                                                  Project Name: TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL
Team Leader: Sadia Afroze Chowdhury                                  TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-29360; PPFI-P8940
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (91%); Sub-national government administration (5%); Central government
                            administration (3%); Other industry (1%)
                  Theme: Other communicable diseases (P); Health system performance (P); Indigenous peoples (S);
                            Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/31/1993                                     Effective: 03/14/1997                04/14/1997
     Appraisal: 10/15/1996                                         MTR:                             06/01/2000
      Approval: 01/30/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 03/31/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of India/Central TB Division of the Ministry of Health and Family
                                           Welfare
                      Other Partners:      WHO, DANIDA and DFID

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Robert Drysdale
Sector Manager:                 Anabela Abreu                                  Richard Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:             Sadia A. Chowdhury                             Maria Donoso Clark
ICR Primary Author:             Sadia Afroze Chowdhury; Sati
                                Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background.

A National Tuberculosis Control Program (NTCP) had been in place in India since 1962. The basic
feature of the program was drug treatment in the form of Long-Course Chemotherapy (LCC). Although
very successful in its early years and providing lessons for the national programs of other countries, the
program saw diminishing gains over time. In 1992, a joint review of the program by the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA), the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Government of
India (GOI) recommended the introduction of a new approach to tuberculosis control, namely the Directly
Observed Treatment - Short Course (DOTS) approach. The new approach was expected to enhance
patient adherence to treatment and increase cure rates.

The new DOTS approach was first tested in India through a series of pilot projects starting in 1993, with
financing from SIDA and DFID and technical assistance from WHO and DANIDA. The results of the
pilots were very encouraging. Through September 1996, the pilot projects had treated close to 16,000
patients in a population of roughly 12 million, with cure rates as high as 92% in some of the pilot sites and
an average of 80% for all the sites. These cure rates were much higher than those achieved using the
standard chemotherapy treatment, which WHO had estimated at about 35% in the public sector. The GOI
then decided that the new DOTS approach to tuberculosis control would gradually replace the traditional
approach throughout the country, and introduced the term Revised National Tuberculosis Control
Program (RNTCP) to refer to the new approach. The IDA-financed Tuberculosis Control Project,
approved by the Board in early 1997, was to assist in the expansion of the RNTCP to a population of
about 270 million.

Project Objective.

The objectives and design of the project need to be seen in the context of (i) a 30 year old National
Tuberculosis Control Program, which saw diminishing gains over time and needed to be strengthened; (ii)
A joint SIDA, WHO and GOI review in 1992, recommending the Directly Observed Treatment - Short
Course (DOTS) program as the revised national tuberculosis program (RNTCP) (iii) pilots implemented to
test the technical and managerial feasibility of implementing the RNTCP on a larger scale in India.

The project development objectives were to: (i) improve the effectiveness of TB control by expanding the
DOTS strategy; (ii) reduce mortality, morbidity and disability due to TB; and (iii) reduce the incidence of
TB by focusing on the cure of infectious patients.

The objectives were clear, important to the country's social and economic development, and realistic in
scale and scope. They were also timely and appropriate to the needs of the Borrower, considering that the
project specifically aimed to improve diagnosis, treatment and cure rates through the RNTCP; preparing
the districts using implementing SCC to adopt the revised strategy; improve treatment in non-SCC districts
with conventional drugs; and, improve the overall system of patient registration and follow up of treatment
completion and cure.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India, which
emphasized the development of India's human capital resources, thought to be critical for promoting faster
economic growth. It was in keeping with the Bank's health sector strategy to reduce the burden of disease



                                                     - 2 -

from major public health problems, strengthen state health systems and promote health sector reforms to
provide more efficient and effective health care, particularly for the poor.

However, further clarification of the objectives, reflecting the need to strike a balance between a strong
central management unit, and decentralization for effective implementation, as well as the need of a
stronger procurement process to ensure constant supply of drugs and equipment, could have prevented the
subsequent hiatus and slow performance of the project.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components. The design of the components was clearly linked to the objectives
described above as demonstrated by the lessons from the pilot These pointed to the need for: (i) a broader
project scope in order to elicit the political will needed for successful TB control; (ii) a strong Central
Management Unit to provide clear and decisive leadership and management direction; (iii) creative
institutional arrangements needed to adopt the revised strategy; (iv) an effective training program needed to
implement the new technical approach; and (v) a strong involvement of the private sector and NGOs given
the important role the private sector plays in health care in India.

The components are as follows:

Component I: Improving the Quality, Access and Outcomes of Tuberculosis Treatment (US$130.0
million, 85% of total baseline costs)

The project was to provide services under three different TB treatment approaches. A certain set of
districts was assigned to each of the three approaches, as indicated below.

(i) Directly Observed, Short-Course Chemotherapy (DOTS)/Revised National Tuberculosis Control
Program (RNTCP). This sub-component envisaged the provision of the full DOTS package of services in
102 districts, which would be known as "RNTCP districts". Of these 102 districts, 89 were already using
the SCC approach (but not the full DOTS approach), and 13 were using the traditional LCC approach.
These 102 districts had a combined population of 271 million (in 15 states). The full DOTS approach
involved: (a) accurate patient diagnosis through accurate history taking and high quality sputum
microscopy, to determine the appropriate category of TB patient and treatment regimen; (b) good
communication between service provider and patient; (c) appropriate dispensation of medicine under direct
observation to guarantee patient adherence for the full course of treatment (i.e., a period of six to eight
months); (d) strict follow up and evaluation to ensure sputum conversion to non-infectious status; and (e)
rigorous registration, supervision and monitoring to evaluate treatment outcomes and risks.

The project aimed to expand the involvement of NGOs and private practitioners (PPs) in the RNTCP
districts. Certain inputs would be provided to those NGOs and PPs who adopted the RNTCP strategy and
agreed to notify cases to the Government. The inputs were to include free drugs, training, educational
materials, diagnostic facilities, treatment evaluation, and drug supplies for referrals. NGOs and PPs were
also to be involved in operations research activities related to service delivery and enter into contracts with
the government to provide comprehensive RNTCP services at district or sub-district levels.

(ii) Standard Short-Course Chemotherapy. Under this sub-component, the project was to finance inputs
and activities to strengthen existing TB services and introduce certain features of the revised (DOTS)



                                                       - 3 -

strategy in 203 districts that were operating nominally under the SCC approach but lacked SCC drugs to
provide appropriate services for smear-positive patients. Through the project, such districts would receive
a regular supply of the required drugs. The 203 districts would also adopt the diagnostic and registration
system of the RNTCP in preparation for full transition to the revised strategy.

(iii) Long-Course Chemotherapy. This sub-component involved financing a regular supply of LCC drugs
to smear positive patients in 154 non-SCC districts in order to improve the quality of treatment under the
traditional approach to TB control.

Component II: Capacity Building and Skills Enhancement         1




This project component included a range of interventions to improve the program's capacity and enhance
staff skills. The main interventions and expected outputs are summarized below in tabular form.




                                                    - 4 -

    Area of Intervention                                Expected Outputs
Central Level Managerial     A strengthened Central Tuberculosis Division (CTD) within the
Capacity                     MOHFW capable of providing able program leadership.
State Level Managerial       Setting up of State TB Cells headed by a State Tuberculosis Officer
Capacity                     (STO) and with a complement of staff, capable of effectively
                             overseeing implementation of the project in the state.
District Level Managerial    Strengthened District Tuberculosis Centers (DTCs) capable of
Capacity                     effectively managing the provision, supervision and monitoring of
                             TB control services in the respective districts.
Sub-District Institutional   Establishment of sub-district Tuberculosis Units (TUs) at existing
Infrastructure               CHCs or sub-district hospitals (one TU per 300,000-500,000
                             population) to serve as the link between the District level and the
                             periphery. TUs would also be established in the cities.
                             Establishment of a cluster of 4 to 5 Microscopy Centers for TB
                             diagnostic work for each TU. Introduction of DOTS treatment at all
                             health centers.
District Tuberculosis        Establishment of District TB Societies to provide administrative
Societies                    support to the program.
Management Information       Establishment of an effective MIS for the program that would enable
System (MIS)                 the production of accurate and timely program performance reports.
Operations Research          Implementation of an Operations Research (OR) program that
Capacity                     would: identify the main OR priorities for TB in the next ten years
                             and develop appropriate research protocols; establish a system for
                             designing, developing and implementing OR projects; design and
                             initiate a researcher training program; establish a mechanism for the
                             incorporation of research findings into the program; and carry out a
                             minimum of four OR studies during the five years of the project.
Central Training Institutes  Several high-profile TB-related institutes, such as the National TB
                             Institute in Bangalore and the Tuberculosis Research Center in
                             Madras, were to be designated "Central Training Institutes (CTIs)"
                             for the program and strengthened. Each of the CTIs was to cover a
                             certain set of districts designated by the Central TB Division, and
                             would be responsible for training trainers, monitoring and evaluating
                             actual training, and producing training materials. They would also
                             ensure quality of laboratory work in their respective districts.
State Demonstration and      Sixteen strengthened State Demonstration and Training Centers
Training Centers             (SDTCs) capable of effectively training staff in the districts and
                             conduct surveillance of drug resistant cases.
Staff Training               Implementation of a program to train staff for the RNTCP at all
                             levels. Over the project period, the program aimed to train 239
                             district TB officers, 14,989 medical officers, 501 senior tuberculosis
                             laboratory supervisors, 5,062 laboratory supervisors, 17,721 multi-
                             purpose health supervisors, and 49,744 multi-purpose health
                             workers/TB health visitors (Annex 9 of SAR).

Component III: Developing Information, Education and Communication, and Promoting Outreach
Activities and Community Involvement (US$5.9 million, 4% of total baseline costs).

Component III had two sub-components, as follows.



                                                 - 5 -

(i) Information, Education and Communication. The purpose of this sub-component was to promote a
better understanding of TB and its cure, a greater awareness of services available, and to reduce the stigma
associated with TB. Outputs were to include: (a) training in IEC to strengthen state and central IEC cells
specific to the TB program; (b) production of educational and counseling materials for health providers in
the public and private sectors; (c) production and distribution of a newsletter with information on the
program, including state and district performance and medical/clinical norms; (d) development of
counseling materials for patients; and (e) development of materials for opinion leaders and the public to
sensitize them to the problems faced by TB sufferers and to create a more favorable social environment for
them. The project's IEC efforts were to be coordinated nationally by an IEC advisory committee and an
IEC specialist hired for this purpose at the central level.

(ii) Promoting Outreach Activities and Community Involvement. This sub-component was geared
primarily to promoting better TB care by NGOs and private practitioners and involving the community in
TB control. This was to be done by conducting seminars, workshops and conferences through the Indian
Medical Association (IMA) and other professional organizations. In addition, NGOs working on TB were
to be included in policy planning and implementation. Cured patients would be invited to receive training
in counseling in order to participate in interpersonal communication activities as volunteer educators and
counselors for other TB patients and symptomatic community members. Similarly, several outreach
activities were to be implemented involving Panchayats, women's groups, NGOs and grass-roots
organizations in supporting the DOTS approach and helping TB patients.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project was restructured in 2002. Sub-components (ii) and (iii) of Component I were discarded, and a
decision was taken that sub-component (i) ­the DOTS approach--was to be expanded to cover a
population of 700 million by the end of the project (rather than the original 270 million). For those areas
not covered under the project, the Government sought and obtained financial assistance from DFID,
DANIDA, USAID and GFATM. A major shift in implementation strategy was the decentralization of the
management of the program, under which the funds were routed to District Societies through the State
Societies.

The project was extended three times, for a total period of 39 months. The first extension was for a period
of 21 months, from December 31, 2002 to September 30, 2004. The main reason for this extension was
the fact that disbursements were suspended from March 1998 to March 2000. Along with the first
extension, an amount of SDR 27.9 million was reallocated from Category 2 (Drugs, Laboratory
Equipment, Goods and Vehicles) to Categories 3 and 4 (Consultant Services and Publicity), in order to
enable achievement of the much greater DOTS coverage by then envisaged.

The second extension was for a period of 12 months, from September 30, 2004 to September 30, 2005.
The main reason for this second extension was to permit the utilization of SDR 10.2 million of projected
savings (about US$14.9 million equivalent) that were reallocated in August 2004 to the polio eradication
program, requiring an amendment to the project's Credit Agreement.

The third extension was for six months, from September 30, 2005 to March 31, 2006. This was a partial
extension only to allow the project to complete procurement of TB drugs. In order to allow the
uninterrupted supply of these drugs, the government also requested that all unspent Credit proceeds,
amounting to about SDR 6.5 million, be reallocated to Category 2. The procurement was to be carried out
through the WHO's Global Drug Facility (GDF).




                                                      - 6 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Since the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) had good technical, financial, and
administrative capacity, the quality of project preparation was generally adequate. Quality at entry was
also enhanced by the fact that the WHO recommended Directly Observed Treatment ­Short Course
(DOTS) program was well accepted universally as most appropriate for ensuring patient adherence to
treatment and preventing development of drug resistance. The stand alone SCC treatment for TB control
were to be strengthened under the project as a transitional step to adoption of RNTCP, and the
conventional LCC (non-SCC) treatment were also to be strengthened in the remaining districts. Phases I
and II pilots implemented as a part of project preparation, helped to test the technical and managerial
feasibility of implementing the revised strategy on a larger scale; identify the major risk factors associated
with the new approach which could affect implementation, such as procurement delays, quality of drugs,
ability to affect behaviour change of providers and patients, etc. and find ways to mitigate them.They have
also provided the CTD with hands-on experience in running the new program, understanding the demands
and constraints involved and having the opportunity to make corrections as the project progressed.
Likewise, lessons learned from other earlier projects in the health sector in India and other countries were
also taken into account. WHO and DANIDA provided technical assistance during project preparation.

Two aspects of project design which became serious constraints to effective program implementation (see
Section 5.2) were (i) the centralization of decision making in the program and unclear role assigned to the
states; and, (ii) weak procurement capacity of the MOHFW. Procurement capacity had been among the
identified risks, however, no problems were experienced in this regard in the pilots. Centralization had not
been identified as a risk during project preparation, as the current experience at that time was the need to
ring-fence funds; provide strong central government support and "push through" projects using district level
administration.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which was discussed by the Board
on June 20, 1995 calling for support to the "GOI efforts in promoting economic growth through strong
private sector involvement and developing India's human capital resources". Compliance with the Bank's
safeguard policy to ensure access to the remote and marginalized population was also ensured through the
project design.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project is rated as satisfactory on achieving the development objective "to reduce mortality, morbidity
and disability due to TB by curing TB cases, thereby reducing the incidence of infectious TB, the annual
risk of infection, and the development of drug resistance". The major outcomes/achievements of the project
are described below.

The RNTCP program, which had begun on a pilot scale in 1993, gradually expanded until it was
introduced in all districts of the country by mid-2005, potentially serving a population of about 1,060
million . Of this total, about 730 million lived in districts supported by the project. This number exceeded
        2


the revised project target number of 700 million . The progression over time of the number of districts
                                                  3


supported by the project and their combined population is shown in the Table 1 below. It is likely that only
those who were "able" to access services within this population availed them. Those who were unable to
reach service providers or to adhere to the prescribed treatment schedule for various reasons, would have
remained underserved. The challenge for the follow on project will be in ensuring that states, districts or
population groups with special needs are well targeted. This includes providing additional resources, or
agreeing on a different service delivery strategy in poorer states{Empowered Action Group (EAG) and



                                                      - 7 -

North East (NE)}for poorer districts within states, or areas with geographical difficulties.

             Number of RNTCP Districts Supported by the Project and Their Population
                                          (coverage is cumulative)


                             Year         Districts covered       Population (in million)
                             1998                  36                        75
                             1999                  11                        24
                             2000                  84                       168
                             2001                  58                       106
                             2002                  59                        57
                             2003                  98                       154
                             2004                  65                        88
                             2005                  26                        25
                            Total                 450                       730




The end-of-project targets and corresponding actual or latest estimate figures for several Key Performance
Indicators are shown in Annex 1. In summary:

   l Initially it had been envisaged that, over the entire project period, public sector health services in
        the project districts would process 1.9 million cases where TB was suspected, a target that was
        later raised to 2.4 million. The actual estimated number was slightly over four million (see
        Borrower's Evaluation Report, Table 7). Patients would first undergo diagnostic tests to find out
        whether they were infectious (i.e., smear positive), and those found to be infectious were to be put
        on DOTS.

   l Similarly, it had been envisaged that, over the entire project period, about 800,000 patients would
        be put on DOTS treatment in the project districts, but the actual number was more than double this
        target, at almost 1.8 million patients (see Borrower's Evaluation Report, Table 6).

   l Also in 2004, a sputum positive case detection rate of 72% was achieved in the project districts
        against a target of 50% in the SAR  4




   l The cure rate for cases treated in project districts in 2004 reached 86%, slightly higher than the
        project's target of 85%. The public sector TB cure rate nationwide before the start of the project
        was only about 35%, which shows how large a difference the introduction of DOTS has brought.

   l The annualized case detection rate, which measures the degree of effectiveness of the program in
        finding cases of infectious TB among the general population, has been most recently estimated at
        138/100,000 (i.e., 138 cases found per 100,000 population), which fell somewhat short of the
        project's target of 145/100,000.

Data from recent studies conducted by TRC Chennai and NTI, Bangalore, have found that multi-drug
resistance levels in TB in India is between 0.5% to 3% in new cases and 12% in re-treatment cases.




                                                     - 8 -

The incidence of the disease as measured in 2003, has reduced from the previous estimate of 1.7% to 1.5%.
A repeat survey at 3-5 years intervals is planned to document impact on incidence

The program has also had a large effect on mortality from TB. Death rates have been reduced 7-fold in
DOTS areas versus non-DOTS areas. It is estimated that over 865,000 additional lives have been saved by
RNTCP so far. The latest WHO's Global Report on TB estimates the annual number of deaths from TB in
India to be less than 400,000, as compared with about 500,000 deaths per year before the project, with
total population being considerably smaller at that time.

As required for an effective TB control program, the RNTCP has given utmost importance to the detection
and treatment of smear positive (i.e., infectious) cases. The program estimates that the present incidence
of smear positive cases is about 0.8 million cases per year for the country as a whole. The real impact of
the program in any given area can be assessed only after effective DOTS coverage has been in place for
some time, say three to four years. The Tuberculosis Research Center at Chennai, has estimated an annual
rate of decline in the incidence of smear positive TB of about 9.4% in its study for 1999-2001 and
2001-2003 at Thiruvallur district in Tamil Nadu. Even if the annual rate of decline decreased to 5% over
time, the RNTCP would still be likely to meet the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) target of halting
and reversing the prevalence of TB by 2015.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: Improving the Quality, Access and Outcomes of Tuberculosis Treatment:
  Performance of this component is rated satisfactory.

Achievements in terms of the deployment of the DOTS approach have already been documented in the
  previous section.

In the early years of the project, support was also provided for the provision of services under the SCC
and LCC approaches:

(a) SCC. In 2000, the total number of smear positive cases under treatment was 592,979 as against a
target of 850, 000 and a completion rate of 40-55% as against the target of 60%. The total number cases
found to be smear positive among the total examined was 28.4% as against the target of 50%. A limited
number of districts were prepared for adoption of RNTCP and a there was limited improvement in patient
registration and follow up. As already explained, this line of treatment was abandoned when the project
was restructured.

(b) LCC. In 2000, the total number of smear positive cases under treatment was 319,296 as against a
target of 230,000 and a completion rate of 25-30%. This line of treatment was also abandoned when the
project was restructured.

NGOs and Private Sector Involvement in Service Delivery: The project has also been successful in
terms of fostering private sector involvement in TB control. Private practitioners are often the first point
of contact for approximately 60% of TB patients in India. To take advantage of this resource and widen
access to quality TB care, the RNTCP has been developing partnerships with the private health sector. As
of September 2005, over 9,700 private practitioners were officially providing RNTCP services. Also
worthy of mention is the involvement of NGOs in the program, mainly through providing assistance in
tracking and treatment follow-up of smear positive patients. As of the end of 2005, more than 1,600 NGOs
were involved in the program.




                                                     - 9 -

Help has also been mobilized from private enterprises outside the health sector. Over 100 such enterprises
have joined hands with the RNTCP, including for example sugar mills in Uttar Pradesh and tea estates in
West Bengal and Assam. Moreover, industry associations such as the Confederation of Indian Industry
and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry are also actively involved in promoting
TB control. Private companies have also initiated management of TB in the workplace. Employees
showing symptoms of TB are referred to the public or private sector for testing and treatment. In some
cases companies run their own treatment services following RNTCP guidelines, with drugs and other inputs
such as training provided by the RNTCP.

Component II: Capacity Building and Skills Enhancement: Performance of this component is rated
satisfactory. Expected outputs were presented in Section 3.3. Achievements are described below.

Development of the program's capacity for provision of DOTS services

Capacity-related outputs were achieved substantially in line with expectations. At the central level, the
capacity of the CTD was built up in terms of policy formulation, planning, and control and coordination of
state and district TB offices. At the State level, a State TB Cell was set up in each State/Territory, headed
by a State TB Officer and with a complement of staff. However their role was very limited.

The original design of the project provided for the direct transfer of funds from the GOI to the districts.
Similarly, the districts were directly supervised by the center, bypassing the state. Such a strategy had been
useful in the pilot phases (before the start of the project), as protocols were established and the feasibility
of the program was assessed. However, even after the program started to rapidly expand its coverage with
project support, this centralized form of management persisted.

The states' role in the project design therefore was unclear- on the one hand they were seen as responsible
for many aspects of project implementation. While on the other hand, the practice of releasing funds from
the Center to the districts had the effect of reducing the authority of the states and providing them with a
limited role to implement and monitor the program. The states also received minimal funds or other support
for strengthening their own management capacity. This resulted in the states effectively not "owning" the
RNTCP strategy and the project as part of it. Early on the Bank recognized this critical bottleneck and
pressed on the need to resolve it. The MOHFW was reluctant to give wider responsibilities to the states- a
view supported by WHO at that time-as it was felt that it would compromise the technical quality and
focus of the project. It took significant efforts and time to get the MOHFW and the WHO to agree to
effective decentralization, with the states mainstreamed in the decision making process. With the project
restructuring in 2002, the State TB Units role in program implementation, monitoring and fund flow were
clarified, with adequate delineation of authority and resources were also made available for their capacity
building.

Before the project, supervision and coordination of TB control services had been centralized at the district
level in the DTC, both for diagnosis and treatment (with services provided through the regular health
facilities of the state Departments of Health). Given the large size of districts in India, this was clearly an
overly centralized system that was detrimental to program effectiveness. An effective sub-district
infrastructure was established under the project. A special sub-district unit for supervision of the
program, staffed by two full-time supervisors for treatment and laboratory work, was established for an
average population of 500,000 (or 250,000 in tribal and hilly areas). Sub-district level supervision of the
work of peripheral health facilities (where the interface with the public takes place) by these staff has been
a key factor in the success of the RNTCP. Attention was also paid by project authorities to strengthen the
district level capacity by ensuring that a full-time DTO and key DTC staff were present in every district.


                                                       - 10 -

Another achievement supported by the project was the establishment of District TB Control Societies
(DTCS) and State TB Control Societies (STCS) in all districts and states. These Societies have been very
helpful in providing administrative support for the program, e.g. providing managerial flexibility especially
in financial management, facilitating the flow of funds from the GOI to the state, and ensuring continuous
funding from the CTD down to each state and district.

Following the restructuring of the project and in line with the decentralized approach and increased
involvement of States in the project, The State Tuberculosis Control Societies (or an existing Health
Society, having a separate bank account for TB project funds) were made responsible for implementation
of the State level activities and monitoring, review, control and reporting the District level activities. The
STCS and DTCS were strengthened with requisite staffing support, institution of a panel of chartered
accountants to conduct audit for state and district societies and computerized financial monitoring at both
the state and central level. The societies also assisted with the hiring of contractual staff. Under this
revised structure, instead of the funds flowing from the center to the districts, funds flowed from the CTD
to STCS and from STCS to District Tuberculosis Control Societies (DTCS) and financial reporting flowed
up from DTCS to STCS and from STCS to CTD. A budgeting and accounting system were established at
each level of implementing agency (Center/ State/ District) and adequate training of staff have been
provided to carry out basic accounting functions and periodic financial reporting at each level.

Management Information System

The RNTCP has developed an effective HMIS that is electronically connected to all districts/city units in
the country. Computers and peripherals have been provided to each district along with a contractual data
entry operator. All financial management and program performance data are sent to CTD via the internet.
Quarterly reports covering program progress by state and district, are generated through this system. The
reports are reviewed by the states and any bottlenecks to satisfactory progress are identified

Monitoring indicators for the program now cover all key activities at different levels, extending from the
center to the districts, and spanning progress in terms of human resources, diagnosis, availability of drugs,
DOTS treatment initiation, completion, cure and follow up, supervision, financial management and IEC.

The performance of the program is also monitored by periodic internal and external evaluations. All states
are responsible for conducting internal evaluations of two districts per quarter. The findings and the
recommendations of internal evaluations are followed up and the information disseminated by the CTD. In
addition to the internal evaluations conducted by the states, internal evaluation of certain districts facing
particular difficulties are also conducted by the CTD with the active participation of the states. External
evaluations also played an important role. Operational and technical evaluations are carried out every two
to three years by a group of national and international experts, resulting in recommendations for necessary
adjustments to the program. The last of these evaluations was conducted in 2003. Evaluation of the
impact of the program is carried out through special studies that estimate the evolution of the disease's
incidence. The most recent of these studies was conducted in 2003, and program authorities plan to repeat
this exercise every three to five years.

Operations Research

In 2002 the CTD identified some priority areas for operations research and sought proposals for funding.
Funds for operations research were also made available to the states for similar purposes. Three generic
protocols have been developed and a number of studies have been undertaken. Studies conducted under the


                                                      - 11 -

project included a National Sample Survey to estimate the Annual Risk of Tuberculosis Infection and
several similar surveys at the regional level; a study on utilization of RNTCP services by marginalized
groups and women; a study on utilization of RNTCP services by HIV/AIDS patients; an institutional
assessment study; and baseline and mid-term Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP) studies. The
results of the study on utilization of services by marginalized group and that by HIV/AIDS patients were
used to improve the programs coverage. Further details on the study findings were not available to the ICR
team.

Training

Training was a major activity supported by the project. This included the development of training
materials, the training of trainers, and the training of all categories of staff. More than 490,000 staff of
various categories were trained or re-trained during the project period as against the SAR target of 88,256.
Details of training outputs can be seen in Table 8 of Annex 8.

Component III: Developing Information, Education and Communication, and Promoting Outreach
Activities and Community Involvement: Performance of this component is rated satisfactory.
Achievements are described below.

Information, Education and Communication (IEC)

A number of initiatives were implemented in the IEC area, and significant progress was made under the
project. An IEC strategy was developed in 2001, clearly indicating roles and responsibilities at the national,
state and districts levels. Guidelines have also been developed to assist states and districts to develop IEC
action plans in accordance with local conditions relating to communication needs, target audiences, and
availability of appropriate channels of communication.

The IEC initiatives were largely based on print and electronic media. KAP studies were conducted before
and after launching the media campaign, and showed an increase in the percentage of respondents aware of
the existence and purpose of DOTS/TB centers, with a doubling in the proportion of respondents who felt
that DOTS is the surest way of achieving a complete cure. TV and radio spots were extensively used by
CTD, and were also made available to states and districts for conveying messages in regional languages.
Standardized messages, designs for posters, and materials for use in exhibitions, developed with the
assistance of DANIDA, have been posted on the program's website. Media workshops and photo
exhibitions were organized in many states.

The IEC strategy has helped to: (i) spread the message that TB is curable, with quality services readily
available for patients with more than three weeks of coughing; and (ii) reduce stigma. However,
strengthened interpersonal communication efforts are needed to further change beliefs and attitudes to the
disease and reinforce information on availability and frequency of treatment (a training module for
improving inter-personal communication skills has been developed and incorporated into the program's
training activities). There is also a need to decentralize IEC activities further, in order to ensure a good fit
with local conditions.

Promoting Outreach Activities and Community Involvement

About four years into project implementation, it became clear to program managers that further gains in
coverage could not be had without significantly expanding the outreach capabilities of the system. The
program responded by developing an outreach program through community volunteers who follow up


                                                      - 12 -

individual patients and, through direct observation, seek to ensure that they adhere to their treatment until
successful completion. The program developed the training for the volunteers and a close supportive
supervision system .These volunteers are teachers, postmen, NGOs, women members of self help groups,
unqualified private practitioners, nurses and private practitioners. Use of local community volunteers to
provide supervision of DOTS was tested in Medak district of Andhra Pradesh in the pilot phase. The
program has been effective in developing a wide network of such community volunteers. All districts
maintain a directory of this network. The system of community volunteers has been a great boon to the
program and examples of many dedicated community volunteers have come to light in recent years.
Outstanding volunteers, as well as outstanding government health facility field staff, are given recognition
on the World TB Day that takes place every year.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No NPV/economic rate of return was estimated for this ICR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project institutional development impact has been substantial, as demonstrated by the following;

Development of dedicated organizational structure and decentralized management: A clear and dedicated
organizational structure of the RNTCP (Management Cell) has been established for the implementation of
the project, at the centre, state, districts and sub-district levels with clear role definition between the tiers.
The CTD's (Central TB Division) role has now changed to one where it functions as a strategic planning
and policy formulation body, ensuring adequate inputs and monitoring the program outcome. Routine
analysis of program data is also undertaken by the CTD. These quarterly analysis includes district wise
RNTCP implementation status, total population coverage, case detection rate, new patients put on
treatment, sputum conversion and cure rates to identify low performing areas and those most in need of
assistance. The states are responsible for planning, management and monitoring of program
implementation, ensuring integration of the program into the general health system, training, and
partnership with the private sector and medical colleges. All feedback to districts is now provided by the
state, which have the freedom to transfer funds between budget heads within certain limits, the ceiling of
which is still set by the CTD. The districts are responsible for providing technical guidance and logistical
support to the periphery; and supervise field implementation. The sub-district TB Units act as links
between the district and the periphery and ensure quality control of the program through reviewing patient
registration, diagnosis, case management and reporting.

Clear operational and technical guidelines: The project has also developed clear operational and technical
guidelines for treatment as well as procurement, financial management and other technical aspects of the
project. Expansion to new districts requires the fulfillment of a series of well defined criteria, training and
procurement activities, and a thorough appraisal of the preparations by the STC and the CTD.

Establishment of District TB Control Societies (DTCS) and State TB Control Societies (STCS): These
Societies have been very helpful in providing administrative support for the program, e.g. taking on the
responsibility of the day to day implementation, providing managerial flexibility especially in financial
management, facilitating the flow of funds from the GOI to the state and ensure continuous funding from
the CTD down to each state and district.
.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): See Section 4.2



                                                        - 13 -

Partnership with WHO for institutional development both at center and states: The program has
benefited from the technical assistance of WHO consultants for monitoring program performance. This has
contributed to the rapid and successful expansion of the DOTS strategy and enhanced quality. WHO has
pledged the continuation of this support for another 5 years.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No adverse factors outside the control of the government affected the project's implementation and
outcome. A favorable factor which to some extent is outside the control of the government was the support
provided by the external partners, WHO, DANIDA and DFID. Starting with the 1992 Program Review,
WHO and DANIDA collaborated closely with the GOI and the Bank, and played a pivotal role in project
preparation. As an important source of technical assistance, WHO's beneficial impact continued
throughout project implementation. During the time the project was under suspension, DFID provided
grants for six months drug supply, ensuring that there no drug stock out and break in service delivery. No
adverse factors outside the control of the government affected the project's implementation and outcome.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several factors within the control of the government or implementing agency adversely affected project
implementation, though the difficulties associated with these factors markedly decreased after the
Mid-Term Review and subsequent project re-structuring:

Factors within the control of the government:

Role of the State: The initial project design and funds flow strategy gave the states a limited role in project
implementation, management and supervision. The reluctance of the MOHFW and WHO to provide wider
responsibilities to the states, proved to be a major constraint to ensure decentralized implementation and
extending the coverage. It took substantial efforts on the part of the Bank to get the MOHFW and the
WHO to agree to a decentralized strategy giving more authority and role to the states. This process took
two years and was subsequently addressed during the project restructuring. The CTD and the state TB
units were also understaffed, hampering program implementation. This too was addressed during project
restructuring.

Procurement Capacity: Even though identified as a risk, procurement delays had not been a constraint in
the pilots. During project preparation it was agreed that the MOHFW would carry out procurement for the
first year of the project, on the understanding that continuation of this arrangement would depend on
MOHFW's successful performance during the first year. The alternative, if this arrangement did not work,
would be for the MOHFW to hire the services of a professional procurement agency (UNICEF, WHO,
etc). In addition a buffer stock of drugs were also created through support from DFID and DANIDA to
mitigate any drug stock outs. However, the initial experience showed that with "in- house procurement"
there were serious problems with the procurement of drugs and microscopes, including long delays
between the opening of bids and award of the corresponding contracts. In addition, it constituted an
enormous burden by creating additional demands on the Central TB Unit staff. The Bank therefore
recommended in late 1997, that the MOHFW immediately outsource procurement to a professional
procurement agency. This would ensure efficient procurement, as well as free up the Central TB Unit to
concentrate on technical and managerial aspects of the project. The Credit funds could be used for this
purpose. The MOHFW agreed to get this done by January 31, 1998. As a follow up to this, the Bank



                                                      - 14 -

issued a letter dated February 25, 1998 to the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), advising that the
Bank would be obliged to suspend the Borrower's right to make further withdrawals from the Credit
effective from March 25, 1998, unless an independent procurement agent, acceptable to the Bank, was
appointed before this deadline. The Borrower failed to meet the deadline, and the Bank enforced
suspension effective from March 26, 1998. The Bank informed the Borrower that the suspension would
be lifted when the Bank was satisfied that: (i) implementation of the service delivery component was
proceeding satisfactorily and; (ii) the Borrower had appointed a procurement agent on competitive basis
acceptable to the Bank. The MOHFW had initiated the process for this soon after receipt of the Bank's fax
on suspension, and the short list had been cleared by the Bank by late 1998. However, both sides
recognized that the process was going to take a longer time than anticipated, affecting the availability of
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. It was therefore agreed that as an interim arrangement the
MOHFW would immediately appoint a procurement support agency, on a sole source basis, and the         5


Hospital Services Consultancy Corporation was contracted by the MOHFW on October 1998. The
MOHFW moved slowly on the appointment of the competitively selected procurement agent . On January6


28, 2000, the GOI signed a contract with RITES for this purpose. By this time service delivery had also
accelerated. On March 21, 2000 the Bank lifted the suspension of the Credit, after concluding that the
Borrower had satisfactorily met the conditions that had been set for the same. However, timely
procurement of drugs remained an issue even after this step was concluded. Therefore to address this the
Global Drug Facility (GDF) of the WHO was contracted to procure drugs in the later years of the project .


Drug supply for the TB program had not been affected by the suspension as the CTD had adequate supply
in the pipeline and DFID and DANIDA provided support to cover a years' drug supply. Following the
contracting of a procurement agent by the MOHFW, drugs have been continuously available in the field.
With additional procurement capacity created in the CTD, provided through the Global Drug Facility
(GDF) of the WHO (with financing from DFID), it is expected that these delays will be substantially
reduced in the follow-on project. As an additional safeguard against stock-outs, DFID is providing 43% of
the program's annual drug requirement.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(i) Strong and committed leadership within the implementing agency enabled the project to exceed
expectations in coverage and achievement of objectives. However, it was the strong and dominant
leadership of the implementing agency, which in the first half of the project's life, insisted on continuing
with a very centralized approach of center to districts and a funds flow following this approach, and
concentrating the project's coverage to 39 districts only. As explained earlier, this strategy proved to be a
constraint to effective program implementation and expansion and was subsequently addressed during the
restructuring.

(ii) Long delays in the purchase of jeeps, and inability to hire vehicles on the part of some DTOs, also
constrained implementation. At the sub-district level, mobility was a major problem. The failure to provide
two-wheelers severely limited supervisory capacity, although these vehicles were provided in some states.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the cost of the project was estimated to be US$176.4 million equivalent. The cost was to be
financed by an IDA Credit of SDR 98.4 million, or US$142.4 million equivalent (80.7% of total project
cost), and a GOI contribution of US$34 million equivalent (19.3% of total project cost).

The actual total cost of the project was about US$114.4 million, or only about 65% of the SAR estimate of
US$176.4 million. The total for actual Bank financing is US $100.2 million, which excludes US$ 14.9



                                                     - 15 -

million, the amount reallocated to the polio eradication program. Since the project's principal targets were
achieved and exceeded, it may be concluded that there was a substantial over-estimation in the original cost
estimates. One contributing factor appears to have been the provision for Physical Contingencies, which
was inordinately high (about 13% of the total baseline cost). There were also unexpected declines in the
prices of important cost items including drugs and microscopes, subsequent to appraisal.

An amount of SDR 9.176 million (9.3% of the original Credit amount), equivalent to about US$13.3
million, was cancelled upon the request of the GOI in January 2004. Also, as already noted, SDR 10.2
million of projected savings (about US$14.9 million equivalent) were reallocated in August 2004 to the
polio eradication program. The impact of the funding diverted to the polio eradication program will be
evaluated separately, as part of the ICR for the polio program.

As of January 19, 2006, the total amount disbursed in the project was SDR 82.657 million, or about 84%
of the original Credit amount of SDR 98.4 million. In US dollar terms, the total amount disbursed as of
January 19, 2006 was about US$115.139 million (historical disbursed amount) , which was equivalent to
                                                                                  7


about 81% of the original dollar equivalent Credit amount of US$142.4 million. It is expected that all funds
under the Credit would have been disbursed by project closure.    8




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely.

The RNTCP has demonstrated its value and enjoys strong backing from the GOI: the program forms an
integral part of India's 10th Five-Year Plan and India is an active member of the Global Stop TB
Movement. There is also a clear understanding of the threats posed by the interaction of HIV/AIDS with
TB control and the need for close coordination between the two programs. In the next several years with
the national coverage, the program's focus is expected to be on strengthening supervision at state and
Central levels including advocacy at the state level, in order to ensure a strong commitment of the state
governments, reducing non-initiation of treatment, and build on the current success of the PPM .

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was an integral part of the broader RNTCP, hence in this case transition to regular operations
is not an issue. It is expected that the Bank will continue to support the program up to at least 2011, as a
follow-on project, the Second National Tuberculosis Control Program, has already been negotiated.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project is rated satisfactory.


The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. The preparation of the project followed the 1992 Program Review conducted by the GOI with
support from WHO and SIDA. Project preparation drew numerous lessons from the implementation of 15
pilots in India. The preparation also benefited from the collaboration of the GOI with other organizations.
The central advisory role of WHO was complemented by technical advice from officials from the U.S.
Center for Disease Control, the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases, the U.S.
National Institutes of Health, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the New York City



                                                      - 16 -

TB Control program. DANIDA and the former ODA (currently DFID) also assisted the MOHFW during
project preparation.

All major risks including that of procurement delays had been identified during preparation and mitigating
measures as well as alternate arrangements agreed upon , as explained in Section 3.2 and Section 5.2. Two
social assessments of TB were carried out with support from a Japanese Policy and Human Resource
Development (PHRD) grant and funds from the Government of the Netherlands. The studies focused on
urban areas and in selected tribal areas of five states, where TB had become a serious problem. The
assessments provided a wealth of qualitative data regarding health providers and patients' attitudes and
behavior towards TB and other social factors that affected program success. The findings of the social
assessments were instrumental in the formulation of an effective strategy for the IEC component of the
project and for the development of the strategy to reach tribal populations.

Project preparation also included a series of meetings and workshops with major NGOs, thereby ensuring
their involvement in the NTCP. With support from the above-mentioned Japanese grant, the International
Medical Services for Health, an international NGO with extensive experience in building partnerships with
local NGOs and private health care practitioners, worked closely with the GOI and key NGOs in
developing a framework for NGO participation. Discussions and workshops were also held with
representatives from the Indian Medical Association in Delhi and in different states.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank-client relationship was very
cordial and productive. Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was
adequately supervised and closely monitored. Over the eight years of project implementation, there were
15 supervision missions, with an average of about two missions per year. This also included increased
reviews during the initial years of the project when it was clear that the delays in the procurement process
were going to result in serious impediments to start up of service delivery in the first year districts. Review
teams included specialists in public health, disease control, epidemiology, social development, HIV/AIDS,
financial management, disbursement, and procurement. Participation of GOI, WHO, DANIDA, DFID,
state, district, and city representatives in the supervision missions enhanced understanding and in most
cases allowed the expeditious resolution of implementation bottlenecks.

Aide-Memoirs were effective in alerting the MOFHW and CTD to problems with project execution. The
Project Status Reports (PSRs) realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of
achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever delays in implementation
occurred, the Bank's task team was able to define concrete steps and a timetable for putting the project
back on track. The Bank was also firm when the circumstances so required, as demonstrated during
suspension and restructuring of the project. Credit covenants were enforced effectively.

The Bank team worked diligently with MOHFW to resolve the procurement and implementation problems,
both prior to and after suspension. The Bank was seeking to bring about a systemic change by streamlining
the MOHFW procurement procedures and make them comply with Bank requirements. Since this involved
re-aligning long-standing procurement arrangements, the Bank chose to give GOI adequate time to
undertake this activity, rather than canceling the project, which would have resulted in the Bank's losing an
important opportunity to transform the TB program in India (the largest in the world). By not canceling the
project at that time the Bank management took a calculated risk and in retrospect this turned out to be a
good decision.

At the MTR in June 2000, the problems affecting project progress were accurately diagnosed and adequate



                                                       - 17 -

solutions were agreed upon. Based on these, the project was restructured in 2002. Given the Bank's
commitment to put in place a decentralized, sustainable program, it was necessary to give the government
adequate time to internalize and take ownership of the Bank's recommended policy change. This involved a
process of consultation with the CTD and state governments, culminating in the revision of the Central PIP
and development of state-specific PIPs for strengthening implementation of the TB program. The
restructuring of the project and revisions of the PIP also needed to be cleared by the GOI's Expenditure
Finance Committee (EFC)/Cabinet Committee, which was significantly delayed. The whole process also
took two years but the restructuring was seen as critical for the long term sustainability of the program and
it could only happen since the Bank insisted on holding out for that critical change to take place. As a
result, the program is now being cited by the GFATM and others as a global success story, and the Bank
can legitimately take credit for having been an important part of that achievement.

Adequate support was provided by Bank management to the task team in their recommendation to suspend
the project, and later to work with the Borrower in meeting the conditions for lifting the suspension.

With the decentralization of task leadership to the Resident Mission in Delhi, the Bank's response and
follow-up were accelerated. The Bank's team worked closely with the central and state governments, and
provided them with extensive assistance including technical advice.

The Bank conducted several workshops at the early stages of implementation on specific subjects, such as
procurement and disbursement; at the end of the project, a stakeholder's workshop was conducted to share
the experience of the project, and also to plan for a follow-on project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project is rated satisfactory.

Based on the experience with the DOTS pilots and a series of joint field visits with the Bank, the MOHFW
submitted a comprehensive project proposal on which most of the SAR was based. The proposal drew on
several preparatory studies, including two social assessments, a study on private physicians conducted by
WHO, and a series of workshops with state and district officials, NGOs and representatives of the IMA.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

The implementation went through two distinct phases, separated by the suspension of the project. While
government's performance before suspension was clearly unsatisfactory, improvement after the lifting of
suspension was remarkable. Weighting the performance before and after suspension, we rate the
government's implementation performance as moderately satisfactory. However, the current system of
rating performance in the Bank does not accommodate the moderate ratings and therefore the ICR team has
been constrained to give a Satisfactory rating in Section 2 (Principal Performance Ratings) and Annex 6.

Performance prior to suspension. The weak procurement capacity of the MOHFW, manifested by
procurement problems and delays in getting the supply of drugs and microscopes to the states, became a
key implementation issue and an area of concern. The MOHFW had to outsource this function to a



                                                     - 18 -

competitively selected procurement agency. The MOHFW moved very slowly in this regard and took a long
time to address the Bank's concern. Therefore on the grounds that the project was not being implemented
with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement,
the Bank suspended disbursements. This is explained earlier in Section 5.2. The performance in this period
is rated unsatisfactory.

Performance after lifting of suspension and re-structuring. After the suspension was lifted in March
2002, the government consistently maintained its commitment to the project throughout the rest of the
implementation period. MOHFW, which was responsible for the overall implementation of the project,
was very responsive in taking corrective implementation measures, and in dealing with outstanding
operational issues. Procurement capacity which remained an issue was also resolved with the contracting of
the Global Drug Facility for pharmaceutical procurement. The appropriate levels of review and approval
were usually in place; financial accountability was observed. Expenditures were duly authorized before
they were incurred; with documentation properly maintained for periodic review. The project did not suffer
from any counterpart funding problems, as GOI made adequate budget provisions. Regular participation
of MOHFW and state level officials in the Bank's supervision missions helped expeditious resolution of
many issues. The performance during this period is rated as satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of CTD, which coordinated implementation of the project, is also rated moderately
satisfactory. What was noted under Section 7.5 above concerning the two distinct phases of
implementation also applies to CTD, which was the central government unit most directly involved with
project implementation.

Prior to suspension and re-structuring
The CTD was overall responsible for the management of the project, which included: coordinating the
program with the districts, ensuring flow of funds to the districts, overseeing the implementation of
technical and operational policies, guidelines and procedures through frequent field visits and data analysis,
coordinating the procurement and distribution of drugs, vehicles and selected equipment. It also oversaw
implementation of training, IEC and outreach, monitoring and evaluation, the MIS system, and operations
research. With the exception of the procurement process, all the rest of the responsibilities were effectively
done. However as the lack of an acceptable process in procurement and progress led to suspension
therefore their performance during this period is rated as unsatisfactory.

Following the suspension and re- structuring, project implementation was done on the basis of a revised
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), procurement plan as well as detailed state PIPs. The State TB units
were given a crucial role in the implementation of the RNTCP. This included: planning and budgeting of
annual state plans for TB control; financial management; drugs logistics; operations research; IEC;
community involvement and program performance monitoring. The CTD's role was likewise changed to
focus clearly on capacity enhancement of state and, occasionally, district units; provision of technical
advice; monitoring of trends in tuberculosis; quality assurance of both sputum microscopy and drug
quality; critical operations research, and dissemination of lessons learnt. There was adherence to clear time
bound actions to strengthen CTD and the state/district/sub-district levels to taken on their revised roles.
The training capacity of some Central Institutions identified under the project were also strengthened to
take on the increased training load and strategies to seriously engage the NGO and private sector,
communities, special groups in the TB program were also implemented. The CTD and the State TB Units
were considerably strengthened with addition of extra resources including new staff. CTD staff were very
receptive to the Bank's advice, and responsive to meeting deadlines. They operated in close coordination
with the senior management of MOHFW and in consultation with WHO for project related activities. The



                                                     - 19 -

performance during this period is rated as satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On the basis of the ratings above, overall Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The project provides important insights into several aspects of design and implementation. These insights
are listed below.

State ownership and management capacity are critical for effective implementation of
centrally-sponsored programs. The TB program initially used a center-to-district model, whereby the
program was developed by the center, had highly centralized control, and was implemented at the districts.
States had inadequate involvement in planning, management and implementation, resulting in limited state
ownership. The restructuring addressed this issue, providing an enhanced role for the state level in
supervision and monitoring. After restructuring the states were also required to develop their State
Program Implementation Plans (SPIPs) including setting their own targets. Through these changes the
states had a larger role and were made accountable for the performance of the project in their districts.
These changes transformed the program and accelerated progress. However, state performance has not
been uniform- all states and all districts of well performing states do not have the same performance levels.
The challenge for the follow on project will be to ensure that states, districts or population groups with
special needs are well targeted in the follow on operation. This includes providing additional resources, or
agreeing on a different service delivery strategy in poorer states (Empowered Action Group (EAG) and
North East (NE)), poorer districts within states, areas with geographical difficulties.

Clear objectives and management guidelines lead to effective program implementation. The field
testing of program guidelines and a requirement that an appraisal be conducted in each district before the
start of service delivery in the district ensured that a minimum standard or "readiness filters" were
adequately met at program inception. The clear program norms, standards/guidelines and clarification of
the roles and responsibilities of each person in the implementation chain at all levels, removed any
ambiguity and ensured that everyone was aware of the program's strategy and their role in making it work
right. This significantly helped reduce variability in program performance. The remaining variability in
performance observed across states/districts resulted to a large extent from differences in the quality of
leadership at the state and district levels, factors which the center cannot control well. States which had a
good political commitment to ensure TB eradication and a strong leadership at the Department of Health
had well implemented programs. For example, Rajasthan and Orissa, otherwise low-capacity states, are
successfully implementing their TB programs, while implementation has been very slow in states such as
Bihar, UP and in some respects even in Tamil Nadu.

Thinking outside the box is critical when implementing a new program and strategy. The RNTCP took
a very flexible view on the issue of who could be a community DOTS provider. So long as the person was
a member of the community in good standing but not a member of the client's family, could read and write,
and was acceptable to the patient, s/he could be a community DOTS provider. This allowed the system to
respond to particular concerns, such as the privacy of unmarried girls, loss of wages of daily wage earners,
the alcoholic patient etc. This encouraged members within communities to step forward and allowed
engagement of a broad range of persons of diverse backgrounds. The choice of community volunteers was
left to local health providers and patients. This enabled informed choices to be made at the community
level, by the people most knowledgeable about the communities, and resulted for example in a significant
involvement of women in the program. As another important example of program creativity, the use of



                                                       - 20 -

Patient-Wise Boxes (an innovation first tried in India) for the packaging of TB drugs was vital in ensuring
that every patient had an assured supply of drugs to complete treatment. The use of these boxes also made
the management of the drugs, including the ordering and distribution easier. For the future, it would be
desirable that the program explore the use of mobile clinics, laboratories and sputum collection centers for
tribal, hilly and other difficult to reach areas. There is also a need to involve rehabilitation homes,
charities, shelters and other such NGOs to ensure treatment for destitute population groups.

The involvement of the private sector in government health programs can be a useful strategy to widen
the reach of the program. Involvement of private practitioners in the RNTCP was instrumental in
widening the reach of DOTS services and ensure that TB patients of these providers received quality
DOTS. The RNTCP has also had promising experiences with many NGOs and voluntary self-help groups
in tracking smear positive patients, providing treatment and following them up.

Well developed monitoring is essential for program success. Along with program expansion the CTD
has focused on ensuring the rolling out of a robust monitoring system at all levels--district, state and
national. The responsibility for M&E has been decentralized to the states and good performance is
rewarded. The quarterly progress reports for the whole program, in addition to documenting progress, have
also ensured that states assess their own performance in comparison to other states and identify poor
performing districts and the reasons. The focus is on solving problems as they are identified. Quality
assurance strategy is carried out internally and validated through various external assessments. The
program's WHO consultants are also mandated to do on-the-spot problem solving in the districts, and
validation of the district data.

Planning for program extension should also include plans to enhance staff capacity. The rapid
expansion of the program outstripped the capacity at local/state/central l levels. Failure to adequately staff
and strengthen the management capacity (especially planning and financial management) has proved to be a
bottleneck. The quality of existing staff is good but the issue is quantity and whether they have long term
employment. The program has tried to address this with contractual support staff, especially for
supervision, at the states, districts and sub-districts, and ensuring mobility of all staff, which has been a
core element for the success of the program. The technical support for implementation and monitoring
support provided through a large network of WHO-contracted local consultants has also proved very
valuable. WHO has committed the continuation of the consultants for another five years. However it is
critical that the follow-on program focuses on agreement on a long term solution for this (e.g. pilot the
contracting of supervision to the private sector or NGOs; or have the STS cost be met by the Block), as the
success of the expansion and consolidation of the program is dependant on this.

Development of transparency and good governance in procurement of pharmaceuticals. The MOHFW
has developed this Governance and Accountability Action Plan (GAAP) to address the critical operational
concerns in procurement of health sector goods and services noted during the implementation of the health
sector projects in India, particularly, the constraints experienced in procuring pharmaceuticals. The GAAP
covers all centrally sponsored health and family welfare programs included under the NRHM articulating
the specific roles and responsibilities of different stakeholders (public, private and civil society institutions)
in ensuring timely supply of quality commodities at a competitive price. An Empowered Procurement Wing
(EPW) has been established in MOHFW to support this process. This unit is developing appropriate
technical expertise in the areas of pharmaceuticals, bio-medical equipment, quality assurance and supply
logistics, and will provide oversight for all procurement activities.

Firmness on the part of the Bank when faced with serious implementation problems that are not being
addressed can result in sharp improvements in implementation performance. The project provides a


                                                       - 21 -

good example of the use of suspension in achieving a sharp turnaround in project implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from the Borrower are found in Annex 8, the "Borrower's Evaluation Report". Borrower's
comments are generally in line with the Bank's assessment of the project as given in this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The project had no co-financiers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments from interviews with WHO, DFID, DANIDA, GFATM and several NGOs have been
incorporated in the text.

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Sadia Afroze Chowdhury             Task Team Leader
Tara Bedi                          Junior Professional Associate
Sati Achath                        Consultant
Madhu Nair                         Consultant
Elfreda Vincent                    Program Assistant

Peer reviewers: Mariam Claeson and Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan.

Annex 10(b). Footnotes References

1. This component was referred to in the Staff Appraisal Report as the "Developing Institutional,
Operational and Research Capacity and Enhancing Technical, Managerial and Interpersonal Skills"
component. This ICR uses an abbreviated version of this rather awkward label.

2. See Annex 8, Borrower's Evaluation Report.

3. The project originally aimed to support the implementation of the RNTCP in 102 districts and
metropolitan cities, covering a population of 271 million in 15 states. When the project was
restructured in 2002, this goal was revised to 700 million people across a broader geographical area.


4. The "sputum positive case detection rate" is the percentage of cases found to be smear positive (i.e.,
infectious) in a given year relative to the total number of estimated cases in that year.

5. The terms procurement agents or procurement support agencies (PSAs) are used interchangeably in the
Health and Family Welfare Sector in India. They function as a consultant, assisting with   the procurement
process, i.e. preparation of the procurement plan, indents for pharmaceuticals and medical supplies
including technical specifications, publication of tender in UNDB and local                newspapers,
calling pre-bid meetings, and preparation of bid documents. The employer retains responsibility for all
procurement decisions.

6. There have been issues under the RCH 1 project related to the performance of the procurement agents in
respect of the procurement of pharmaceutical drugs and medical good and supplies.          However, the
information currently available does not permit an assessment of the importance of these issues for an


                                                     - 22 -

overall assessment of the implications for TB1 and for the lessons learned in this respect. The Bank and
the GoI are in an ongoing discussion of these issues.

7. The "historical disbursed amount" is the total amount of disbursements calculated using the exchange
rates SDR/US$ prevailing at the time of each individual disbursement.

8. This is not the final position regarding disbursements, since the Borrower can still submit withdrawals
applications up to the end of July, 2006, i.e., four months after the current closing date of March 31, 2006.




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


          Indicator             Baseline            End-of-Project Target      Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Cumulative number of        Not applicable       2.4 million [Revised from  4.03 million [From 1997
patients examined for                               1.9 million in SAR]        till third quarter of 2005;
diagnosis in project districts                                                 Table 7 of Borrower's
over the project period.                                                       Evaluation Report (Annex
                                                                               8); "Total Cases
                                                                               Registered from 1997 to
                                                                               2005-World Bank
                                                                               districts]
2. Cumulative number of        Not applicable      800,000 [SAR, para. 3.8,   1.783 million [From 1997 till
patients put on DOTS                               page 10]                   third quarter of 2005; Table
treatment in project districts                                                6 of Borrewer's Evaluation
over the project period                                                       Report (Annex 8); "New
                                                                              Smear Positive Case
                                                                              Registrations from Year
                                                                              1997 to 2005-World Bank
                                                                              districts]
3. Number of smear positive                        50%                        56% in 2005
cases diagnosed as a                               [SAR, para. 3.8, page 10]
proportion of all cases
examined in the project
(RNTC) districts in a given
year
4. Cure rate of new smear      35% nationwide in   85%                        84% in 2005
positive patients in RNTCP     the public sector
districts                      before the project
                               [SAR, page 29; WHO
                               estimate]
5. Annualized case detection   Not applicable      145/100,000                 138/100,000 in 2004*
rate per 100,000 in RVTCP
districts
6. Private practitioners        Negligible          50                         20
involved in RNTCP per 2
million population




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million  US$ million
I. Improve Quality, Access & Outcomes of TB Treatment       130.00         92.50          71.15
II. Capacity Building
a. Institutional and Operations Research Capacity Building    7.50           6.20         82.67
b. Enhancing Technical & Managerial Skills                    8.70           6.90         79.31
III. Develop IEC and Community Involvement                    5.90           8.82        149.49

Total Baseline Cost                                         152.10        114.42
 Physical Contingencies                                      19.70
 Price Contingencies                                          4.50
                         Total Project Costs                176.30        114.42
                   Total Financing Required                 176.30        114.42


PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS (In US$ million equivalent)




                                                 - 25 -

  Expenditure                   Procurement Method                                Procurement Method
  Categories                     Appraisal Estimate                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                    ICB      LCB       Other     Cons.       Total      ICB      NC      Other    Cons.        Total
                                                  Ser.                            B                 Ser.
1 Works                                 4.8                   4.8                        6.35                  6.35
                                       (3.8)                 (3.8)                      (6.35)
2 Goods
(a) Drugs           72.4     8.2        1.0                   81.6    42.15              0.36                 43.46
                   (65.2)    (7.3)     (0.9)                 (73.4)   (38.0)                                  (38.0)
(b) Lab.            10.9     1.3        0.6                   12.9
Equipment          (8.7)     (1.0)     (0.5)                 (10.3)
(c) Other                    2.0        3.0                   5.0      5.64              2.45                  8.09
Goods or                     (1.6)     (2.4)                 (4.0)    (5.00)            (2.45)                (7.45)
Equipment
(d) Vehicles                            3.1                   3.1                       3.55                   3.55
                                       (2.5)                 (2.5)                      (3.00)                (3.00)
(e) Lab                      2.4       21.7                   24.1                       6.18                  6.18
Supplies                     (1.5)     (13.6)                (15.1)                     (5.18)                (5.18)
3. Consultan-
cies &
Training

(a) Project                             2.0        4.1        6.1                       0.83                   0.83
Preparation &                          (1.7)      (3.8)      (5.5)                      (0.83)                (0.83)
Implementa-
tion Support
(b)                                     6.5                   6.5                        6.21                  6.21
Institutional                          (6.5)                 (6.5)                      (6.21)                (6.21)
Development,
Training &
Workshops)
4. Miscellane-
ous

Project                                 1.2                   1.2                        0.00                  0.00
Preparation                            (1.2)                 (1.2)
Facility
Salaries of                            17.4                   17.4                                31.60      31.60
Additional                             (11.3)                (11.3)                              (28.00)     (28.00)
Staff
Honorarium                              1.9                   1.9                        0.46                  0.46
                                       (1.3)                 (1.3)
Operational                             8.6                   8.6                       8.66                 8.66
Expenditures                           (5.5)                 (5.5)                      (5.70)               (5.70)
Equipment                               3.2                   3.2                        0.65                  0.65
Maintenance                            (2.1)                 (2.1)
Total               83.3     13.8      75.1        4.1       176.4    47.79             28.99     31.60      114.42
                   (73.9)   (11.5)     (53.2)     (3.8)     (142.4)  (43.00)            (23.83)  (28.00)     (100.2)
Notes: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants
under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements for
items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.




                                                        - 26 -

               Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivlent)



Component       Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of Appraisal
             Bank   Govt.     Co-Fin. Bank    Govt.     Co-Fin  Bank      Govt.    Co-Fin
Improving   122.4    30.3             81.0    11.5              66.2       38
Quality,
Access &
Outcomes of
TB
Treatment
Capacity     14.5    3.0              11.5     1.6              79.3      53.3
Building
Developing   5.5     0.6               7.7     1.1               140      183
IEC and
Promoting
Community
Involvement
Total       142.4    34.0             100.2   14.2              70.4      41.8




                                        - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                    Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              N/A
              N/A

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              N/A
              N/A

 Supervision

              05/07/1997                5    Task Manager (1);                        S               S
                                             Implementation Specialist (1);
                                             Medical officer (WHO) (2);
                                             Public Health Specialist (1)
              12/17/1997                6    Public Health Specialist (1);            U               S
                                             Team Leader (1);
                                             Implementation Specialist (1);
                                             Medical Officer (WHO) (2);
                                             Communication Specialist (1)
              10/01/1998                5    Team Leader (1); Public Health           U               S
                                             (1); WHO Expert (2);
                                             Procurement (1)
              05/14/1999                6    Pr. Health Specialist (1); Public        S               S
                                             Health Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1); Public Health Consultant (1);
                                             Public Health Specialist (1)
              09/11/2000                4    Lead Health Specialist (1); Sr.          S               S
                                             Health Specialist (1); Sr.
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1); Sr. Procurement
                                             Management Specialist (1)
              10/01/2002                5    IEC Specialist (1); Procurement          S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Disbursement
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Technical Specialist (1)
              03/12/2003                8    IEC (1); Team Leader (1); TB             S               S
                                             specialist (2); Private sector (2);
                                             Procurement (1); Financial
                                             specialist (1)
              10/31/2003                6    Financial management (1);                S               S
                                             Social development (1); ACS (1);
                                             Procurement specialist (2); IEC
                                             consultant (1)
              04/30/2004               12    Technical and TTL (1); Financial         HS              S



                                              - 29 -

                                                     Management (1); Procurement
                                                     specialist (1); Social dev.
                                                     specialist (1); Environment
                                                     specialist (1); Private sector
                                                     special (1); TB-HIV co-infection
                                                     (1); HIV specialist (1);
                                                     Operations officer (1); Program
                                                     assistant (1); IEC (1); TB
                                                     specialist (1)
               10/25/2004                        8   Team Leader (1); Sr.                    HS             S
                                                     Procurement Specialist (1);
                                                     Financial Management Specialist
                                                     (1); Sr. Social Dev. Specialist
                                                     (1); IEC Consultant (1); Sr.
                                                     HIV/AIDS Specialist (1);
                                                     Consultant (2)
               04/01/05                          9   Team Leader (1); Sr. Public             S              S
                                                     Health Specialist (1); Sr.
                                                     Procurement Specialist (1);
                                                     Financial Management Specialist
                                                     (1); Sr. HIV/AIDS Specialist (1);
                                                     Consultants (4)

 ICR
               11/01/2005                       2     Team Leader (1);                       S              S
                                                      Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                       694.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                   162.68                             762.7
  ICR                                             4.15                              40.0
  Total                                         166.83                            1497.4
*Staff week data prior to FY2001 is not available. Supervision staff week number above includes an estimated
77.5 staff week from FY97 to FY00.




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Report No. 15894-IN. Staff Appraisal Report: India Tuberculosis Project; Population and Human
Resources Operations Division, South Asia Country Department II, World Bank; January 6, 1997

Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. April 1997
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. December 1997
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. September, 1998
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. April, 1999
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. January, 2000
Aide Memoire, Mid-Term Review Mission, World Bank. September 2000
Aide Memoire, Review and Restructuring Mission, World Bank. May 2001
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. February 2002
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. September 2002
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. February 2003
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. November 2003
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. April 2004
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. September 2004
Aide Memoire, Review Mission, World Bank. April 2005

Surveillance, Planning, Financing, Global Tuberculosis Control. WHO Report 2005. World Health
Organization

Frontline TB Care Providers Working Towards Freedom from TB(2005). RNTC Status Report, Ministry
of Health and Family Welfare.

Project Implementation Plan: Tuberculosis Control Program, 2001-2004. June 12, 2001

Annual Risk of Tuberculous Infection in Different Zones of India (A national survey 2000-03)

Accessibility and utilisation of RNTCP services by SC/ST Population

Gender differentials in the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program (report - January 2004)

Baseline Study on accessibility and utilization of RNTCP services by PLWHA (final report)

Social assessment study for RNTCP (final report)

Data mnagement training course for RNTCP district & sub-district medical officers (Orissa 2005)

Report No. 32214-IN. Project Appraisal Document for India: The Second National Tuberculosis Control
Program, Human Development Unit, South Asia Region, World Bank; November 2, 2005

Borrower's Evaluation Report dated November 2005




                                                   - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation ReportContribution

The Revised National TB Control Programme
         Revised National TB Control programme, which is an application of the WHO recommended
DOTS strategy in India, came into effect in 1997 with support of a World Bank credit amounting 142
million US $. Total project cost was to have been Rs 749.28 crore ($ 176.4 million) of which the credit
was to finance Rs 604.9 crore ($ 142.4 million). The closing date was to have been 31 Dec 2002. Due to
various reasons there was underutilization of funds. However all physical targets were achieved and so the
project was granted a no-cost extension on two occasions: once in 2002 for two years and again in 2004 for
one year. The project has been extended for the Drug component only till March 2006 so as to enable the
project to complete payments for drugs procured during the project.

Objectives of the project (1997):
         The project would involve (a) gradual implementation of the Revised Strategy for TB control
(RNTP) in 102 districts for 271 million population, (b) strengthening of the National TB Program (NTP)
in 203 short course chemotherapy (SCC) districts as a transitional step to adopt the RNTP, and (c)
strengthening of conventional treatment in the remaining non-SCC districts.

         The Project goal was to reduce the preventable mortality and morbidity due to TB by preventing
the increase of infectious TB, the annual risk of TB infection and the development of drug resistance. It
was projected that the project would:
l diagnose and treat a minimum of 1.9 million TB cases including more than 800,000 smear-positive and
    severe TB cases.
l achieve cure rates of at least 85% of newly diagnosed smear positive cases in the RNTP districts.


         The RNTCP has a decentralized structure for TB care delivery and management of the
programme. At every 100,000 population (at every 50,000 population in tribal and hilly areas), there is a
Microscopy Centre which is a part of a Peripheral Health Institution (PHI) of the health care system of the
states. For every 4 to 5 Microscopy centres, there is a sub-district supervisory level referred to as a
Tuberculosis Unit (TU) which has been established at every 500,000 population (at every 250,000
population in tribal and hilly areas). A District TB Centre (DTC) exists at every district and is the nodal
centre for all TB control activities in the district. All DTCs come under the State TB Cell which is headed
by the State TB Officer (STO) and is manned by a complement of staff.

         In the early days, project implementation was delayed due to initial procurement difficulties,
preparation for service delivery with the new technical strategy, etc, and project progress took much more
time than envisaged. However expansion of the RNTCP in most of the districts taken up in the piloting and
subsequent early stages showed that it is technically as well as administratively feasible to implement the
DOTS Strategy in the country. Joint programme review by the WHO and GOI in 2000 showed good
results and the Government of India decided to take up more rapid and widespread expansion of the
RNTCP. Accordingly, during the 2002 restructuring of the project, it was decided not to have any areas of
SCC treatment and conventional treatment, but only DOTS for TB control throughout the country. The
areas which were not covered by the World Bank project was sought to be covered with funding from
DFID, DANIDA, USAID and GFATM.

Revised Objectives (2002):
The Objectives and scope of the extended and restructured project (2002) were to:
l Assist in the establishment of decentralized technical, managerial and organizational infrastructure at




                                                       - 34 -

     State and District levels in order to ensure long term sustainability of TB Control.
l Expansion of the RNTCP in the country to cover approximately 700 million people under World Bank
     assistance with more effective sequencing of implementation. This would include complete state-wide
     coverage in about 15 states and Union Territories.
l Preparing the Pre-RNTCP districts for RNTCP by establishment of infrastructure, improvement of
     microscopy, initiation of RNTCP pattern reporting and improved sequencing of transition to RNTCP.
l Improving quality to improve the reach of RNTCP


Achievements of the project as compared to pre-project era:
         Implementation of the Revised paradigm of TB control known as the DOTS strategy throughout
the country has been the most important achievement of this project. There has been an overall 55-fold
expansion in RNTCP coverage since 1998. 100% of World Bank funded areas have been covered (730
million population as per 2001 census). This includes full coverage of 27 states/ union territories. More
than 95% of the country's population now has access to DOTS. In terms of treatment of patients, RNTCP
is the largest and the fastest expanding programme in the world. Quality of services has been maintained
during this rapid expansion. In 1999, the Indian expansion of RNTCP accounted for 1/3 and in 2000 and
2001 for over 1/2 of the global increase in DOTS coverage. In 2004 alone, more than 1 million TB patients
were initiated on treatment under DOTS.

The table below indicates the number of districts in World Bank project areas with their population covered
annually from 1997 ­ 2005:

                                                           Table 1
            Year                    Districts covered       Population (in million) (2001
                                                            census)
           1997                     13                      33
           1998                     36                      75
           1999                     11                      24
           2000                     84                      168
           2001                     58                      106
           2002                     59                      57
           2003                     98                      154
           2004                     65                      88
           2005                     26                      25
           Total                    450                     730

         Infrastructure augmentation/ development for TB Control: In the pre-project era the TB control
services in the district were centralized at the district level in the District TB Centre (DTC), both for
diagnosis and treatment. There was inadequate system of follow-up or treatment holding of patients
initiated on treatment. Under the project, the state level was strengthened by setting up a State TB cell with
a complement of staff. The State TB Cell would be headed by STO.

         The project stipulated that DTOs and key staff of DTC should be posted in all districts. At the
sub-district level there was the establishment of the Tuberculosis Unit (TU), recruitment of supervisors at
sub-district level, establishment of laboratory and staffing at every 100,000 population. Services of TB
treatment have been made available at all health centres and diagnosis is available through laboratories
established at every 100,000 population (at every 50,000 population for tribal and hilly areas). To



                                                       - 35 -

strengthen management and supervision, the project procured 568 computers, 478 photocopiers, 218 fax
machines and about 2,182 two-wheelers at district level.

         Setting up of procedures and systems for case finding, treatment, case holding, monitoring and
supervision, recording and reporting. As against the World Bank project goal of providing treatment to 1.9
million total cases of which at least 800,000 are smear positive, the programme has initiated more than 4
million cases on treatment in World Bank areas of which more than 1.7 million are new smear positive
cases (Table-6, Table-7). Since its inception, the Programme has initiated over 5.1 million patients on
treatment, thus saving more than 9 lakh additional lives in the country. During the year 2004, sputum
positive case detection rate of 72% was achieved against the target of at least 70%.

         The programme has persistently achieved good cure rates in the last three years. Treatment
success rate of 86% was achieved in 2004 surpassing the global target of at least 85%. Compared with the
previous programme treatment success rates have tripled from 25% to 86%. Also, TB death rates have
been cut 7-fold from 29% to 4%.

         Joint Monitoring Mission of September 2003: The external evaluation by International experts in
the field of TB has applauded RNTCP as the fastest expanding DOTS programme in the history of DOTS.
They have stated RNTCP to be highly economical (costing < US $ 5 cents per capita) and the published
data to be a reflection of the situation in the field. Based on their recommendations, the priority areas of
shortcomings were identified by the project and steps have been taken to rectify those.

         By 2002, the CTD accepted PPM as a country wide strategy to further widen the reach of DOTS
services through various providers of health care. As part of this strategy, RNTCP districts all over the
country were encouraged to collaborate with appropriate partners. The CTD had also launched a large
scale intensified PPM activities in 14 cities of the country. The programme proactively solicits involvement
of NGOs and Private Practitioners (PPs) as per RNTCP guidelines through various schemes developed for
the adoption of NGOs and PPs. Till date, more than 1600 NGOs, 9700 PPs and 100 corporate health
facilities are involved in the provision of RNTCP services. More than 100 corporate sector units are
currently involved in RNTCP. The initiatives of the CTD supplemented by the states and district TB
control societies resulted in the formation of national, regional and state task forces of medical colleges.
Presently, more than 200 Medical Colleges are involved in RNTCP. In the first two quarters of 2005, at
14 PPM sites, Medical colleges contributed to 22% of referral of chest symptomatics, is 17% diagnosis of
smear positives, 17% detection of new smear positives under RNTCP at these sites. 5% of all cases at
these sites were held at Medical colleges for DOT. The initiatives to involve the government health facilities
outside Ministry of public health like the ESI, Railways, Central Government Health Scheme etc. were
supported by the directives given by the respective departments to their health facilities to adopt the `DOTS
Strategy'.

         Supervision and Monitoring: RNTCP has established a robust recording and reporting system
since the start of the programme in the country based on quarterly and annual cohort of TB patients
registered for treatment. To further strengthen the surveillance system, the monitoring indicators which
were in place have been further enlarged in 2004 to cover all the activities related to TB Control
Programme at different levels extending from the National to the DOTS Centre level covering political and
administrative commitments, human resource, diagnosis, drugs, DOTS & follow up, recording and
reporting, supervision, financial management and IEC. These indicators include all the important input,
process, outcome and impact indicators. Programme monitoring under RNTCP includes analysis and
feedback on routine surveillance data, supervisory visits and feedback, regular review meeting at all levels,
periodic in-depth evaluation consisting of internal and external evaluations.


                                                       - 36 -

          Establishment of District TB Control Societies (DTCS) and State TB Control Societies (STCS) in
all districts and states of India. These societies are nodal partnership agencies which implement the
programme. They also facilitate the flow of funds and regularize procurement systems. At present there are
450 DTCSs and 29 STCSs in World Bank project areas.

          Sound training materials have been developed for all categories of staff. The training materials are
modular in content to ensure standard quality training and to avoid possible subjectivity and bias of the
trainers. More than 490,000 staff of various categories have been trained in RNTCP. The details of staff
trained are given in table 8.

          The Review of the National Tuberculosis Control Programme (NTP) of 1992 had identified that
only one or no sputum smear was being taken before a TB diagnosis was being made under the NTP. This
was not in line with the primary aim of case finding, that is, identification of sputum smear positive
patients. This issue was adequately addressed in the RNTCP project. Under the project, sputum smear
diagnostic facilities in nearly 11000 laboratories have been established throughout the country. As a result,
the proportions of sputum positive cases confirmed in the laboratory are double to that of the previous
programme and are on par with international standards.

          Procurement: One of the most significant achievements of the project was to procure binocular
microscopes and drugs at Central level for health facilities throughout the country. Under the World Bank
project procurement was carried out at two levels, either at National level or at state/ district level. Anti TB
drugs for the entire country are being procured by the Central Government. The procurement of drugs at
the National level was mainly effected following International Competitive Bidding procedures
recommended by the World Bank. Anti TB drugs for treatment of pediatric cases under DOTS were
procured in two years (2003 & 2004) through National Shopping procedure. Inj. Streptomycin was
procured in the year 2003-04 procurement through National Shopping. The procurement of drugs and
microscopes is as reflected in Table: 9 and Table:10 . The programme helped in considerable infrastructure
strengthening in the states by undertaking civil works at approximately 450 District TB Centres, 8165
microscopy centres, 1647 TUs and 1669 drug stores (World Bank areas only). Districts were enabled to
purchase a computer, photocopier, fax machine etc at the rate of one per district. Consultants and
contractual staff procured under the project played a crucial role in programme implementation and
monitoring and supervision.

          IEC: The RNTCP IEC strategy was developed in 2001, clearly indicating roles and responsibilities
at the national, state and districts levels. The strategy helped to spread the message that TB is curable,
helped to reduce stigma and promoted message of the widespread availability of quality services for
patients with more than three weeks cough. It effectively ensured a change in beliefs and attitudes to the
disease. A training module for improved Inter-Personal Communication (IPC) skills has been developed
and incorporated in the existing modules. IEC strategy at different levels has been planned. Guidelines have
been developed to assist states and districts to develop IEC action plans in accordance with the
communication needs, identify target audience, and in use of local appropriate channels. Media agency at
the national level was hired in Jan 2003 and has been in position till project closing. Web-based resource
centre for IEC materials has been made available on the programme website.

          Baseline KAP study was done before launching the media campaign. Mid term study was done to
see the trends. The study indicates that there is an increased awareness regarding curability of the disease
and awareness amongst public regarding availability of TB treatment in the vicinity has increased. There is
also increased awareness about sputum examination for diagnosis of TB amongst public and medical


                                                       - 37 -

practitioners. End term KAP study to measure the impact of IEC has been completed. Endline survey found
there was a general increase in awareness among the community with regard to signs and symptoms of TB,
method of diagnosis, availability of free TB care in public health care facilities, treatment of TB based on
DOTS strategy etc. There is also overall improvement in the perception of health care providers with
regard to DOTS.

         IEC initiatives have been also based on the studies done over a period of time. Three studies were
conducted on accessibility and utilization of RNTCP by the marginalized section (SC/ ST; women and
PLWHA). These studies have identified issues for making DOTS services accessible to marginalized
sections and these have been addressed in the second phase project. These studies have highlighted that
SC/ST access public health services including DOTS services, there is initial delay in accessing TB
services by women but as patients they comply to the treatment and complete treatment; whereas for
PLWHA, issues of confidentiality and address verification has been of concern for both the disease control
programmes, i.e. RNTCP and NACP.

         To ensure management and accountability of the Operational Research portfolio at the different
levels, roles and responsibilities have been assigned. Two committees ­ RNTCP Screening and Monitoring
Committee (SMC) and the Central Steering Committee (CSC) under the chairmanship of Director General
of Health Services have been formed for this purpose. OR proposals received at the Central level (budget
over 5 lakhs) are screened during the 6 monthly meetings of the SMC and the SMC recommends some
proposals to be forwarded onto the CSC for final approval.

         Some of the major Operational Research projects undertaken during the phase I of RNTCP
include:
   l National Sample Survey to estimate the Annual Risk of Tuberculous Infection from 2000-2003.
         Besides several state specific ARTI surveys planned and being undertaken in Orissa, AP, Kerala,
         HP and Rajasthan
   l Drug Resistance surveillance has been conducted at district level under RNTCP in: Hoogly of
         West Bengal, Mayurbhanj of Orissa, Nagaon of Assam, Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh, Wardha in
         Maharashtra, North Arcot in Tamil Nadu and Raichur in Andhra Pradesh. Presently, DRS surveys
         are ongoing in Ernakulam district of Kerala, and in the states of Gujarat and Maharashtra
         (state-wide survey).
   l Study on utilization and accessibility of RNTCP by marginalized groups and women, 2003.
   l Study on Accessibility and utilization of RNTCP by PLWHA, undertaken by ORG in 2003.
   l Social Assessment study to study the impact of RNTCP, April 2005.
   l Institutional Assessment of RNTCP undertaken by IIHMR, Jaipur, March 2005.
   l Environmental Assessment study undertaken to study waste management practices in RNTCP,
         March 2005. Institutional Assessment study undertaken by Indian Institute of Health Management
         Research (April 2005).
   l Baseline KAP study (2003) and mid-term KAP study (2005) to study the awareness of TB and
         RNTCP in the general population.

         Besides several studies were undertaken by the national institutes on basic TB research, on
operational aspects of RNTCP which have immensely contributed in developing technical and operational
guidelines under RNTCP.

         TB-HIV co-ordination activities: The epidemiology of TB is closely related to the spread of HIV in
the community. The programme is implementing TB/HIV co-ordination activities since 2001. A joint action
plan has been formulated in co-ordination with National AIDS Control Programme. Training modules have


                                                    - 38 -

been prepared for various category of staff. Phase I of the co-ordination activities was initiated to cover the
six HIV High Prevalent states namely Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Nagaland &
Manipur. In 2003 the Phase II of the co-ordination was extended to eight additional states. A cross referral
mechanism between VCTC and RNTCP diagnostic centres is being implemented in 14 states to ensure
optimal access to TB diagnostic and treatment services to the HIV positives. The co-ordination is being
reviewed regularly at national, state and district levels by co-ordination committees which have the
participation of key policy makers.

         External Quality Assurance. To ensure quality, external quality assurance of sputum microscopy
is being introduced throughout the country. The protocol being implemented has taken into consideration
the recommendations of the recently published international guidelines and has all components for ensuring
quality ­ on site evaluation, panel testing and blinded crosschecking. The three National Reference Labs
have been assigned states and they have started On-site evaluation visits to the Intermediate Reference Labs
(IRLs) which are the state level labs. NTI, Bangalore has so far visited 10 states and TRC, Chennai has
visited 2 states. Training of trainers of all states has been completed. Six states are implementing and
reporting as per the protocol. The remaining states are yet to implement the EQA protocol in the coming
months and implementation throughout the country is expected to be completed by the end of 2006.

         Drug Resistance Surveillance. Data from recent studies conducted by TRC Chennai and NTI,
Bangalore, have found that multi-drug resistance levels in TB in India is between 0.5% to 3% in new cases
and 12% in re-treatment cases. A national protocol for conducting DRS at state level has been developed.
State level laboratories are being strengthened so that they can undertake drug resistance surveillance in the
entire state. The surveillance will help to monitor the impact of the programme by observing the trends in
resistance. Additionally, these laboratories will provide diagnostic services once DOTS plus is introduced
in 2006 for treatment of Multi-drug resistant TB patients. The ground work for a multi-centric community
based drug resistance surveillance in eight states has been done during the first project and two labs have
been established in the states of Gujarat and Maharashtra.

         The results of DRS conducted at district level by TRC Chennai and NTI Bangalore is summarized
    below:

                                                        Table 2.

                  District (Zone)          Intake          Number of        Primary multi-drug
                                           period           patients            resistance %

               North Arcot (South)          1999              282                    2.8

                  Raichur (South)        1999-2000            278                    2.5

                  Wardha (West)          2000-2001            197                    0.5

                  Jabalpur (West)        2001-2002            273                    1.0

                   Hoogly (East)         2000-2001            350                    3.0

                 Mayurbanj (East)        2000-2002            343                    0.7


         ARTI: A nation wide tuberculin survey to estimate the Annual Risk of Tuberculous Infection



                                                       - 39 -

(ARTI) in different parts of India was conducted by NTI, Bangalore from January 2000 to 2002, with
support from other institutions especially TRC, Chennai. Besides zonal differences, the ARTI was found to
be higher in urban areas than in rural areas. This difference reflects the heterogeneity in such a vast
country and population. A national ARTI of 1.5% has been derived from the zonal estimates. This study
has provided robust data on the epidemiology of TB in India and will serve as a baseline data to assess the
impact of RNTCP in the future. The ARTI seems to have come down from the earlier ARTI of 1.7 which
is an early indicator of the efficacy of the DOTS strategy of RNTCP.

Sustainability:
         The issue of sustainability of TB control activities has been recognized at political, administrative
and implementation level. Keeping the long term nature of TB Control in view, GoI has recognized the need
to effectively build up the capacity of state level and district level. The LoU for the previous project which
was signed between the GoI and the state governments stipulated that a full time STO should be posted for
the programme from the state health services, at least in the rank of Joint Director. The states undertook to
post DTOs in all the districts and keep them in office for a minimum period of three years. Infrastructure
upgraded during this project is expected to make TB control systems more sustainable in the states. The
programme is implemented mostly through the state systems with minimal contractual staff support. Other
systems of infrastructure are those that belong to the states. As programme is being implemented by the
states through its PHC infrastructure with minimal contractual staff support of programme & financial
support in addition to total drug requirement being provided from the centre to carry out the supportive
activities of the programme, the Central support will continue as long as TB is a major public health
problem in the country. GoI will ensure that states take up the responsibility of implementing TB control
services once TB is no longer a serious public health problem in the country as then the disease burden will
be smaller and can be managed by the states.

Lessons Learnt:
         The experience of RNTCP to date shows that a successful DOTS programme can be implemented
in a low income high burden setting like India. However this has been achieved as a result of the
programme being appropriately designed, rigorously monitored during preparation and effectively managed
after implementation. Some of the important factors which have enabled this success, include:

l Formation of TB Control Societies in the States and Districts have helped in direct release of funds,
    thereby ensuring fund provision for TB control activities and flexibility in fund utilization at the levels
    where the actual services are provided.
l Gradual, phased implementation. The initial phase of the project was spent on development of the
    necessary tools and materials for sound preparation and implementation of the programme. Before
    embarking on large-scale expansion in late 1998, the technical policies and detailed training material
    for every level of staff, were developed and after field testing, finalized.
l Strengthening the existing infrastructure and staffing levels prior to service delivery. Ensuring
    full-time State and District TB officer are in post, provision of contractual support staff at the State
    and Districts, and ensuring mobility of staff by provision of vehicles and POL to enable staff to carry
    out their assigned roles. Establishment of a District TB Centre (DTC) where non-existent, State Drugs
    Stores, up-gradation and / or renovation of the laboratory and drug stores in the districts, supply of
    binocular microscopes to each RNTCP Designated Microscopy Centre and office equipments for the
    DTC, strengthened the infrastructure to implement the programme. A special sub-district unit for
    supervision, the TB Unit (TU), manned by a full-time RNTCP Senior TB Treatment Supervisor (STS)
    and a full-time RNTCP Senior TB Laboratory Supervisor (STLS), was established for average
    population of 500,000 (for a population of 250,000 in tribal and hilly areas). Sub-district level
    supervision by the STS and STLS has been a key factor in the success of the RNTCP.


                                                      - 40 -

l Modular training for all levels of staff. Modular training ensured a uniform standard of training
    throughout the country and removed the subjectivity of the trainer(s). A detailed training plan
    specifying the trainers, level, course and duration of training for different categories of staff, has
    ensured the quality of training.
l Systematic appraisal of each district before start of service delivery. The appraisal process ensured
    that each district meets a minimum standard before starting RNTCP service delivery. Appraisal
    ensures the quality of preparatory activities and therefore of subsequent programme implementation.
l Use of patient-wise box (PWB). The use of the patient-wise box for the packaging of anti-TB drugs
    has ensured that no patient can ever run out of drugs in the middle of treatment. The use of the PWB
    has also made the management of the drugs, including the ordering and distribution easier.
l Uninterrupted supply of drugs. Continuous monitoring of the availability of sufficient drug stocks,
    expiry status of drugs and projection of drug requirements and/or overstock, ensured an uninterrupted
    drug supply, without compromising on the wastage of drugs through expiry. Intensive monitoring of
    drug stock at the various levels has been made possible through the Monthly and Quarterly Programme
    Management Reports.
l Intensive monitoring and supervision of all aspects of the programme at every level has been essential
    to the success of the programme. The provision of computers, with internet connectivity, and a Data
    Entry Operator trained to use the public domain EpiInfo software, has facilitated in the timely
    submission and receipt of the programme quarterly reports electronically. These reports are analyzed at
    all levels, and feedback given to the reporting units on their performance and links to the release of
    funds and drugs. The programme has been able to publish and distribute widely a quarterly and annual
    performance report, summarizing the comparative performances of each state and district, and the
    timely receipt of the quarterly reports has greatly facilitated this activity.
l Ensuring full-time technical support and supervision. In addition to the routine supervision by the
    Central and State levels, technical support through a network of WHO-contracted local consultants
    throughout the country, has facilitated both preparatory activities and once services are implemented,
    in ensuring the quality of the RNTCP services provided.
l Delivery of RNTCP services through a mix of public-private providers is feasible, and has resulted in
    an increased case detection. However for PPM activities to be successful, a strong public health sector
    presence, with adequate supervisory capacity, is required. The successful PPM sites have had the
    crucial presence of a strong public sector, which could convince the other sectors to join RNTCP. The
    higher proportion of cases detected from medical colleges and larger hospitals in the cities underlined
    the need for involving these larger facilities rather than smaller providers.
l Continued central level drug procurement is crucial. An attempt to decentralize the procurement of
    loose drugs was made during Phase I of the project. However almost all states were unable to procure
    the said drugs. In addition, in the process of decentralized procurement, the cost reduction gained by
    the economy of scale in central level procurement, was lost. As a result of this experience, it was
    decided to return to centralized procurement of RNTCP loose drugs. In addition since stringent quality
    of drugs is an essential component of the DOTS strategy, centralized procurement of all RNTCP drugs
    was continued. Internal and external quality assurance systems for the drugs supplied, following both
    GoI and RNTCP policies and guidelines, are crucial.

Impact of the programme:
The World Bank in their supervision mission of April 2005 rated the implementation progress of the project
as highly satisfactory and Achievement of Project Development Objectives as highly satisfactory. The
foremost objective of the project was to shift the focus of TB control in the country to the new
internationally accepted paradigm for management of TB, namely DOTS. As on 31 Oct 2005, there is
100% DOTS coverage in World Bank project areas and in the entire country, about 1060 million
population (projected population of 2005) has been covered under the DOTS strategy. As far as impact on


                                                      - 41 -

Incidence of the disease in the country is concerned, the ARTI has reduced from previous estimate of 1.7%
to 1.5% as measured in 2003 (Thus incidence of NSP at 85 / lakh/ annum population has been reduced to
75/ lakh/ annum). A repeat survey at 3-5 years intervals is planned to document impact on incidence.
Mortality has also reduced considerably compared to the earlier NTP. Death rates have been reduced 7-fold
in DOTS areas versus non-DOTS areas. It is estimated that over 865,000 additional lives have been saved
by RNTCP so far. The latest Global Report on TB published by the WHO documented that in India deaths
occurring in TB patients annually amounted to <400,000 a year, which has also reduced from the
pre-project estimates of 500,000 TB deaths a year in the country. Additional benefits of the programme
include societal and economic benefits attributed to early cure and averted deaths.

Performance Evaluation of the Borrower
The assistance provided by the World Bank contributed substantially in starting the implementation of the
DOTS strategy for TB Control in India. The benchmarking of performance and supervisory missions
conducted by the Bank were very useful for programme evaluation and review of progress. Use of World
Bank procurement procedures helped in ensuring fair prices and quality of procured items. However the
two-stage bidding system contributed significant delays and the borrower has now sought to make it a
one-stage bidding system for drug procurement. Excellent relationship existed between the Bank staff and
the Central TB Division and this relationship continues to grow.

Financial Performance
The project had an initial outlay of Rs 749.28 crores (USD 176.4 million) for the period May 1997 to Dec
2002. The credit was to finance Rs 604 crores. There were delays in the project due to enhanced
preparation time for service delivery and difficulties in procurement. Due to savings in the project the
project was extended for a period of two years with mid course corrections in 2001. Due to fall in prices of
goods like drugs and microscopes there were further savings and the project was further extended till
September 2005.The project has been granted a part extension for purchase of drugs due to difficulties
faced in the procurement process upto 31 Mar 2006. An expected expenditure of Rs 67.80 crores will be
done during the period of extension.

The project has decentralized the financial management to the states and funds flow from CTD to STCS
and from STCS to the DTCS. There is adequate capacity for financial management and maintenance of
accounts at State level.The States have also been given requisite authority to mange the finances within the
STCS and DTCSs The flow of reporting is from the DTCS to STCS and from STCS to CTD. Annual
financial statements and audit reports also originate from the district level to the STCS and are
consolidated at STCS and then forwarded to CTD. The project had developed the financial guidelines for
both the State and the District and the financial staff at CTD has provided extensive training to the DTOs
and accountants at State and District level on maintenance of financial records and preparation and
reporting of financial statements. Modules of the internet and intranet based financial management system
are being piloted in some states and districts before full scale implementation.




                                                     - 42 -

The project as on 31 October 2005 has made an expenditure of 537.08 crores. The reimbursable
expenditure is Rs 458.34 Crores of an expected Rs 604.3 Crores. The category wise expenditures are given
below:

                                                      Table 3

                                                                                             Amount Rs crores
  Category                                   Allocated         Total          Claimed from      Percentage
                                              Amount       Expenditure             WB           Expenditure
                                                             including                          of Total
                                                                GOI
  Civil Works                                  20.46           28.62              22.30               4.9%
  Drugs, Equipment, Goods etc                 256.10          200.68              188.99             41.2%
  Publicity & Social Marketing                 30.24           38.36              28.54               6.2%
  Consultancy and Training                    146.29          157.76              158.99             34.7%
  Incremental Operating Costs                  54.69          111.66              59.52              13.0%
  Total                                       507.78          537.08              458.34            100.0%




The year wise expenditures claimed and reimbursed are given in the table below:

                                                      Table 4
                                                                                           Amount Rs crores
                Expenditure, Amount reimbursable and reimbursed as on 04-01-06
                                            Expenditure         Reimbursable              Reimbursed
                                          Amount up to              portion                 Amount
                                             Oct 2005                                 (up to Appln 177)

      For the period 1997/98 to                     13.25                   11.63                     11.65
      1999-00
      For the year 2000-01                          95.82                   84.71                     84.70
      For the year 2001-02                          59.41                   52.48                     52.47
      For the year 2002 to 2003                     87.42                   78.08                     78.08
      For the year Apr 2003 to                      85.67                   74.21                     74.21
      Mar 2004
      For the year Apr 2004 to                      94.90                   76.96                     76.96
      Mar 2005
      For the year Apr 2005 to                     100.62                   80.49                     77.59
      Mar 2006
      Total                                        537.09                  458.57                   455.66
 The difference in total figures are due to exchange rate variation. Figures in Table I are converted to rupees
 from XDR



The disbursement projection for the closing period and the period of part extension for purchase of drugs is
given below:




                                                        - 43 -

                                                  Table 5
Projection of Disbursement for WB Credit No. 2936-IN (Status as of February 28, 2006



                                                        Rupees Crores         XDR million


                                                     Amount    Running              Running
                                                                Balance    Amount   Balance
              World Bank Credit
              approved IN-2936 May                   604.00                98.40
              1997
              Net exchange rate gain          (+)     30.22     634.22      9.18      89.22

              First Cancellation               (-)    59.14     575.07      0.00      89.22
              Second cancellation (SDR
              10.31 million)                   (-)    66.44     508.63     10.31      78.92

              Credit Available                       508.63                78.92
              Total reimbursed
              expenditure till Jan '05 ( till  (-)   461.51      47.12     71.60       7.31
              Appln 182)
              Applications in Pipeline at
              WB/CAAA                          (-)    0.00       47.12      0.00       7.31

              Expenditures of Drugs up to
              Sep '05 to be reimbursed         (-)    7.23       39.89      1.12       6.19

              Expected expenditures Oct
              '05- Mar '06 on Drugs
              (contracts awarded by            (-)    56.85      -16.96     8.82      -2.63

              GoI/WHO)




                                                   - 44 -

      Table.6.: NEW SMEAR POSITIVE CASE REGISTRATIONS FROM YEAR 1997 to 2005 (World Bank districts)
                                                                                     Year
                        Year  Year   Year   Year   Year    Year    Year    Year      2005(till
STATE                   1997  1998   1999   2000   2001    2002    2003    2004      3Qtr)       Total
ANDHRA_PRADESH           1499   1386  2147   2023                                                   7,055
ANDAMAN & NICOBAR                                                                          39          39
ARUNACHAL PRADESH                                             232     779     709        641        2,361
ASSAM                            17    276    649    1629     778    3863    10111      9160       26,483
BIHAR                     199   222    675   1567    8822    4462    4201     4816      2358       27,322
CHANDIGARH                                                    453     702     722        586        2,463
CHATTISGARH                                                  1222     885                           2,107
DADRA & NAGAR HAVELI                                                                       34          34
DAMAN & DIU                                                                                29          29
DELHI                    2007   2361  7936   7979   26380   10738   11325    11926     10169       90,821
GOA                                                                           182        454          636
GUJARAT                   412   978   5939  14082   50551   22974   26471    30614     23209       175,230
HARYANA                                      1589    6655    2770    2029                          13,043
HIMACHAL_PRADESH          173   401   1700   2319    9762    4555    4902     4954      3849       32,615
JAMMU & KASHMIR                                                               379       1104        1,483
JHARKHAND                                            4443    2460     717                           7,620
KARNATAKA                 207   265    833   2661   20959   11346   21625    25734     20552       104,182
KERALA                    313   1224  4070   6699   22590   10039   10861    11073      8459       75,328
MADHYA_PRADESH             68   113   1985   1988    6472    3084   12687    23661     21794       71,852
MAHARASHTRA               881   1280  7052   8677   56885   31915   46257    54875     41797       249,619
MANIPUR                          76    379    614    1767    1615    1451     1326       815        8,043
MEGHALAYA                                                             257     1256       942        2,455
MIZORAM                                                               517     591        445        1,553
NAGALAND                                                       45     657     798        759        2,259
PONDICHERRY                                                                   569        429          998
PUNJAB                                                637     662    5831     7370      9276       23,776
RAJASTHAN                 406   560   3782  16984   84557   36470   37459    39655     30662       250,535
SIKKIM                                                        445     443     550        425        1,863
TAMIL_NADU                147   105   2613   5644   46546   31135   34768    39438     29120       189,516
TRIPURA                                                                        56        531          587
UTTAR_PRADESH             369   572   3015   6093   28057   12802   31937    53044     46391       182,280
UTTARANCHAL                                                    22     167                             189
WEST_BENGAL               967   1121  7033  10529   58141   29535   38866    44482     37746       228,420
Total                   7,648 10,681 49,435 90,097 434,853 219,759 299,657 368,891   301,775     1,782,796




                                            - 45 -

                 Table.7: TOTAL CASES REGISTERED FROM 1997 to 2005 (World Bank districts)
                                                                                         Year
                                                                                         2005
                  Year     Year   Year    Year    Year    Year    Year      Year         (till
State             1997     1998   1999    2000    2001    2002    2003      2004         3Qtr)    Total
Andhra Pradesh      3953    4518    6120    4790                                                    19,381
Andaman &
Nicobar                                                                                       113      113
Arunachal Pradesh                                            417     1978       2057         1803    6,255
Assam                         49     794    1440    1626    1749     9019      26422       22822    63,921
Bihar                 457    571    2080    4698    8822   10514    10820      14593         7761   60,316
Chandigarh                                                  1244     1918       2164         1976    7,302
Chhatisgarh                                                 3218     2465                            5,683
Dadra & Nagar
Haveli                                                                                         46       46
Daman & Diu                                                                                    67       67
Delhi               5588    7217   21264   23907   26380   32604    38814      43809       36420   236,003
Goa                                                                               509        1253    1,762
Gujarat             1316    2469   13774   34849   50551   57274    69877      79784       59209   369,103
Haryana                                     4161    6655    7504     5335                           23,655
Himachal Pradesh      582   1030    4336    6098    9763   12448    13311      13458       10986    72,012
Jammu & Kashmir                                                                   988        2771    3,759
Jharkhand                                           4443    5470     1716                           11,629
Karnataka             567    625    2442    6035   20000   26769    50797      64432       52331   223,998
Kerala                499   2854    9247   15652   22595   23923    24878      25439       18709   143,796
Madhya Pradesh        195    266    3799    5216    6472    9041    32269      63292       55659   176,209
Maharashtra         2509    3686   22020   26575   56337   90156   127725     143766     109345    582,119
Manipur                      278    1103    1759    1767    5478     5095       5042         3563   24,085
Meghalaya                                                             778       3800         3041    7,619
Mizoram                                                              1564       2035         1532    5,131
Nagaland                                                      84     1512       2239         2358    6,193
Orissa                101   3937    8151    9632   12635   17633    24187      43238               119,514
Pondicherry                                                                     1203         1053    2,256
Punjab                                               637    1537    15624      20148       23642    61,588
Rajasthan             981   1694    9725   39919   84557   93462    98147     105596       82445   516,526
Sikkim                                                       993     1403       1724         1304    5,424
Tamil Nadu            241    188    6919   14985   46676   80895    89617      96639       72083   408,243
Tripura                                                                           122        1057    1,179
Uttar Pradesh         551   1445    7043   14756   28083   30356    75860     135691     115488    409,273
Uttaranchal                                                   44      384                              428
West Bengal         2183    2679   18778   29009   58141   70844    89826     103204       83399   458,063
Total             19,723   33,506 137,595 243,481 446,140 583,657 794,919   1,001,394    772236   4,032,651




                                            - 46 -

                                               Table.8.:
                          Total Staff (various categories) trained in RNTCP World Bank districts

                     Trained                                                                      Trained
                        in      Trained in     Trained in     Trained in  Trained in Trained in      in
                     RNTCP      RNTCP in       RNTCP in       RNTCP in    RNTCP in   RNTCP in     RNTCP
 Category of staff   in 2005       2004           2003           2002       2001         2000     in 1999  TOTAL
Second Medical
Officer of the DTC
                           45           145        135                154        99            98      44    675
Designated Medical
Officer (MO-TC) of
the TB Unit               246           550        504                407       355           269      65    2150
Medical Officer (at
BPHC / PHC /
CHC/other)               4202          8700      11105              8349       8211         7546      1779  45690
Senior Treatment
Supervisor (STS)
                          266           562        509                427       395           303     140    2336
Senior Tuberculosis
Laboratory
Supervisor (STLS)
                          213           540        507                408       413           313     120    2301
Laboratory
Technician/
Microscopist of
designated
microscopy centres        801          4168       2821              2148       2221         2170      482   14010
Treatment Organizer        48           150       3873                284        61           139     100    4607
Pharmacist               1541          2759       1784              4134       2432         1949      664   13722
Lady Health Visitor                    1350       3395              1550       1273         1872      344    9784
Staff Nurse                            2219      11397              3219       3501         2290      1816  24442
Health Assistant                       1839       6224              5360       3697         3062      529   20711
Multipurpose Health
Supervisor (MPHS)
                          970          3029      23885              3158       5741         4558      2483  42854
Multipurpose Health
Worker or
equivalent              13222         19040        333             20980      25217        22164      5662  93396
TB Health Visitor         190           478      28494                338       147           195     105   29757
Anganwadi Worker                      78906        449             13882      20987        23809      6787 144820
Community
Volunteer                             24522       9024              5126       3397         2404       32   44505

TOTAL                 21744         148957         104439          69924      78147        73141    21152  495760




                                                  - 47 -

                                                      Table 9


                                              Table 9: Procurement ­ World Bank assisted RNTCP ­ Phase I
                                                             Procurement of Anti TB Drugs
                                                                    (In thousands)

             1998-1999  1999-2000  2000 - 01        2001 - 02                                 2002 - 03                 2003 - 04
                                                         Additional    Loose        GOI      Additional   Loose    GOI          WHO
                                                             Qty       Drugs                     Qty      Drugs               Emergenc
                                                                                                                                  y
                                                                                                                               Procurem
                                                                                                                                  nt

 Category I    542.0      128.3     219.6      372.0        111.6                   341.0        56.2              128.2         226.3

 Category II   21.8       51.7       86.4      150           47.2                   137.5        23                47.2          82.0
 Category
 III           42.0       99.3       180       288           72                      264         43.3              175.4         159.7

 PP             3.0        3.0       5.4       13.5          4.0                    11.2                                         2.90

 Inj SM        4965       6979      9008       5500         1133.7                 8105.0       1495               57614
 Rifampicin
 150           72.2       207.9      22.4                                623                               4948
 Pyrazinami
 de 500        22.2       201.9      22.4                                70.6                             1120.0
 INH 100
 mg            72.2       100.7                                         778.2                             21794

 Combipack     1894      1336.6     1238.4                                           100
 Eth 800
 (Strip)       6930      5937.8     5954.4     2200                                4154.3
 INH 300
 (Strip)       6930      5052.9     6181.4     2500                                4234.5
 PC 12 (Pza
 750                        -       206.4
 PC 13
 (Rifa 450)               85.4       85.4




                                                    Table 10:

                                 Procurement of Binocular Microscopes

          Supplier               QTY
MLW Supply 1                    2734
HSCC                            2968
MECON                           1730
NK Jain                         3020
Total:
                                10,452




                                                       - 48 -

- 49 -

