Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2936 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Tuberculosis Control Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 14, 1997
- 25 -
CREDIT NUMBER 2936 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 1997, between India, acting by its 
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Develop-ment 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
Page  2
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
 (a)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
 (b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter to 
the United 
Nations.”; and
 (c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Credit for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or 
(c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or 
the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the Association determines 
that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall 
remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, 
the Association may, by 
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount of the 
Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02.  Unless the  context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Central Institutions” mean the following:
(i)
National Tuberculosis Institute, Bangalore;
(ii)
Tuberculosis Research Center, Madras;
(iii)
Lala Ram Swarup Institute of Tuberculosis and allied 
Diseases, Delhi;
(iv)
All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, 
Calcutta; and
(v)
Any other institutions mutually agreed between the 
Association and the 
Borrower.
(b)
“Central Unit” means the Central Management Unit for RNTP 
Page  3
(as hereinafter defined) in the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare;
(c)
“District” means an administrative unit or a Municipal 
Corporation within a State;
(d)
“DOT” means Directly Observed Therapy and “DOTS” means 
Directly Observed Therapy, Short-Course;
(e)
“FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and the States 
from April 1 to March 31 each year;
(f)
“Program” means the National Tuberculosis Control Program of 
the Borrower, including RNTP;
(g)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an 
exchange of letters dated  November 30, 1994 and December 22, 1994 
between the Borrower and the Association;
(h)
“Project State” means any State that is carrying out any 
portion of the Project;
(i)
“RNTP” means the Revised National Tuberculosis Control 
Program of the Borrower;
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(k)
“SCC” means Short Course Chemotherapy; and
(l)
“State” means a State of India or a Union Territory, and 
includes any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
ninety-eight million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
98,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of 
India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 
2007, and ending February 1, 2032. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on February 1, 2017, shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the abovementioned 
repayment modification.
Page  5
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,  the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and public health practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limiting any of its obligations under this 
Agreement, the Borrower: (i) shall cause each Project State to carry out 
its respective portion of the Project in accordance with the provisions 
of this Agreement; (ii) shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable such Project State to 
perform such obligations; and (iii) shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and 
(b) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause each 
Project State to carry out the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit 
available to each Project State for such parts of the Project as are to 
be carried out by such Project State in accordance with the Borrower’s 
standard arrangements for development assistance to the Project States.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX 
of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Program; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
Page  6
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about December  31, 
1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by April 30, 2000, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05.  Without limitation upon the provisions of any other 
part of this Agreement:  
(a) 
the Borrower shall, and shall cause each Project State to 
carry out its portion of the Project, in accordance with a Letter of 
Undertaking (Letter of Undertaking) by the Project State with terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) 
the Borrower shall not amend or suspend any provisions under 
the Letter of Undertaking without the prior approval of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and 
the States responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii) 
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the end of 
each such year, a certified copy of the 
report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
Page  7
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the 
Associa-tion has received the audit 
for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the proce-dures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Schedule 4 of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) 
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project State shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligation under its respective Letter of Undertaking.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any Project State will be able to perform its 
obligations under its respective Letter of Undertaking.
(c)
The Borrower shall have waived or failed to enforce any of 
the provisions of any Letter of Undertaking.  
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, 
Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of 
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
        64145 (WUI) or
        82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
Page  9
(1)
Works
  2,400,000
80%
(2)
Drugs, laboratory
 51,100,000
100% of 
foreign
equipment, goods
expenditures, 
100%
and vehicles
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory 
cost),
and 80% of 
local
expenditures 
for
other items 
procured 
locally
(3)
Publicity and
  2,300,000
85%
social marketing
services
(4)
Consultant services,
  5,500,000
100%
training, workshops,
and fellowships
(5)
Incremental costs for
 22,700,000
90% through 
June
salaries, honoraria,
30, 
1999, 75% from
laboratory supplies 
July 1, 
1999 to
and operation and
June 30, 
2000,  
maintenance
60% from July 1, 2000 
through June 
30, 2001,
and 40% 
thereafter
(6)
Refunding of Project
   800,000
Amount 
due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 
2.02(c) of
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
13,600,000
TOTAL
98,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “incremental costs” means the cost of additional 
staff employed for the purposes of the Project, the cost of operation and 
maintenance of vehicles and equipment procured under the Project, 
honoraria for the DOT workers and laboratory supplies for the RNTP and 
SCC Districts.
Page  10
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
 expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
expenditures incurred in, or by, any Project State unless 
that Project State has delivered to the Association, a Letter of 
Undertaking of such Project State satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for 
goods, works and services under contracts:
(i) costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent each for goods and works; (ii) costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for employment of consulting firms; (iii) 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and 
(iv) incremental costs under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in reducing 
mortality, morbidity and disability by curing tuberculosis cases through 
the strengthening of the National Tuberculosis Control Program, including 
the introduction of a revised strategy for tuberculosis control.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:  
Service Delivery 
The carrying out of a program of treatment for tuberculosis control 
through: (i) a revised strategy of directly-observed short-course 
chemotherapy (DOTS), (ii) a strengthened program of regular short-course 
chemotherapy treatment in place, and (iii) a strengthened program of 
conventional long-course chemotherapy currently in place.
Part B: 
Capacity Building and Skills Development
Carrying out a program of strengthening management cells at the 
central, state, city, district, and sub-district levels by introducing 
effective mechanisms for supervision, monitoring and communication; 
providing inputs for strengthening the Central Institutions, and State 
Demonstration and Training Centers, Medical Colleges and other selected 
training institutions; developing operational research capacity and 
developing technical, managerial and interpersonal skills.
Part C:
Information, Education and Communication (IEC), Outreach 
Activities and Community 
Involvement
Carrying out a program of: (i) training in IEC to strengthen IEC 
cells of the Borrower and the Project States; (ii) production of 
educational counseling materials for health providers in the public and 
private sectors, (iii) integration, through a newsletter, of program 
information, recognition schemes and basic medical information on RNTP 
and the Program norms; (iv) development of counseling materials for 
patients, (v) development of materials (including limited use of mass 
media) for social workers and the public to create a more favorable 
social environment  for those with Tuberculosis; (vi) training in 
interpersonal communication and counseling of patients; (vii) involving 
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in policy planning and 
implementation; (viii) involving cured patients who have adhered 
faithfully to the treatment in the interpersonal communication program, 
Page  11
and (ix) involving community leaders such as the Panchayats, women’s 
groups, NGOs and grass-roots organizations to support initiatives to help 
tuberculosis patients.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B:
(a)
To the extent practicable, contracts for laboratory 
equipment and drugs will be bulked into bid packages estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for drugs, vehicles, equipment, and materials, estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines up to the following amounts:
(a) 
for drugs, up to $8,200,000 equivalent in the aggregate;
(b)
for laboratory equipment, up to $1,300,000 equivalent in the 
aggregate;
(c)
for goods, up to $2,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate; and
(d)
for laboratory supplies, up to $2,400,000 equivalent in the 
aggregate.
2.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provision of paragraph 1 of this Part 
C, drugs estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 in aggregate may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
3.
National Shopping
Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 each or less 
may be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 up to the 
following amounts: (i) for laboratory supplies up to $21,700,000 in the 
aggregate; (ii) for goods and vehicles up to $6,100,000 in the aggregate; 
and (iii) for laboratory equipment up to $600,000 in the aggregate.
4.
Procurement of Works
Works may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded 
on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Force Account
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of subparagraph 3 of this 
Part C, works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines and costing $480,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account 
in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for works and goods estimated to 
cost equal or more than $200,000 equivalent; and (b) the first three 
contracts to be procured by each  Project State, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the 
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the 
Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by 
the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the 
Association shall be used.
Page  13
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association 
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters 
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project and shall cause the 
Project States to implement the Project according to the policies and 
norms of the Program including the revised strategy or RNTP, and shall 
not make changes to the policies or guidelines of the Program which, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Association, would adversely affect the 
Project.
2.
The Borrower  shall ensure that: (a) the SCC treatment regimen 
provided for in the SCC Districts would not include Rifampicin without 
DOT in the continuation phase;  (b) the RNTP patient registration system 
would be utilized in those districts for quarterly reporting on case 
finding, smear conversion, treatment outcome, and medication ordering; 
and (c) supply of SCC drugs by the Project to a district shall be liable 
to be discontinued if the district fails to maintain an annual average of 
60% cure rate after the first two quarters of implementation.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) 
drugs shall be provided on 
a regular basis for all smear-positive cases in such Districts where RNTP 
is not being carried out; and (b)  conventional drugs have been provided 
for smear-negative patients based on expected case load.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that, in the Project States where RNTP is 
being carried out,  the Project States shall develop and implement: 
(a)
a strategy for involvement of NGOs and associations, such as 
the Indian Medical Association; 
(b) 
a strategy for qualified medical practitioners, which could 
incorporate the following elements: (i) continuing medical education; 
(ii) information, education and communication about various aspects of 
tuberculosis; and (iii) referral mechanisms to RNTP; and 
(c)
a strategy to promote referral of symptomatic patients to 
RNTP by other health practitioners;
Provided that none of the foregoing strategies shall involve provision of 
drugs to private practitioners.  These strategies may be reviewed by the 
Borrower, Project States and Association from time to time and specific 
annual plans of action for such strategies shall be furnished to the 
Association no later than March 31 every two years.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
only such districts which have met the eligibility criteria 
for each level of participation shall participate in the RNTP;
Page  14
(b)
the first two appraisals of the Districts eligible to enter 
the RNTP in accordance with the Program, will be furnished to the 
Association for review prior to approval by the Borrower; and
(c)
the Borrower shall provide a sample of 20% of district 
project appraisals approved by the Borrower for review by the Association 
on an ex-post basis.
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a)
the Central Unit and RNTP units in the Project States shall 
be adequately staffed and maintained for the duration of the Project and 
at least 50% of the additional staff at the Central Unit and units in the 
Project States carrying out RNTP shall be in position by July 1, 1997, 
and 90% of the staff shall be in place by December 31, 1997;
(b)
by July 31, 1997, a full time State Tuberculosis Officer 
shall be in position  in all Project States carrying out RNTP; and
(c)
ordinarily, District Tuberculosis Officers shall remain in 
their posts for a minimum of two years.
7.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
Tuberculosis Societies at the district level shall be 
established as follows:  (i)  by March 31, 1997 in the first 39 RNTP 
districts; (ii)  by January 31, 1998 in the next 39 RNTP districts; and 
(iii)  by January 31, 1999 in the remaining 24 RNTP districts; and 
(b)
no RNTP activities relating to service delivery shall be 
initiated in a district prior to the establishment of a Tuberculosis 
Society in such district.
8.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
the Central Institutions shall adopt and promote RNTP in 
activities relevant to the Project and shall agree to carry out their 
training, monitoring and quality control functions, including the 
development and maintenance of demonstration sites for field practice, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Borrower and the 
Association; and
(b)
an annual report on the Central Institutions’ performance 
and recommendations for action shall be furnished to the Association by 
December 31 of each year during the first three years of the Project, and 
continued involvement of these institutions in the activities of the 
Project will be determined by mutual agreement between the Association 
and Borrower based on their performance.
9.
The Borrower shall establish: (a) an appropriate information system 
no later than November 30, 1997; and (b) by December 31, 1998, an 
information system to allow electronic reporting, based on technical 
specifications to be agreed with the Association.
10.
The Borrower shall ensure that the RNTP new curricula, including 
the new curricula for participatory training in interpersonal skills, 
shall be used in training of all categories of staff no later than 
September 30, 1997.
11.
The Borrower shall allocate, and cause the Project States to 
allocate, each year sufficient funds for the Program.
12.
The Borrower shall cause the Project States to:
(a)
implement a strategy in tribal areas in accordance with the  
Plan of Action for Delivery of Tuberculosis Services in Tribal Areas 
Page  15
approved by the Association, and to furnish detailed plans to implement 
said strategy in tribal areas as part of the eligibility criteria for a 
district’s participation in the RNTP; and
(b)
carry out biannual beneficiary assessments based on terms of 
reference approved by the Association starting after the second year of 
the Project to determine the effectiveness and progress of said strategy.
13.
The Borrower shall carry out annual assessment of the drug 
procurement, storage and distribution system through an independent 
agency and with terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
14.
The Borrower shall carry out an independent review of the Project 
within the first two and a half years of the Project and the review shall 
be conducted by a panel of national and international experts; and the 
findings of such review shall be furnished to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $6,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$3,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 22,000,000.
2.
(a)
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule;
(b)
Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit) 
for an eligible expenditure in an amount to or less than the equivalent 
of $2,100,000 shall be made exclusively out of the Special Account. The 
Association from time to time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the 
threshold amount specified in the preceding sentence.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  16
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
Page  17
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
