Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6559-CM
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
(REPORT NO. P-6559-CM)
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 6.9 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAI. ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARCH 23, 1995



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 2, 1995)
Currency Unit                                CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                                         CFAF 515
CFAF I million                                US$1,942
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASECNA        = Agence pour la Securite Aerienne en Afrique et de Madagascar
(Air Safety Agency for Africa and Madagascar)
BMZ           = Bundesministerium fur Zusammenarbeit
(German Ministry for Cooperation)
CAMAIR        = Cameroon Airlines
CAMSHIP       = Cameroon Shipping Lines
CAMTAINER  = Societe Nationale de Transport et de Transit du Cameroun
(Cameroon Container Transport and Freight Forwarder Company)
CAR           = Republique Centrafricaine (Central African Republic)
CAS           = Country Assistance Strategy
CFD           = Caisse Francaise de Developpement (French Development Agency)
CIF           = Cost, Insurance, Freight
CNCC          = Conseil National des Chargeurs du Cameroun (Shippers' Council)
CNIC          = Chantier Naval et Industriel du Cameroun (Cameroon Dockyard)
CNPS          = Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale (National Social Security Fund)
DMN           = Developing Maritime Nations
DGTC          = Direction Generale des Grands Travaux du Cameroun
(General Directorate for Large Works of Cameroon)
DPO           = Deferred Privatization Option
ERC           = Economic Recovery Credit
ESOP          = Employee Stock Ownership Program
EU            = European Union
FAC           = Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Cooperation Fund)
FOB           = Free on Board
FY            = Fiscal Year
GDP           = Gross Domestic Product
GOC           = Government of Cameroon
IBRD          = International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO          = International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA           = International Development Association
IMF           = International Monetary Fund
IRU           = International Road Union
LABOGENIE  = Laboratoire National de Genie Civil (National Road Laboratory)
MATGENIE   = Parc National de Materiel de Genie Civil (Equipment Pool)
MC            = Management Contract



MINEFI        = Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MINT          = Ministere des Transports (Ministry of Transport)
MINTP         = Ministere des Travaux Publics (Ministry of Public Works)
OECF          = Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
ONPC          = Office National des Ports du Cameroun (Cameroon National Port Authority)
PE            = Public Enterprise
PIP           = Public Investment Program
PPF           = Project Preparation Facility
PSO           = Public Service Obligation
REER          = Real Effective Exchange Rate
REGIFERCAM = Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun (Cameroon Railways)
SAC           = Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL           = Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP           = Structural Adjustment Program
SAR           = Staff Appraisal Report
SME           = Small and Medium Enterprise
SNH           = Societe Nationale d'Hydrocarbures (National Oil Company)
SNI           = Societe Nationale d'Investissement (State Holding Company)
SOCAMAC    = Societe d'Amenagement et de Manutention du Cameroun
(Port Handling Company of Cameroon)
SOTUC         = Societe de Transport Urbain du Cameroun
(Urban Public Transport Company)
SSATP         = Sub-Saharan African Transport Policy Program
TICU          = Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit
TIR           = Transit International Routier (International Road Transit)
TIPAC         = Transit Inter-Etats des Pays de l'Afrique Centrale
(Central African Countries Regional Transit)
TSAC          = Transport Sector Adjustment Credit
TSP           = Transport Sector Project
UDEAC         = Union Douaniere et Economique de l'Afrique Centrale
(Central Africa Customs and Economic Union)
UNCTAD        = United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30






REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section A. Detailed Project Description         ..1........................... I
1. Country Background.                                                                 I
II.   Transport Sector Issues ..........................     ..               .         4
III.  Transport Sector Reform Program .................................................... 13
IV.  Lessons Learned and Strategy for IDA Assistance to the Transport
Sector in Cameroon .22
V. Project Description .23
Section B. Project Costs and Administration        ..27
I. Project Costs .27
11. Procurement .27
lII. Disburseients .29
IV. Accounting and Auditig .29
Section C. Implementation and Monitoring          ..31
I. Organization and Management .31
lI. Implementation Schedule .31
III.  Reporting and Monitoring ..................                                    31
IV. Supervision Plan .32
V. Mid-Term Review .32



Schedule 1: Central Government Operations and Other Macro-economic Data ...................... 33
Schedule 2: Maritime Transport Regulation and Development in sub-Saharan African Countries 34
Schedule 3: Importance of Transport Sector Public Enterprises in the Overall
Public  Enterprise  Sector ...........................................................,.,.,,,.,.37
Schedule 4:  CAMAIR.  A  Company  Profile .....................................................,.,.,.,.38
Schedule  5:  REGIFERCAM.  A  Company  Profile    .                                    ................................................... 41
Schedule  6:  SOTUC.  A  Company  Profile ....................................................                                                          43
Schedule 7: CAMSHIP. A Company Profile ..................................... 45
Schedule 8: CAMTAINER. A Company Profile ....................................                                                                           46
Schedule 9: ONPC. A Company Profile ................................... ,                                                  , , .                      . 47
Schedule 10:CNIC. A Company Profile                                               .................................. 49
Schedule 11l:MATGENIE. A Company Profile                                                  ................................... 52
Schedule 12:LABOGENIE. A Company Profile                                                    .................. ................ 53
Schedule 13:Road Maintenance Budget and Performance                                                  .............................. 54
Schedule 14:Strategy, Timetable, and Key Financial Data for the Privatization of Air Services .. 55
Schedule 15:Strategy, Timetable, and Key Financial Data for the
Privatization  of Rail Services .....................................................                                               64
Schedule 16:Key Financial Data and Timetable for the Privatization of
CAMSHIP and CAMTAINER .....................................................                                                         75
Schiedule  17:Benefits  Resulting  from   the  Privatization  of Transport Public  Enterprises ............. 79
Schedule 18:Action Plan and Timetable for the Transit Component of the UDEAC
Transport Reform   Program  ..............................................................                                          82
Schedule 19:lmplementation Schedule of Transport Sector Reform  Program .......................... 83
Schedule  20. Expected  Results and  Timing  for Key  Project Activities  ...........                                           ....................... 85
Schedule  21.List of Project Activities and  Procurement Procedures ..................................... 86
Schedule  22.Guidelines  for Preparing  Training  Activities ................................................. 88
Schedule  23.Detailed  Project Costs ........................                                     ...................................... 89
Schedule 24.Implementation Schedule .9............................................................... 90
Schedule  25.Supervision  Plan  ..............................................................  91



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.    Chapter I presents the country background to place the proposed project in the context of past
and current economic adjustment. Chapter II presents the transport sector issues. Chapter III presents
the reform program prepared by the Government, as of end-1994, to address these issues. Chapter IV
proposes a strategy for IDA assistance to the transport sector in Cameroon based on lessons learned
from Bank Group involvement in Cameroon. Chapter V provides the project description.
I. Country Background
Economic Background
2.    Cameroon is among the countries with the greatest development potential in the region. Until
1985, its economic growth averaged 7 percent per year sustained by abundant natural resources
(tropical forests, petroleum, bauxite, natural gas, fertile agricultural land, and a largely favorable
climate). Agriculture was the main source of growth and foreign exchange earnings until 1978, when
oil production began and became the corner stone of economic growth.
3.    The favorable economic indicators, and the sudden flow of oil revenues concealed Cameroon's
mounting structural problems. The traditional growth sectors, particularly agriculture, were neglected
and their productivity declined. The multitude of public enterprises (PEs) created during this period
were inefficient and eventually became bankrupt while draining huge resources from the State budget.
The banking sector practiced imprudent lending by becoming overly dependent on oil revenues and
large Government deposits. The investment in public infrastructure was not selected to respond to
priority or social needs and was not followed by proper maintenance. The long-term debt increased
from less than 20 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1976 to about 50 percent in 1992.
4.    In addition to the structural problems, Cameroon suffered from two major shocks. Firstly, as a
result of a sharp decline in export prices by petroleum in 1986, followed by cocoa and coffee, the external
terms of trade fell by more than 55 percent from 1985 to 1989. Secondly, the real effective exchange rate
(REER) started to appreciate following the US dollar and Nigerian Naira depreciation in 1985-1986, and
continued as Cameroon's inflation rate consistently remained above those of its main trading partniers. It is
estimated that the REER appreciated by more than 40 percent from 1985 to 1989. Real GDP fell by an
average of 3.4 percent a year from 1986 to 1989, and real per capita income dropped by almost 40 percent
during the same period.
5.    In 1988, the Government launched an adjustment program with support of the IMF and the
World Bank. However, the program was not implemented consistently and its main objectives were
not attained. While some progress was made in diminishing government intervention in the economy,
reducing price controls on domestically traded goods, lifting a number of quantitative restrictions on
imports, and rationalizing the incentives framework, the fundamental structural problems of the
economy remained unaddressed. As a result, external competitiveness continued to decline, external
and internal imbalances worsened, and the economic and financial situation did not improve. Tax
revenues deteriorated while total current expenditures remained unchanged, thus shifting the primary
1



fiscal situation from a surplus in 1989, to a deficit of 2 percent of GDP in 1992. Key macro-economic
data are presented in Schedule 1.
6.     Political uncertainties and weak social indicators aggravate the picture. Attempts to establish a
national political consensus have thus far failed. The country is now facing major problems of poverty,
unemployment, illiteracy and population growth. A fourth of the urban population lives below the poverty
threshold. Unemployment is high among urban women and youth, and has worsened with the contraction
of the economic activity. In rural areas, poverty and unemployment are rising due to the decline in
agriculture. Malnutrition is recurrent among rural women and children, especially in the north. Adult
female illiteracy is high. Health care delivery is poor. High fertility rates and population growth (3.3
percent per annum), and the scarcity of resources allocated to health and education have worsened
conditions for the poor.
Economic Prospects
7.     A major change occurred on January 1994, when the Government of Cameroon, along with its
partner countries in the CFA zone, decided to adjust the parity of the CFA Franc from CFAF 50 per
French Franc (FF) to CFAF 100 per FF. To take advantage of the positive effects of the devaluation,
the Government, with the assistance of the IMF and IDA, began implementing a program of economic
measures and structural reforms. The program, supported by an IMF Standby Arrangement (approved
on March 14, 1994) and an IDA Economic Recovery Credit (ERC, Cr. No. 2627-CM, approved on June
10, 1994), covers three key areas: (a) redimensioning of the public sector and improved public resource
management; (b) an improved incentives framework for the productive sectors; and (c) targeted
poverty alleviating measures.
8.    In conjunction with the effects of the devaluation, the program is expected to end the recession
and result in positive real growth, provided it is successful in achieving its objectives. Real GDP
growth is projected to average about 5 percent per annum from 1995/96 onwards, primarily as a result
of improved performance in the tradable sector, sustained by increased investment levels as confidence
is reestablished. Public sector investments are projected to recover gradually from 2.2 percent of GDP
in 1992/93 to about 4 percent in 1996/97. As a result of reforms of the trade regime, the financial
system and the public enterprise (PE) sector, and as the public finance situation is brought under
control, private investment is expected to rise from 8.7 percent of GDP in 1992/93, to about 12-13
percent in 1996/97. Due to a serious external debt overhang, most of the increase in investments will
have to be financed by domestic savings, which will need to increase from 9.8 percent of GDP in
1992/93 to about 20 percent in 1996/97. Private savings will be stimulated by the recovery of
economic growth and an improved external trade position. Public sector savings are projected to turn
around substantially, as tax reform and expenditure control translate into improved fiscal balances.
Country Assistance Strategy
9.     The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the medium term was formulated in conjunction
with the preparation of the ERC. The CAS's objectives are: (a) to redimension, focus, and improve
the public sector through: (i) a stronger mobilization and more efficient use of public resources, the
downsizing and reorganization of the civil service, and the divestiture and restructuring of PEs; and (ii)
improved macroeconomic management in such areas as institutional reforms of the public procurement
system, environmental protection and the rational use and management of natural resources; (b) to
increase productive capacity through: (i) reform of the legal and regulatory environment, aimed at
deregulation and liberalization; (ii) maintenance and development of basic infrastructure; (iii) support
2



to human resources development; and (iv) strengthening the financial sector; and (c) to focus
interventions on poverty alleviation, including improvements in the delivery of social services to low-
income groups.  To be consistent with the strategy, the lending portfolio, suffering from major
implementation problems, was restructured in 1993 to focus implementation on immediate priorities
and to reduce undisbursed IBRD balances. Following the devaluation of the CFA Franc, Bank Group
financial support to help implement the CAS is on IDA terms.
10.    The proposed project is consistent with the CAS, and will help achieve its objectives by
preparing: (a) privatization/liquidation of transport PEs and restructuring sector ministries; (b)
liberalization of air, urban and maritime transport, and through privatization of road maintenance and
dredging execution; and (c) the use of labor-based methods in road maintenance.
Public Enterprise Reform and Private Sector Development
11.    Since 1989, the Government of Cameroon has implemented reforms to promote private sector
development. These reforms include: (a) tax and tariff reforms to introduce a value added tax,
simplify the tariff structure to only four rates, reduce rates, and eliminate exemptions benefiting certain
goods and companies; (b) trade reform to abolish all remaining quantitative restrictions on merchandise
imports; and (c) legal reform with the adoption of a new labor code which makes the employer-
employee relationship more flexible, as well as a new investment code.
12.    The current institutional framework for privatization proved inoperative during the previous
PE  reform  initiated under the first Structural Adjustment Program  (SAP).   Laws related to
privatization are too numerous, of varying authority, and often both overlapping and conflicting. An
Interministerial Committee, consisting of about 13 Ministers, chooses the enterprise to be privatized,
the method of privatization, the sale price, the buyer, and follows up on the privatization. The large
number of ministers in the Committee makes it highly politicized and hardly efficient. A Technical
Commission (the Commission) prepares the evaluation of companies, the issuance of tenders, and
preliminary negotiations with potential buyers. The final decision is taken by the Head of State, who
can be involved in the decision-making process at any step of the procedure. The Prime Minister is
given the authority to define the procedures for privatization and liquidation, but needs approval by the
Head of State. Moreover, outside the system is the state holding company SNI, which controls many
state-owned enterprises. The procedures lack transparency. Bidding is more an exception than the
regular procedure. Bidding outcomes can be modified or a procedure other than bidding can be chosen
to give preference to civil servants, employees of the enterprise to be privatized or liquidated, or to
farmers in the case of agricultural enterprises.
13.   In addition to the unsatisfactory institutional framework, lack of political commitment has
hindered the implementation of a coherent privatization/liquidation program. The Commission has not
formulated a comprehensive strategy defining clearly the PEs to be privatized and the ones to remain in
the State portfolio, and the policy measures necessary to monitor PEs and improve their management.
Too much focus was placed on rehabilitation, which mainly consisted of financial restructuring, with
the State taking care of PEs' operational losses and debt through performance contracts, rather than on
addressing the causes of the losses -- e.g. overstaffing, inefficient management, political interference
with management. No priority guidelines were established to determine the enterprises to be placed
under performance contracts. The Commission has not been able to monitor the design and the
implementation of all these contracts.
3



14.   As of end-1993, of the first 15 PEs designated in 1990 for privatization, 5 had been privatized,
5 were in the process of being privatized, 3 had been liquidated, and 2 were on stand-by for
privatization.  Since 1990, the Interministerial Committee had designated 8 more enterprises for
privatization, but only 4 operations were underway.  Sixty-four PEs were in different stages of
liquidation. Of these, 25 were administrative liquidations in which the Government had become
responsible for the payment of the debt. Six were banks that had been liquidated under the program for
reforming the banking sector. Thirty-three were in the SNI portfolio and the liquidation was dealt with
directly by SNI.  One hundred and twenty PEs remained in the State portfolio.  Twenty-five
performance contracts were signed, and 5 were being negotiated. The Commission had scheduled
diagnostic studies for 27 PEs, but only three studies had already begun. Of the 120 PEs, only 27 were
introduced in the Management Information System set up by the Mission to monitor the PE sector.
15.   The Declaration of Policy adopted by the Government in June 1994, as a condition for Board
presentation of the ERC, emphasizes the need for State retrenchment from commercial activities. The
objective for public enterprise reform is to divest all the PEs currently engaged in production as well
as in commercial activities. The Declaration specifies that the Government should list at least 10 PEs
every year to be privatized or liquidated. Fifteen enterprises were listed in July 1994. They included
the national airline, the railways, the urban bus company, the national shipping line, and the national
freight forwarder. The Government also intends to gradually bring private equity participation into the
State oil monopoly. To enhance the performance of enterprises not yet undergoing privatization, and
improve efficiency and transparency, the Government intends to develop private equity participation
and management contracts.
16.   To ensure an expeditious, efficient and transparent State divestiture, the Government is
currently revising the institutional framework for PE Reform as intended in the 1994 Declaration of
Policy. The Ministry of Economy and Finance has been mandated to implement this reform. In this
respect, a powerful, autonomous unit would be established within the Ministry. This unit would be
staffed with a small team of professionals well known for their integrity and experience in business
management. The revised institutional framework would be established under a proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC), under preparation.
17.   Domestic Debt. The settlement of Government domestic debt is a priority for the economy. A
substantial amount of the debt service and arrears are simply not paid, causing economic decline
through serious illiquidity of the banking system, as well as low returns on private investment. Based
on the preliminary outcomes of an on-going analysis of the domestic debt, the Government domestic
debt accounts for 75 percent of the total domestic public sector debt, which amounts to about US$4
billion and accounts for about 45 percent of the external debt, 50 percent of GDP and six times the
1993-1994 budgetary receipts. The Government and IDA are currently working on the definition of a
strategy to settle the domestic debt.
II. Transport Sector Issues
18.    Sector Performance.  Weak management of institutions, and an unsatisfactory regulatory
framework have caused the transport sector to have a major negative impact on the overall economy.
The Government gave priority to investment and to protection of PEs.  As a result, transport
infrastructure has lacked maintenance and PEs have drained scarce State resources. The consequences
are a lack of competitiveness within the transport sector, the running down of existing assets, and a
lack of resources for investment.
4



19.    Weak Sector Management and Institutions.  Sector ministries are overstaffed and have
interfered negatively with PE management and decisions on staffing, operations and investments.
Ministries' responsibilities overlap. The Government institutions involved are the Ministry of Public
Works (MINTP), with about 6,700 employees, and the Ministry of Transport (MINT), with about 880
employees.  MINTP runs an inefficient, unaccountable road maintenance system driven by force
account.  MINT's role is to oversee transport PEs, but instead, it has interfered with their
management, hindering both their autonomy and performance.  MINT initiates and supervises
regulations for road, rail, air, and transit and maritime transport.  It also oversees the Shippers'
Council (CNCC), which controls the distribution of Cameroon's maritime traffic under the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)'s Code of Conduct (40-40-20), negotiates
liner conference tariffs, and represents Cameroonian shippers' interests.
20.   The functions of the Directorate of Large Works of Cameroon (DGTC), which has about 150
employees, overlap with those of the other sector institutions. DGTC reports to the Prime Ministry.
It prepares and supervises large works, including roads. DGTC has given priority to investment to the
detriment of maintenance. Road investment has not been coordinated between DGTC and MINTP.
DGTC has not achieved its objective of reducing construction costs and making enterprises comply
with contractual time stipulations. The Government has thus far rejected IDA's recommendation to
give full management responsibility in the road subsector to MINTP, and to stop DGTC's involvement
as executing agency for large road works. DGTC also procures contracts above about US$100,000
equivalent for ministries, and about US$365,000 for PEs.  DGTC serves as a secretariat to the
National Tender Board on procurement decisions. The country procurement review carried out by
IDA in 1993, qualified the local procurement procedures as critically deficient because of little
transparency in bid evaluation and award of contracts, resulting in long procurement processing and
high costs. IDA and the Government of Cameroon agreed on a revised national procurement code in
December 1994. Thresholds for DGTC's involvement would be above US$1 million for works,
US$0.6 million for goods, and US$0.4 million for consultants. Implementation of the new code is part
of the macro-economic reform supported by the proposed SAC.
21.    Unsatisfactory Regulatory Framework.  The current framework is an obstacle to effective
competition in some transport subsectors and is dysfunctional overall:
(a)    Civil Aviation: Domestic fares on routes serviced by CAMAIR are regulated and
subsidized. Other domestic companies were authorized in 1994 to operate regular or
charter flights in Cameroon. Regional and international air cargo services are not
developed, although the market does exist. High aviation fuel prices in Cameroon due
to local taxes impede civil aviation development.
(b)    Railway: The transport component of the price structure for petroleum products does
not promote competition and does not encourage petroleum companies to use the
railway to transport these products within the country despite its comparative
advantage, especially for transport towards the Northern regions.
(c)    Urban Transport: The Government has decided to liquidate SOTUC, the urban bus
company, which held the monopoly on urban transport with more than seven-seat
vehicles. The regulation needs to be revised accordingly.
(d)    Interurban Road Transport: A bureau of freight was created in 1994 to control the
distribution of transit traffic to Chad and the Central African Republic between
5



Cameroonian, Chadian and Central African transporters.  This is likely to reduce
sector efficiency and increase transport costs. The road taxation system is complex and
cumbersome, with about 15 taxes collected at different stages, by different institutions.
(e)    Maritime transport: The negotiations of tariffs between shipping lines and the shippers'
council have kept tariffs at the same official level for several years, although they have
decreased in the rest of the world on average by an annual 4 percent between 1980 and
1992, and by an annual 7 percent since 1989. These negotiations and unofficial rebates
proposed by the shipping lines cause lack a of transparency in the transport market.
The current regulation protects the national shipping lines, and its application causes
delays and increases costs of international maritime transport, thereby impeding the
country's competitiveness (see background note on maritime transport regulation in
sub-Saharan countries in Schedule 2).
22.   Non-Performing Transport Sector Public Enterprises. Seven PEs are under the jurisdiction of
MINT: the national airline (CAMAIR), with about 1,600 employees; the railway company
(REGIFERCAM) with about 4,000 employees, operating about 1,000 km of railways; the urban bus
company (SOTUC) with about 1,050 employees, operating bus lines in Yaounde and Douala; the
national shipping line (CAMSHIP) with about 280 employees, including 80 sailors; the national freight
forwarder and road transport company (CAMTAINER) with about 200 employees; the National Port
Authority (ONPC) with about 1,000 employees, managing Cameroon's main port at Douala and three
secondary ports, and the national dockyard (CNIC) with about 130 employees, operating a maritime
workshop and dry-dock. Two PEs fall under the jurisdiction of MINTP: the equipment pool for road
maintenance (MATGENIE) with about 400 employees, and the road laboratory (LABOGENIE) with
about 530 employees, which controls the norms and standards of road and building construction, and
carries out research.
23.    Seven out of nine transport sector PEs are bankrupt and drain huge resources from the State
budget. The transport sector PEs' debts and arrears severely constrain the State Treasury. At the end
of FY93, direct subsidies needed to cover transport PEs' deficit amounted to US$55 million,
equivalent to 8 percent of the State revenues. About US$240 million of subsidies had been allocated to
transport sector PEs between FY90 and FY92, of which 84 percent to CAMAIR. As of 1994, the total
domestic debt for the nine sector PEs is estimated at CFAF 122 billion, US$236 million equivalent
(Table 1). This accounts for about 24 percent of the total debt of the 34 major PEs in Cameroon, 6
percent of the total domestic debt and 3 percent of the gross domestic product. REGIFERCAM,
CAMSHIP and SOTUC are the most important debtors to the State among transport PEs. Transport
PEs owe US$74 million to the State, which amounts to 19 percent of the total PE debt due do the
State. SOTUC, MATGENIE, ONPC and LABOGENIE are the most important creditors of the State
among transport PEs. The State owes US$93 million to these enterprises which accounts to 22 percent
of the total State's debt due to PEs. Schedule 3 presents the key data which measure the importance of
the transport sector PEs among the PE sector.
6



Table 1: FY94 Short-term Debt of Transport Public Enterprises (CFAF billion)
SOTUC CAMSHIP ONPC  CAMAIR  REGIFER-  LABO-   MAT-    CAM-   TOTAL
1994    1994   1994   1994     CAM     GENIE   GENIE  TAINER
1994    1994    1994      1993
Arrears on salaries   5.0    0.0    0.1    0.5        0.3      1.9     2.7      0.0      10.5
Fiscal arrears        4.7    0.2    0.0    5.1        4.0      1.3     1.0      0.0      16.3
Arrears on Social Security    4.6    0.0    0.6    13.7  8.0   2.3     2.2      0.0      31.4
Bank overdrafts and arrears   6.7    0.0    0.0    8.9  6.8    1.8     0.2      0.0      24.4
Local suppliers       3.6    1.1    2.7    3.6        2.0      1.2     0.8       1.9     16.9
Extemal suppliers     0.0    0.7    0.0    3.5        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      4.2
Other debt and arrears  0.3    0.0    11.5    6.3     0.0      0.0     0.5      0.0      18.6
Total                 24.9    2.0    14.9   41.6      21.1     8.5     7.4       1.8    122.2
24.    In 1993/94, CAMAIR had an estimated debt of about US$78 million, with arrears of about
US$55 million, and a negative net worth of US$20 million, against assets of US$50 million. On the
basis of projected operating losses and debt service requirements, the company would need an annual
US$10 million subsidy to continue, and still be unable to renew its equipment when it reaches the end
of its economic life in five years.  Financial and operational management is poor and lacks
transparency. Fraud is widespread. The company is overstaffed by about 800 employees. CAMAIR
operates one B-747, and three short haul carriers (B-737) for regional and domestic flights.  A
company profile of CAMAIR and key financial data are presented in Schedule 4.
25.    Several attempts to restructure the company failed because the Government interfered with
management, in particular with respect to staffing decision. The company maintains the presidential
fleet without being paid for the service, and civil servants use CAMAIR without the Government
paying for all tickets.  The agreements under the performance contract concluded between the
Government and CAMAIR as part of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) conditionalities were
largely unfulfilled. The agreement to prepare a sale and lease-back arrangement for CAMAIR's long
haul carrier (B-747), signed by the Minister of Finance under the SAL, was rescinded by the President
of Cameroon. Despite the appointment, in October 1992, of a Director-General from Air France,
which is a minority shareholder (25 percent), the situation has not improved. Since 1992, when Air
France purchased UTA, the former French airline which serviced Cameroon, Air France's
participation and technical assistance entail a conflict of interest as the airline competes with CAMAIR
on the Douala-Paris line.
26.    REGIFERCAM's long-term debt (mostly in foreign currency) stood at about US$75 million
equivalent on June 30, 1994. Arrears to various bilateral donors, suppliers, and local banks amount to
about US$40 million equivalent.  Arrears to the Social Security system  amount to about US$15
million. During FY93, the enterprise incurred an operating loss, before subsidies, of about US$20
million (down from about US$52 million in 1988). Growth of log and timber traffic in 1994 has
improved the cash-flow situation but the long-term situation remains the same because of the
importance of the debt. The company plays an important role in domestic freight and transit transport.
Logs, wheat and flour, petroleum products, cotton, and transit goods are the largest items using
railway services.  In addition, the company provides passenger services to and from  Northern
Cameroon (at 620 km from Yaounde and 880 km from Douala), which is linked to other regions by an
earth road in poor condition. A company profile of REGIFERCAM and key financial data are
presented in Schedule 5.
7



27.    The company made substantial efforts within the framework of the performance contract signed
with the Government under the SAL in 1989. The management has been more commercially oriented
and has full autonomy to set tariffs and negotiate contracts. The number of employees was reduced
from 6,350 to about 4,000. REGIFERCAM concluded agreements with the State on compensation for
operating unprofitable passenger transport services under public service obligations. Some auxiliary
activities were privatized. But Government still interferes with some management and procurement
decisions, therefore limiting the potential for further efforts which would be required in view of the
still weak financial situation of the company.
28.    SOTUC, which owns 229 buses (107 in Yaounde and 122 in Douala), has been unprofitable
since 1988. In 1994, only about half of its buses were operational, and this number was rapidly
dwindling because of lack of maintenance. In FY93, SOTUC's net loss amounted to about US$7
million equivalent, with a turnover of US$4 million. By June 30, 1993, its negative net worth
amounted to about US$56 million equivalent, against assets with a book value of US$12 million. Its
arrears to banks, employees, suppliers, the Treasury, and the Social Security system amount to about
US$45 million. The Government's policy of maintaining a high number of staff, insisting on operating
uneconomic routes, and setting preferential tariffs for certain segments of the population has been the
principal cause of SOTUC's failure. It would have cost the State about US$7 million annually to
continue operating SOTUC over the next few years. A performance contract signed under the SAL
was never implemented. In 1994, because salaries had not been paid for more than one year, the
company had been defacto taken over by its employees who ran the buses for their own account. A
company profile of SOTUC and key financial data are presented in Schedule 6.
29.    Before devaluation, SOTUC's market share was less than 5 percent of total urban transport,
which is very low compared, for example, to 22 percent in Conakry and 41 percent in Abidjan for
similar public bus transport.  The police and military accounted for 28 percent of SOTUC's
passengers, but only 8 percent of its revenues. Students also paid reduced fares or no fare at all. The
Government has never compensated SOTUC for the full deficit caused by public service. Between
1986 and 1991, passenger volume dropped from 152,000 per day to 44,000, a decline of 70 percent in
five years. Most urban trips are done by private vehicles, by taxis or by foot. Until 1994, the taxi
fleet was estimated at about 5,000 in Yaounde and 5,500 in Douala. It is now shrinking and the
condition of vehicles is deteriorating quickly after the devaluation.  Transport tariffs cannot be
increased because the revenue per capita decreased significantly following salary reductions in 1993.
The cost of spare parts and new vehicles is now too expensive for owners to maintain or renew the
fleet. The share of the population walking is now estimated at around 40 percent.
30.    CAMSIHP's principal problem is a lack of competitiveness. Accordingly, it has been unable
to capture its full quota of Cameroon's merchandise trade under the UNCTAD's Code of Conduct,
despite the 34% participation of German shareholders, and was technically bankrupt until 1993. Until
FY89, CAMSHIP made profits of about US$6 million on sales of about US$80 million. In 1991, its
operating loss reached US$4.4 million, which increased to US$6 million before taxes in 1992. Its
working capital was negative by US$1 million in 1991. CAMSHIP owns two vessels and charters
ships for petroleum and clinker. Its vessels generate an annual loss of about US$1.5 million as they are
more costly to operate than modern ships (US$14,000 daily versus US$8,000). In June 1993, net
equity stood at below 75 percent of the company's initial capital, thus implying bankruptcy. The
company's liquidation value was estimated at US$20 million in 1993, below its cash-flow of US$32
million, calculated on a net present value basis of 20 years at the 20 percent annual interest rate
prevailing in Cameroon.
8



31.   CAMSHIP's debt was substantially restructured in an amount of US$21 million in a
convention concluded with the State in September 1993. The Government agreed to: (a) transfer to the
State the additional US$11 million debt incurred in the purchase, arranged by the Government, of two
vessels at above market value; and (b) reschedule over eight years the remaining bilateral debt due by
CAMSHIP, and assume that debt. As a result, the June 30, 1994, balance sheet shows a profit.
However, this agreement was not signed by the private shareholders of CAMSHIP, who do not agree
to participate in the capital increase as intended in the agreement. In addition, the company remains
burdened by its lead share (27 percent, US$2.6 million) in a real estate holding (SIMAR) created by
the Government to build a maritime office building, which has substantial arrears on its mortgage
payments (US$13 million). The mortgage banks could call the entire loan balance. Besides being a
financial burden on the State Treasury, the company impacts adversely on the maritime sector's
efficiency and competitiveness and on the country's economy. This is because application of quotas to
shippers under the UNCTAD's Code of Conduct results in high transport costs due to the absence of
competition between shipping lines servicing Cameroon. In addition, delays in transport operations
arise from cumbersome procedures created by the efforts of Cameroonian authorities to allocate its full
quota of traffic to CAMSHIP. A company profile and key financial data are presented in Schedule 7.
32.    CAMTAINER is heavily leveraged with an 87/13 debt/equity ratio, and has insufficient
revenues to meet debt service obligations. As a result of competition with other companies and its
overdesign at its creation, CAMTAINER has been unable to recover the cost of the initial investment
and is unprofitable.  In early-1995, its foreign partners (45%  German and Danish institutional
investors) agreed to debt-relief to improve the company's cash-flow. A company profile and key
financial data are presented in Schedule 8.
33.   ONPC breaks even, but at much too high costs and tariffs, and without providing efficient
services. Expenditures are estimated at one third above the normal level for the services rendered,
because of overstaffing and past over-investment. ONPC's management lacks both autonomy and
accountability. ONPC has been unable to maintain the access channel, whose depth was reduced from
7.2 m after rehabilitation in 1989, to 5.4 m in 1992. Lack of maintenance has resulted in the need for
more rehabilitation. The investment policy has not been based on financial return and capacity to
service the debt. ONPC is considering an unrealistic five-year US$275 million investment program, the
equivalent of 40% of overall Government investment, to finance a new dredger, a new container
terminal, the rehabilitation of the channel and construction of calibration dikes, the rehabilitation of the
Douala port infrastructure, the renovation of secondary ports, and the construction of two deep-sea
ports.  This plan is supported by the Government for political reasons, but the financing is not
available for its most important components. In FY93, salaries increased by 12 percent, although port
traffic remained the same than in FY92. Early 1995, the Government has contracted out the management
of a secondary port to a private investor.
34.   ONPC's tariffs are set arbitrarily and do not reflect costs.  Analytical accounting is being
implemented to provide the basis for a more accurate calculation of tariffs. ONPC increased its tariffs
for ships by 100 percent to 300 percent after devaluation, and intends to increase its other tariffs on
goods. ONPC revenues totaled US$33 million after devaluation, down from US$48 million before
devaluation, and were obtained from ships (piloting, tug boat services, occupation of berth space) for
about US$18 million, from goods for US$8 million, from renting-out warehouses and port space for
about US$6 million, and from non-port activities, such as the production and sale of ice, utilities and
other items. The operating results ranged between positive and negative during FY89-94. However,
until 1993, ONPC experienced serious liquidity shortages due to outstanding revenues on port tariffs
collected by customs, transferred to the Treasury, and partially from the Treasury to ONPC. A
9



substantial portion of ONPC's costs were derived from short-term bank lending to cover these dues,
amounting to about 30 percent of ONPC's revenues. At the end of 1993, the Ministry of Economy
and Finance agreed to let ONPC collect these revenues itself. A company profile and key financial
data are presented in Schedule 9.
35.   With Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) financing approved in 1987, ONPC
intends to modernize its container terminal. The project includes the provision of two ship-to-shore
cranes, four yard cranes and other equipment, as well as infrastructure rehabilitation. Total investment
cost, including the provision of spare parts during three years, is estimated at US$16 million. The
type of management has not yet been confirmed.  Operation and annual maintenance costs are
estimated at US$2.2 million and would entail a significant increase, ranging from 26 percent to 38
percent, in the container tariff. The economic rate of return of the investment is below 10 percent, and
would not be above this threshold until the year 2005, when Douala is expected to regain its
1985/1986 business level. ONPC's and Government's decision to proceed with the investment was the
main reason the Bank closed the Third Douala Port Project and canceled its undisbursed balance of
about US$1.8 million. In 1992, the Government, ONPC, OECF and the Bank agreed to the project
implementation schedule and the need for improvement in dredging execution to maximize the benefits
of the project. As a result, the channel depth increased from -5.4 m to -5.9 m in 1993.
36.   CNIC is subsidized by using the dry-dock without amortizing it in its accounts, and not paying
a lease to the State as the owner. It is reasonably well managed, but tends to seek Government's
assistance and favored treatment for work orders.  Its development plan is not consistent with its
financial capacity to service the debt, and CNIC expects the Government to cover the financing gap.
In 1994, CNIC's tariffs became more competitive because of the devaluation. The balance sheet has
continually improved since the creation of the dockyard, and showed profits for FY94. A company
profile and key financial data are presented in Schedule 10.
37.   MATGENIE has faced a liquidity crisis for several years because of accumulating Government
debts for services rendered in road construction and maintenance.  In 1993, the Government's
outstanding debt amounted to US$25 million. The company was overstaffed by about one third.
Unpaid salaries for more than one year led to low morale and strikes. MATGENIE's management and
Government did not move to improve the situation until 1994, when a new manager was appointed and
a restructuring plan prepared.  The plan was implemented in September 1994 with a new
administrative chart and staff reduction by about 50 percent, equivalent to 40 percent of the total salary
bill. Also, the management reduced salaries by 10 percent in January 1995. A company profile and
key financial data are presented in Schedule 11.
38.   Although LABOGENIE monopolized road laboratory works in Cameroon until recently, its
financial performance has deteriorated. Arrears from the Government, which was the only client,
amount to US$7 million. Due to external donor pressure, the market was opened to competition, and
LABOGENIE has benefited from externally-financed contracts, reducing its dependency on
Government financing. However, the volume of road construction works has severely decreased,
thereby strengthening the need for restructuring the company. Although LABOGENIE's staff was
reduced from 821 to 526 in 1991, the company remains overstaffed. With the Bank's assistance under
the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 2584-CM), financial management and commercial orientation have
improved. A company profile and key financial data are presented in Schedule 12.
39.   III Conceived Investments. Sector investments were oversized and did not take recurrent costs
into account. The Public Investment Program (PIP) has not reflected sector priorities or been based on
10



economic criteria and availability of local funds. For example, a new airport built in Yaounde for 1.5
million passengers per year is used by less than 100,000 passengers.  In Maroua, the airport's
rehabilitation is incomplete due to a lack of funds. Meanwhile, the main airport in Douala, with about
400,000 passengers per year, is not maintained and is deteriorating. In 1992-1993, the Government
sought financing for a new four-lane expressway between Yaounde and the new airport, while it lacked
the funds to maintain the road network. The port authority of Douala intends to build a new container
terminal equipped with expensive, sophisticated cranes, while the access channel to the port is
insufficiently dredged. To improve port access, the port authority envisages the construction of dikes
at a very high cost. In addition to these investments in the port of Douala, the Government is still
considering the construction of two deep-sea ports, which would undercut the investments in the port
of Douala. A 6 billion CFA dry-yard, purchased in 1988, is used well below its capacity because the
demand for ship repair is low, and the dry-yard is located in shallow waters which limit its operating
capacity. Finally, several investments in the transport sector were begun but not completed for lack of
financing, resulting in the loss of what had been executed.
40.    Although subject to lengthy discussions between the Bank and the Government, the PIP for the
transport sector is still far from being an effective programmning tool. The economic or financial
justification of projects is not provided. Data are not regularly updated and do not reflect actual
execution of projects. Reform in this area is expected to be implemented under the proposed SAC.
41.    Lack of Maintenance of Existing Infrastructure. During the past ten years, priority given to
investments has resulted in neglect of transport infrastructure maintenance.  In addition, several
weaknesses hamper maintenance:
(a)    Poor management. Procedures do not exist to establish consistent annual objectives
and monitor the performance of maintenance units. This results in inefficient use of
force account for routine and periodic road maintenance, and the maintenance of the
access channel to the port of Douala.
(b)    Weak institutions. The institutional framework has never encouraged accountability
within the institutions responsible for maintenance, nor from these institutions to the
Government, nor from the Government to infrastructure users.
(c)    Poor funding procedures. The local budget for road maintenance is insufficient, and,
with the State budget crisis, barely allows for payment of salaries to civil servants.
The port does not have a specific funding procedure for the maintenance of the channel
and gives priority to the payment of salaries.
(d)    Inadequate donor strategy.  Until recently, donor assistance focused on investments
rather than maintenance.
42.    Although ONPC's (National Port Authority) dredging crew has technical capacity, the current
institutional framework in which ONPC's dredging department operates, and the technical constraints
of its dredger, make it impossible for ONPC to satisfactorily perform such dredging. The dredging
performance has rapidly declined since 1988 when the contract with foreign expertise was terminated.
This contract provided for rehabilitation and maintenance of the 22 km long access channel through the
Wouri river, from the sea to the port of Douala. Heavy siltation of the Wouri river has reduced the
depth of the channel from -7.5 m after rehabilitation, to about -5.4 m at the end of 1992. Shipping
lines are forced to enter and depart with reduced loads, and to spend costly idle time at the quay or at
11



the channel entrance awaiting high tides. CAMSHIP's vessels depart with about 3,000 tons below load
capacity. In 1993 and 1994, following the dredger's overhaul and donor pressure, the channel depth
was increased to about -5.9 m, but is still well below the minimum of -6.5 m needed for satisfactory
port performance.
43.    The low productivity of road maintenance is caused by inefficient planning and management,
slow budgeting and payment procedures, non performing force account teams, defective equipment
and, for the past two years, a lack of financing. MINTP has insufficient knowledge of the status of the
road network or the actual cost of maintenance. The 3,700 km of paved road network is mostly in fair
condition because it is relatively recent and has been well maintained with German assistance until
1992, but is now beginning to deteriorate. The 22,000 km of earth road network is now mostly in
poor to very poor condition. The 25,000 km of rural road network, which has not been maintained for
several years because of lack of financing, is now in very poor condition, and will need to be
rehabilitated or rebuilt. During FY93, only some 6,000 km of the 51,000 km road network were
maintained, while maintenance almost ceased in FY94.  In 1990-1991, the availability rate of
equipment leased by MATGENIE to the Department of Highway Maintenance was only 56 percent.
The rate has since decreased because of MATGENIE's lack of maintenance of equipment.
44.    The weak fiscal situation and priority given by the Government to the payment of salaries and
to the service of the external debt are the reasons for the lack of financing for road maintenance. In
1993/1994, total government revenue amounted to US$650 million against US$1,245 million of
planned expenditure. Salaries and the service of the external debt accounted for US$1,000 million, 50
percent more than Government revenue.  Although the Government has acknowledged that road
maintenance is the second priority after salaries in the allocation of resources, it has been unable to
make the necessary resources available. In 1985/1986, about US$100 million, excluding salaries of
MINTP staff, were allocated from local and external resources to the road subsector for road
maintenance and rehabilitation. In 1991, this allocation was reduced to about US$27 million. That
year, the shortfall in the annual volume of maintenance works (i.e., the difference between road
maintenance expenditure necessary to maintain the entire network of 51,000 km and the amount
actually spent) was estimated at US$144 million. In 1992-1993, the actual amount spent for road
maintenance was about US$10 million. Salaries amounted to about US$7 million in 1993-1994. In
comparison, the fiscal revenues collected from the transport sector were estimated at US$130 million
in 1993-1994, about 20% of government revenue. US$60 million (46 percent) were collected from
taxes specific to the transport sector, of which US$53 million from taxation on petroleum products.
Detailed data on road maintenance budget and performance are presented in Schedule 13.
45.    Lack of Competitiveness.  The costs caused by weak port management, protection of the
national shipping line, together with the inadequate legal, fiscal, and regulatory framework, and poorly
maintained infrastructure, aggravate Cameroon's lack of competitiveness in transit transport, both
within the country, as well as to and from the neighboring hinterland (Chad and Central African
Republic-CAR). Before devaluation, the cost of road transport was high (about four times the cost in
Pakistan and twice the cost in France) and hindered the competitiveness of export products of the
Central African countries. The many cumbersome customs regulations to control evasion of customs
duties cause delays in transit. In spite of these regulations, about half of the customs revenues are lost
because of fraud and an inefficient bureaucracy. Financial transactions associated with clearing and
transiting import freight into and out of the region significantly increase the cost of transit transport.
Transaction costs paid by transit and transport operators to customs and police agents to ease transit
operations range between 6 percent and 29 percent of land transport for a 15-ton container in transit to
CAR and Chad. According to IMF data, the cost of regional non-factor services on imports in 1992-
12



1993 was 16 percent for Cameroon, 39 percent for Chad and 31 percent for the Central African
Republic.
46.    The main obstacles in the transit chain are summarized below:
(a)    Freight-forwarders charge 1.25 percent of the shipment's value to shippers to cover
posting a bond, although the actual cost of the bond charged by a bank is 0.25 percent
per quarter.
(b)    Premiums for transport insurance must be paid to local insurance companies which
have insufficient resources and competence to settle damages, and are also often paid to
foreign companies.
(c)    The signature of customs documents by the Minister of Finance is compulsory for
transit of "sensitive" goods (textiles, alcoholic beverages, goods produced in Cameroon
at higher than world market prices).
(d)    Customs escorts are compulsory for transit transport until the border, at the cost of the
importer, to ensure that goods exit Cameroon.
47.    Lack of security in the port of Douala also impedes Cameroon's competitiveness for transit
traffic and increases port transit costs. Port facilities and areas are openly accessible to non-authorized
persons, as check points are not efficiently manned. The presence of the administrative offices of
Customs in the center of the port generates uncontrolled traffic. Police do not effectively control the
port area. Pilferage is common during unloading of general merchandise, and containers selected by
Customs for inspection are often found vandalized thereafter. Although ONPC is legally empowered
to protect the port against theft and disorder, it shifts the responsibility to the Government. The port
handling companies have made their own private arrangements at additional costs for the goods.
III. Transport Sector Reforn Program
48.   The Government has developed an overall transport sector reform program to complete the
adjustment of the sector institutions and address the financial issues in the sector. This program has been
extensively discussed between the Government, IDA, and other donors. The program seeks to enable
the sector to resume its contribution to development instead of being a constraint to the country's
economic growth.  It is a phased program, aimed at improving mobilization and allocation of
resources, maintenance of transport infrastructure, and the overall efficiency of the sector.  These
objectives would be achieved through State divestiture from transport operations, increased
competition, more focused institutions, and an improved regulatory framework. The program is
described in paragraphs 49 to 69. Benefits expected from the program are described in para. 70.
Program  implementation and priorities are described in para. 71.  Some issues still require
Government decisions for their resolution. Such resolution is being pursued as part of the dialogue
between the Government and IDA covering the ongoing preparation of IDA projects in the transport
sector (see para. 76).
49.    Civil Aviation. The Government has agreed to privatize both the domestic and international air
transport operations in Cameroon. The agreed strategy consists of the winding-down of CAMAIR and
the creation of a new company for the provision of air services. One of the following options, or a
combination of both, would be used to transfer control and ownership of the new company to the
13



private sector: (a) capitalization of the new company by a group of private investors with full
management control; or (b) management contract with deferred privatization option as a mechanism to
improve the airline performance and generate private sector involvement.  There is a potential for
private provision of air services, both by national investors or in partnership with foreign carriers. In
1994, a national air carrier, which initially operated as subcontractor for CAMAIR, and a charter
company for local services were authorized to operate in Cameroon. South African Airways has also
hinted at possible cooperation. However, if the private sector were not interested in participating in the
ownership of the new company, the Government would divest the aviation related assets and auction
the traffic rights to domestic/regional air carriers.  The detailed strategy, the timetable for the
privatization of air services, and key financial data after privatization are presented in Schedule 14.
Benefits resulting from this privatization are presented in Schedule 17. Bidding for the selection of the
private strategic partner is expected to be launched before the end of 1995. Privatization is expected to
be completed within two years after the selection of the strategic partner.
50.    An outright liquidation of CAMAIR would be politically unacceptable.  The Government
attaches great importance to CAMAIR as the national flag carrier, not only because it services
domestic routes, but also because it puts Cameroon on the map regionally and internationally. The
Government also considers that Cameroon, a country with a population of 12 million, needs a domestic
air service. The Government recognizes that a solution needs to be found, which would be compatible
with political constraints, to stop subsidizing air services. IDA's position is that Cameroon is entitled
to an air service provided that it is efficient, not subsidized, and operates on market principles,
preferably with a majority of private shareholders.  Following the detailed studies carried out on
CAMAIR with PPF financing, the Government requested that concrete proposals be presented, which
resulted in the strategy mentioned above. The following options were also considered but rejected: (a)
elimination of budget support, which would be difficult to enforce because the Government is likely to
find ways of continuing to subsidize the company by using off-budget accounts, such as oil revenues,
or by cutting spending in vital sectors; and (b) execution of another performance contract, which was
unsuccessfully attempted under the SAL (1989).
51.   In order to increase the efficiency for the provision of air transport services in Cameroon, and
to promote private sector participation, the regulatory framework should be revised before completion
of privatization:
(a)    to deregulate the domestic passenger market, including the Yaound6-Douala route, to
open competition between domestic carriers;
(b)    to open the cargo market, both in the local and international segments, through more
flexibility in the use of charter flights to allow for competition and competitive rates;
(c)    to gradually adjust domestic fares, in line with market rates, through planned price
increases with the domestic carriers;
(d)    to use explicit and efficiency-driven subsidies in the case of social routes; and
(e)    to establish a jet-fuel price policy in line with international standards.
52.    Railway.  The Government has agreed to separate the ownership of the infrastructure and
railway operations by creating a new private company to commercially operate railway services for
freight through a concession agreement. The core shareholders of the new operating company would
14



be selected following international bidding procedures.  The Government has still to choose the
conditions of operations for passenger services from four options: (a) include the services in the
concession agreement as public service obligations; (b) contract an agreement with a private company
distinct from the concessionary company for freight; (c) replace rail passenger services by bus services
and contract a private company for the operation of these services; and (d) stop providing passenger
services while maintaining the roads accessing the villages along the railway track. Maintenance costs
are being estimated. The detailed strategy, the timetable for the privatization of railway operations,
key financial data after privatization and a preliminary risk analysis for both Government and private
investors are presented in Schedule 15. Benefits resulting from the privatization are presented in
Schedule 17.  Bidding for the selection of the private majority shareholder of the concessionary
company is expected to be launched before the end of 1995. A decision on passenger services has to
be taken before completing bidding documents.
53.   Revision of the regulatory framework is needed to accompany the privatization of railway
operations:
(a)   The transport component of the price structure for petroleum products should be
revised to promote competition between transport modes and encourage petroleum
companies to use the less expensive mode of transport.
(b)    The railway transit procedures should be improved. The reform will be implemented
as part of the UDEAC Transport Reform Program (see paras. 58-59).
54.    Urban Transport. The Government has agreed to liquidate SOTUC, the public urban bus
company and liberalize urban transport. A liquidator is being appointed, whose terms of reference
seek the completion of liquidation within sixth months, once the procedure has begun. On February
22, 1995, the General Assembly of shareholders officially announced SOTUC's liquidation, and
services were stopped.  Benefits to the Cameroonian economy resulting from the liquidation, are
presented in Schedule 17. The conditions of access to the industry, related to vehicle insurance,
vehicle certification, taxation of activity and vehicle safety are being revised accordingly. A consultant
has been selected to prepare the revised regulation which is expected to be implemented before July 1,
1995.
55.   Interurban Transport. The Government is studying simplification of the taxation system for
road transport, through the creation of a road tax collected by one institution only (thus replacing
several taxes collected at different stages, by several institutions), as well as a road user charge, clearly
identified in the price of petroleum products, to be used to finance road maintenance through a Road
Maintenance Fund (see paras. 63-64). The Ministry of Economy and Finance has not yet agreed to
such a simplification, or to the implementation arrangements, but has agreed to the principle of a Road
Maintenance Fund. Arrangements for the creation of the Fund are being studied in detail, and the
Fund is expected to be created before the next dry season in October 1995. A presidential dccree was
recently taken to remove illegal road controls by the administration (police, customs, etc.). MINT is
envisaging the creation of a committee which would follow up on the compliance with the decree to
prevent the reappearance of the controls. Toll roads were created in 1993, but revenues have been far
lower than expected because of fraud, estimated at 50 percent. A decision on their privatization or
removal will be taken as part of the simplification of the road taxation system. The existing weighing
bridges on the Douala-Yaounde road are being rehabilitated. They will be used in a first phase to
monitor truck overloading, and in a second phase to fine overloaded trucks. A pilot operation is being
prepared by MINTP.
15



56.    Maritime Transport.  The Government has agreed to privatize CAMSHIP, the national
shipping line, and to privatize or liquidate CAMTAINER, the national road carrier and freight
forwarder. The timetable for the privatization of both companies, and key financial data after
privatization are presented in Schedule 16.  Benefits to the Cameroonian economy resulting from the
privatization are presented in Schedule 17. Access to the maritime industry by Cameroonian shipping
lines was liberalized at the end of 1994. However, the Government is still reluctant to fully liberalize
maritime transport. The 1994 law suppresses CAMSHIP's monopoly, but maintains the application of
the Code of Conduct and the protection of Cameroonian shipping lines.  The decree defining the
modalities of application of the law has still to be prepared. As an immediate step of the liberalization
process, the manner in which the Code of Conduct is applied should be reviewed in order to comply
with the clauses of the Code. Accordingly, the quota system would be applied to the Liner Conference
traffic and no more to the entire Cameroonian maritime traffic.  Terms and conditions for freight
transport outside of the Liner Conference traffic, and currently contracted-out to CAMSHIP (clinker
and petroleum products), should also be reviewed to decide whether or not these contracts should be
abolished and retendered. Although the Government has not yet agreed to this step which reduces the
protection of the Cameroonian shipping lines, its implementation is required to set up an acceptable
regulatory framework in parallel to the privatization of CAMSHIP. Further steps in the liberalization
process should be coordinated at the regional level, as part of the Trade and Transport component of
the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP), which involves Sub-Saharan African
countries and most of the donors involved in transport in this area.  The Trade and Transport
component aims at establishing a new maritime transport policy for Sub-Saharan African countries.
The preparation of this new policy is still at the studies stage (Schedule 2). Studies are expected to be
completed, and recommendations discussed, during a regional seminar of SSATP countries and donors
in 1996.
57.    To be consistent with the sector policy, the role of CNCC, the Shippers' Council, will have to
be revised as part of the decree defining the application of the 1994 law on maritime transport. As a
first step, CNCC should control a posteriori the application of the Code of Conduct. Financing of
CNCC by a 0.3 percent surcharge on import/export by sea and waivers paid by shipping lines to
transport freight toward Africa should be stopped, and CNCC should be financed from the State's
budget. Further steps will be defined as part of the Trade and Transport SSATP component. The role
of CNCC was discussed by CNCC, public and private shippers, CAMSHIP, and the Cameroonian
Administration during a seminar, and during several meetings of a committee created to follow up on
recommendations made during this seminar. However, the committee's recommendations maintain the
current role of CNCC and financing means while adding the roles of economic observer of the
transport sector and strengthening the services to shippers.
58.    Transit Transport.  Within the Union of Central African States (UDEAC) framework, the
1989 Joint EU-World Bank initiative launched a transit transport facilitation program in the Central
Africa subregion. The obstacles to trade and facilitation prevalent throughout the UDEAC customs
were analyzed by the UDEAC countries during preparation of the transport component of the UDEAC
Regional Policy Reform Program (Report No. 11296-AFR dated April 30, 1993) in collaboration with
the EU and IDA. In joint workshops held in November 1991, and in March and December 1993, the
UDEAC countries agreed to a Program of Regional Reforms to improve transit conditions. National
Transit Committees were created in the six UDEAC countries to draw up plans to: (a) simplify
customs documents and devise a system of regional transit under customs bonds (TIPAC); (b) review
the criteria for establishing bonded customs centers; (c) redefine transit requirements for intermodal
transport (rail/road, rail/river) and containers; and (d) improve road transport conditions and
16



regulations (maintenance of international itineraries, trucking liabilities, vehicle inspection, and cost
recovery).
59.    The TIPAC mechanism is a procedure whereby goods travel duty free across the border under
customs bonds, accompanied by a bill of lading, with the liability for possible loss of customs duties
held by the transport operator. The Manual of Procedures for the TIPAC was adopted by the UDEAC
countries in March 1993. The mechanism is similar to the transit system in Europe (TIR), where this
liability is guaranteed and surveyed by the International Road Union (IRU). For the liability to be
credible to customs in UDEAC countries, the bill of lading and the transporter must be covered by a
regional insurance policy which would reimburse customs for lost duties should the transport operator
or the importer abuse the mechanism by evading import duties. The insurance policy would be funded
from the sale of vouchers attached to the bill of lading.  The regional insurance policy is being
designed and candidate institutions are being identified to manage the insurance policy. EU financing
is available to provide assistance for the implementation of the TIPAC starting mid-1995. TIPAC
implementation is expected to be completed two years after commencement of the assistance. An
action plan and a timetable are provided in Schedule 18.
60.    The policy measures to be implemented to complement the TIPAC system are the following:
(a)    streamline road transport regulations to harmonize national and UDEAC transport
regulations and vehicle standards; harmonize the structure of road user charges;
enforce control of truck overloading to prevent road deterioration;
(b)    seek legal registration of customs agents, forwarding agents, and international road
transporters, and agree to and enforce criteria underlying the approval of such
registration;
(c)    harmonize and liberalize freight insurance in UDEAC.
61.    As most of the obstacles to transit transport occur in Cameroon, the success of this program
depends to a large extent on the willingness of the Cameroonian authorities to take the necessary
measures. In addition to the measures to be taken at the regional level, the following measures had to
be taken by Cameroon:
(a)    Improve its custom declaration mechanism and the computerized procedures: An audit
of the computerized system was carried out in 1993, and proposed scenarios for its
rehabilitation. A second audit should start soon with PPF financing which should
provide elements for the decision on one of the scenarios and prepare for its
implementation. A comprehensive audit of the customs services will be carried out by
the French Ministry of Cooperation in March 1995, to define a plan for improving
customs' performance and efficiency.
(b)    Remove the requirements of domiciled invoices and import licenses in Chad and the
Central African Republic: The measure was taken in 1994.
(c)    Shorten the list of sensitive goods which require a customs clearance for transit: (on
going);
17



(d)    Limit road controls by the administration to those specified in the UDEAC legislation.
A presidential decree was taken in 1993 to apply the measure.
(e)    Remove requirements for customs escorts for transit goods through Cameroon. No
progress has been made.
62.    The physical component of the transport component of the UDEAC reform program consists
of: (a) rehabilitation and maintenance of international road itineraries to CAR and Chad, as agreed by
the UDEAC Steering Committee in June 1993; improvement of the customs facilities in Douala and at
border crossings with CAR and Chad; (c) rehabilitation of the computerized customs declaration
system  in Douala, and provision of a modern telecommunication system; and (d) provision of
international trucking facilities at Douala port.  The rehabilitation of the Cameroon-CAR  road
itinerary, which is part of component (a), and provision of a modern telecommunication system are
being executed with EU financing. Detailed engineering studies are underway.
63.    Road Maintenance. The Government has agreed to a new strategy for road maintenance to
improve its efficiency and its sustainability:
(a)    To adjust the road maintenance program to management and financing capacity: A
priority network of about 20,000 km has been identified based on: economic
importance (traffic flows); consistency of the network and needs for links between
urban centers and regions of agricultural production; communication between
administrative centers; and regional equity.
(b)    To  disengage  itself from  maintenance  execution:  Periodic  maintenance  and
rehabilitation of all paved roads, as well as periodic maintenance of earth roads, and
progressively routine maintenance of earth and paved roads would be contracted-out to
private contractors, including the local construction industry, small contractors, village
workers, and communities, using labor-intensive methods and local materials, where
possible.
(c)    To  improve planning  and  programming  capacity: A  pluri-annual maintenance
programming system is being established using as criteria the existing level of service
of the priority road network, and also climatological, geographical and geotechnical
parameters. The system is being defined under an IDA-financed study for earth roads,
and German-financed study for paved roads.
(d)    To focus MINTP's role on planning, programming and budgeting, supervising works
and controlling objectives: External audits of technical and financial performance and
procurement procedures would be carried out to ensure accountability.  MINTP
restructuring is being defined accordingly under a PPF-financed on-going study.
(e)    To encourage development of small and medium contractors by providing training in
technical and financial management; by creating a stable market; by defining policies to
eliminate present constraints to private sector participation; by revising procurement
regulations; and by establishing a rapid payment system because small contractors do
not have sufficient working capital to prefinance expenditures for works: The new
framework and procedures are being defined with PPF financing.
18



(f)    To ensure sustainability of road maintenance financing and transparency and
accountability in the use of funds. A Road Maintenance Fund would be used as a
mechanism to achieve these objectives. The mechanism is being defined under a PPF-
financed on-going study.
64.   The strategy is expected to be implemented before the 1995 dry season (period when road
maintenance works are carried out). Subject to approval by the Minister of Finance, the Government
intends to submit the creation of the Road Maintenance Fund to the National Assembly in June 1995,
during discussions on the FY96 budget. Implementation of the new strategy is being tested under EU
financing. A road maintenance program amounting to about US$26 million is being contracted out to
38 small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The bidding procedure is on going. SMEs which had been
preselected, received a training on procurement and management of road works. Lessons learned form
this project will be used to prepare the application of the new strategy on the entire priority network.
Caisse Franraise de Developpement also intends to contract-out a rural road maintenance program to
SMEs to start at the end of 1995.
65.   MATGENIE. The Government has agreed to retrench on its equipment rental activity. A
PPF-financed study is being revised to review the feasibility of splitting MATGENIE into four separate
entities, located in four different regions. This option would make it easier to progressively privatize
MATGENIE in accordance with the financial capacity of local investors. Both direct privatization
through sale of public participation in the entities, or privatization of management could be considered.
This option would also introduce an element of competition among the four entities. In addition, the
Government agreed to liberalize entry to the activity. The initial option recommended by the study
was to create a new company, the management of which would be privatized through a management
contract, and transform MATGENIE into a holding company. This option is being reviewed to
demonstrate its sustainability, which was unclear in the draft study.  Although liquidation of
MATGENIE and sale of the equipment was considered, the option was not retained as the road
maintenance organization and financing still need to be sustained before local investors can be expected
to invest in equipment rental, and supply the full equipment required for road maintenance. The new
set-up is expected to be implemented before the 1995 dry season and the start of the execution of the
road maintenance program.
66.   The number of items of equipment needed for the maintenance of the priority network is
estimated at 941. Depending on the capacity of private entrepreneurs to provide their own equipment,
the number of items of equipment to be provided by MATGENIE in the future ranges from 130 to
190.  The number of employees is estimated at 300, against 385 after the 1994 restructuring.
Currently, MATGENIE owns 734 items of equipment of which 33 percent are operational, 42 percent
need heavy repairs, and 25 percent should be scrapped.
67.   LABOGENIE.  A study is being carried out with EU financing to define the future legal
statute of LABOGENIE and the potential participation of private investors in the company. The study
will also review market conditions and propose a strategy to prevent the continuation of the current
monopoly by either a new private or public entity. A first breach was made in the monopoly when
LABOGENIE was authorized to participate in bids under EU-financed projects for the control of
works in association with only one of the consulting firms per short list.
68.   Port Activities. The Government is defining a new strategy for port operations. Two studies
are under preparation:
19



(a)    to define an efficient organization to ensure sustainable performance of dredging. In
particular, the study will consider the privatization of the activity.  The study is
expected to be completed in June 1995, and the recommendations implemented before
the end of 1995.
(b)   to restructure the port authority to reduce operating costs, and to revise tariffs on the
basis of the analytical accounting recently implemented: The study will provide
recommendations regarding contractual relationships with private port operators which
need to be revised to provide investment incentives, and to encourage their
commitment to the development of Cameroonian ports.   Recommendations are
expected to be implemented before March 1996.
The two studies, and the implementation of the recommendations, are critical to improve port
performance. A decision also needs to be taken as part of the restructuring process, regarding the type
of management of the new container terminal built with OECF financing. IDA's strategy is that no
investment should be carried out in the port sector before the decisions on the dredging organization,
the port restructuring, and the management of the container terminal are implemented.
69.   Institutions. As mentioned above, MINTP's role would be to program, manage and supervise
road maintenance works, most of which will be contracted to private contractors. MINTP would
become autonomous in procurement decisions on maintenance works below a certain amount to ensure
efficient management of small and medium-size contractors for road maintenance. A PPF-financed
study is being carried out to prepare MINTP's shift toward this new role. Restructuring is expected to
be implemented before the end of 1995. MINT would focus on sector strategy, policy formulation and
transport regulation.   A  French-financed study is underway to prepare MINT  restructuring
accordingly. The restructuring will be implemented to accompany the privatization of transport PEs.
70.    Benefits Expected for the Transport Sector Reform.
(a)    Privatization and liquidation of priority public enterprises: After privatization, CAMAIR,
REGIFERCAM, CAMSHIP and CAMTAINER are expected to generate profits due to a
more autonomous and commercially-oriented management, cost-cutting, and financial
restructuring resulting in greater competitiveness. Subsidies should be stopped resulting in
savings for the Treasury. In addition, after privatization, the enterprises will generate
fiscal revenues which they have not done for several years. Financial forecasts indicate
that accumulated savings for the Treasury three years after privatization/liquidation
compared to the without privatization/liquidation scenario, would amount to US$60
million, and would be equivalent to the additional cost bome by the State for the
restructuring (see Schedule 17).
(b)    Road maintenance: Focusing MLNTP on planning, programming and budgeting,
supervising works and controlling objectives, and privatizing road maintenance execution
would make the road organization more efficient.  Such reorganization, and revised
procurement procedures, payment and financing mechanisms would improve road
maintenance sustainability. The rate of return of the maintenance program for the priority
network is estimated at above 200 percent on paved roads, and around 100 percent on
earth roads.
20



(c)    Transit: The rehabilitation of the computerized customs declaration system in Douala
would improve customs revenues by reducing fraud.  The new procedures to be
implemented to accompany the rehabilitation would make the system more efficient, and
save time in the transit of goods through the port. Implementation of the transport
component of the UDEAC Program of Regional Reforms, including the TIPAC system,
would make transit procedures more efficient, and reduce the cost of non-factor services on
transit goods.
(d)    Port restructuring and rehabilitation: The objective of the restructuring is to reduce
ONPC's expenditures by about 30 percent. Tariffs would be adjusted accordingly.
Dredging reorganization would result in better efficiency and save waiting-time for the
ships entering the channel or leaving the port. Rehabilitation and maintenance of the
channel to a depth of 6.50 m would provide a 13 percent economic rate of return.
(e)    Regulatory framework: Progressive liberalization of maritime transport, simplification of
the road taxation system, revision of the transport component of the price structure for
petroleum products, as well as other measures mentioned above would result in a reduction
of transport costs and greater competitiveness of the country's economy. As an example,
in Cote d'Ivoire, liberalization of maritime transport for bananas cut prices of maritime
transport by half
71.   Implementation  of the Transport Sector Reform  Program.   The program  would be
implemented through a continuous process consisting of several phases defined in accordance with
priority issues and with the capacity of local resource mobilization. On the basis of the sector analysis,
the order of priority for the phases would be as follows:
(a)    Privatize/liquidate the transport sector PEs to reduce the drain on the State Treasury
caused by subsidies needed to cover their constant deficit.  Priority PEs to be
privatized or liquidated are the national airline, the railway company, the shipping line,
and the urban bus company because of the amount of subsidies that they need and/or
their inefficiency.  Revise the regulatory framework for air, maritime and urban
transport. Restructure MINT.
(b)    Improve the dredging of the access channel to the port of Douala and restructure the
port authority. Improve road maintenance management and execution. Restructure
MINTP. Improve the computerized customs information system and its environment.
(d)    Privatize MATGENIE and LABOGENIE. Implement further steps in the liberalization
process of maritime transport and revise the role of the Shippers' Council. Improve
transit transport facilitation. Privatize the dockyard.
(e)    Execute new investments.
Phase (a) would eliminate subsidies to PEs and free resources for subsequent financing of
infrastructure maintenance and investment.  Phase (b) would reduce the cost of transport for
international trade and increase Cameroon's competitiveness.   Phase (c) would strengthen the
sustainability of phases (a) and (b). Phase (d) would be implemented after sector restructuring is
completed. An implementation schedule is proposed in Schedule 19. It defines the steps to monitor
the progress in the implementation of the phases of the strategy which have been agreed by the
21



Government, in the preparation of other phases for which an agreement is still sought, and in the
implementation of recommendations established during the preparation phase.
IV. Lessons Learned and Strategy for IDA Assistance to the Transport Sector in Cameroon
72.    Structural Adjustment.  Experience in PE restructuring under the Structural Adjustment
Program (SAP) underlines the importance of state divestiture from PEs in commercial sectors, and
implementing a satisfactory institutional framework to ensure such divestiture. Performance contracts
used to restructure PEs under the SAP failed because of a lack of commitment from both Government
and PEs. Privatization and liquidation operations launched at the same time also failed for the same
reason, and because of an unsatisfactory institutional framework (see paras. 12-13).
73.    Projects in the Transport Sector. Over the past 20 years, the Bank Group has contributed to
transport sector development in Cameroon, with 13 projects totaling US$500 million equivalent.
Projects were mostly in the highway (75 percent of the amount lent), railway, and port subsectors.
Ten projects were audited after completion.  Five transport sector memoranda provided the sector
analysis to prepare the projects.
74.    Although the audit reports observed that the Bank's objectives for the sector had been
"consistent, sound and transparent, improving efficiency and strengthening self-financing operations",
it concluded that while, generally, all physically measurable targets were successfully met, no
comparable success was registered in the areas of financial performance, maintenance activities, and
institution building. The audits attributed the poor institutional and financial performance of the
transport sector to the Government's lack of commitment to genuine change and, more importantly, to
the lack of a coherent sector program.  The audits underlined that the Bank had advocated a
comprehenisive program, and that its absence had meant that individual subsector operations were
neither integrated nor additive. The 1989 audit of the Feeder Roads, Highway IV, and Railway
projects concluded that an overall sectoral approach was overdue, and recommended preparation of an
action progranm pursuing a coherent approach of sector investment planning and PE reform, and the
adoption of this program by Government and donors as a basis for integrated sector financing.
75.    Transport Sector Reform Program. The lessons learned from past experience have led to IDA
contributing to the preparation of a Transport Sector Reform Program, described in the chapter above,
which places transport sector development and investment in a policy-based, sectorwide framework
supported by Government and donors. The preparation of this program is a critical contribution to
Cameroon's efforts to restore the performance of its economy and competitiveness. The Government
and IDA have carried out joint economic and sector work to analyze issues in the transport sector in
order to devise action plans and priorities to restore sector efficiency (Transport Sector Memorandum,
dated June 30, 1993, Report No. 11430-CM). The process for sector analysis, and the preparation of
the Transport Sector Reform Program, aimed at internalizing the rationale for reform and
recommendations by broadly involving Government institutions and staff, private operators and
donors. To marshal the necessary understanding and political commitment needed to implement the
proposed reforms, a Transport Interministerial Group was created to represent all Government
organizations involved in the transport sector. Several seminars were organized to discuss with the
private sector the reform  in the road maintenance, port, transit and maritime subsectors.  The
Government also called several donor meetings to discuss sector issues and proposed action plans. The
outcomes of these discussions are being reflected in a draft declaration of sector policy being prepared
as part of the preparation of subsequent IDA projects in the transport sector.
22



76.   IDA's Assistance Strategy to the Transport Sector.  According to the priorities mentioned
above (para. 71), IDA would assist the Government in implementing phase (a) of the transport sector
reform program through the proposed Transport Sector Adjustment Credit (TSAC), scheduled for
FY96. As execution of the TSAC begins, IDA would participate with other donors in the Transport
Sector Project (TSP), scheduled for FY96 to assist the Government in implementing phases (b) and (c).
In addition to the support to the implementation of the elements of the transport sector reform included
in these two phases, TSP would support the execution of the road maintenance program, rehabilitation
of the access channel to the port of Douala, and rehabilitation of the computerized customs information
system. However, the content of the project needs to be reappraised to take into account the different
progress in the definition of the reform in phases (a) and (b) of the program. Reappraisal may result in
splitting TSP into subprojects to be implemented at different times.
V. Project Description
77.    Objectives. With the assistance of the proposed project, the Government intends to: (a) launch
the transport sector reform program which would result in the creation of a new private civil aviation
company, private operation of rail services, liquidation of the urban bus company, sale of public shares
in CAMSHIP and CAMTAINER, restructuring of MINT, and reform of the regulatory framework for
air, urban, and maritime transport; and (b) continue preparation of the sunsequent phases which would
result in: (i) restructuring of MINTP; execution by contract of most of the road maintenance work
program; and implementation of a pluri-annual programming system and a sustainable financing
mechanism  for road maintenance;  (ii) restructuring and down-sizing of the port authority;
implementation of an efficiency-driven organization for dredging; and (iii) improved customs
institutional framework, overhaul of customs computerized information system, and implementation of
a new international transit system. Expected results and timing for project activities, which will be
used as performance indicators for the project, are provided in Schedule 20.
78.    Launching the Transport Sector Reform Program. This component would include:
(a)    Preliminary analysis for the privatization of the airline, railway company, shipping
company and for the liquidation of the urban bus company (completed with PPF
financing).
(b)   Railroad: Preparation of a concession agreement for the operation of rail services. The
description of the main features of the concession agreement and terms of reference for
the consultant, who will prepare the concession agreement and assist the Government
in its implementation, are in project files.
(c)    Civil Aviation: Preparation of the privatization of the national airline.   The
privatization strategy and terms of reference of the Financial Advisor, who will prepare
the privatization and assist the Government in its implementation, are in project files.
(d)    Maritime Transport: Provision of financial and legal advisors for privatizing or
liquidating the national shipping line, and the national freight forwarder and road
transport company. Terms of reference of the financial advisor are in project files.
(e)    Urban Transport: (i) Provision of the services of a liquidator for the urban bus
company. The calendar of the liquidation, the terms of reference of the liquidator, of
the committee which will monitor the liquidation, and of the assistance to the
23



committee are available in the project file; (ii) Assistance to the privatization of urban
transport and review of the regulatory framework after liquidation of SOTUC,
including a seminar on urban transport institutions and liberalization.  Terms of
reference for both activities are in project files.
(f)    Financial audits of enterprises to be privatized and study of legal obligations of these
enterprises towards their creditors.
(g)    Transport Institutions: Review of the role and organization of MINT to strengthen its
planning, regulatory, and policy preparation capacity. Terms of reference of the study
are available in the project files. The study will be financed by Ministere Fran(ais de
la Cooperation (FAC).
(h)   Reform of the regulatory framework for urban, air and maritime transport, including a
study of regional logistic costs and seminars.
(i)    Strengthening of the unit in charge of overall privatization in the Ministry of Economy
and Finance.
79.    Preparing the Subsequent Phases of the Transport Sector Reform Program. This component
would include:
(a)    Road Maintenance: (i) Pluri-annual programming studies for earth roads and paved
roads maintenance. Terms of reference are available in the project files. The studies
have started under PPF financing for earth roads, and German cooperation financing
for paved roads. (ii) Preparation of a mitigation plan to address environmental issues
in road maintenance including a seminar. (iii) Preparation of the progressive State
retrenchment from road maintenance execution including privatization of MATGENIE
and LABOGENIE. A draft study is available in the project files for MATGENIE, and
is on going with EU financing for LABOGENIE. The project will provide legal and
financial advisors to prepare the implementation of recommendations. (iv) Review of
the role and organization of MINTP to focus on planning, programming, managing and
supervising road maintenance works. The study has started under PPF financing. (v)
Study of the creation of a Road Maintenance Fund. Terms of reference are available in
project files.  (vi) Support to the organization and financing of rural roads
maintenance. (vii) Implementation of a road data bank. (viii) Monitoring of bridges'
condition. (ix) Appointment of a local coordinator for road maintenance activities.
Terms of reference are in the project files. (x) Training in road maintenance
management (planning, budgeting, programming, procurement, works supervision).
(xi) Creation of a road documentation unit. (xii) Detailed engineering studies of a
priority road maintenance program
(b)    Port: (i) Assistance to the reorganization of operational and financial management. (ii)
Study of dredging reorganization. (iii) Analysis of dredging materials. (iv) Study of
the localization of the dry-dock. (v) Engineering design for the rehabilitation of the
dredger. Terms of reference for these studies are available in the project files. (vi)
Study to reduce transport costs at the port of Douala.
24



(c)    Transit Facilitation: (i) Support to improvement of the computerized system  for
customs declaration and relocation of the system. (ii) Assistance in setting up a TIPAC
customs duty guarantee system, including the provision of telecommunication
equipment, and study related to the insurance system. Terms of reference for activities
(i) are in the project files, and are being prepared for activity (ii).
(d)    Maritime  Transport: (i) Assistance  in  restructuring  of the  Shippers' Council.
Preliminary meetings were held in Cameroon to discuss the role of the Shippers'
Council with shippers. (ii) Preparation of maritime transport liberalization.
(e)    Road Transport: (i) Study for the harmonization and simplification of the road taxation
system. (ii) Plan of action for road safety. (iii) Continuation of the computerization of
vehicle certification started under the Sixth Highway Project (Loan No. 2584-CM,
closed on October 30, 1993). (iv) Pilot operation to monitor loads of trailers using
weigh bridges rehabilitated under the Sixth Highway Project.
(f)    Rail transport: (i) Feasibility study  of a program of railway track rehabilitation. (ii)
Feasibility study of the railway telecommunication program. (iii) Study on access roads
to the railway stations.
(g)    Local capacity building with a review of the capacity of local consultants in transport and
the establishment, within the Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit, of a training
program for young professionals in MINT and MINTP.
(h)    Project management, auditing and accounting.
(i)    Provision of assistance to the Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit. The unit
was established in 1992. It has diligently helped the Government prepare the reform
program as secretariat of the Interministerial Committee created in this respect. The
assistance will include short-term missions of experts, local staff under contract, office
equipment, and mission expenditures.
80.    Technical Assistance, Training and Seminars. The credit would finance 495 person-months
of consulting services for policy support, support to institutional development, institutional
development studies, and support to project preparation and implementation (Table 2) at a cost of about
US$8.7 million. Consulting services would consist of studies (286 person-months) and short-term
missions (209 person-months), including services purchased for assisting the Government to privatize
or liquidate PEs.
25



Table 2: Person-Months by Type of Technical Assistance and Subsector
Subsector                Support to    Institutional     Policy         Project         Total
Institutional    Development    Support     Implementation
Development      Studies                     and Preparation
Civil Aviation              40              13                                           53
Railway                     23                                             11            34
Urban Transport             16              3              4                             23
Road Transport                              1                             52             53
Maritime Transport          16                                                           16
Road Maintenance            21             21                             76             118
Ports                       10              5                              10            25
Transit and Facilitation                                   8              32             40
Sector Management           67              3              4              59             133
Total                       193            46              16             240           495
81.    Terms of reference of most project activities were agreed during negotiations.   When
appropriate, they will be revised to indicate that transfer of know-how is expected in the core output,
and evaluation of consultants by the counterparts, and of the counterparts by consultants should be
made. Performance of consultants will be reviewed to determine how assignments' objectives were
achieved and how well consultants were able to transfer skills and know-how to their counterparts, and
to strengthen the local agencies to which they were assigned.
82.    During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that counterparts would be
designated before the start of major consulting assignments, with qualifications and terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, and would remain in post until the completion of the activity. These counterparts
will be responsible for preparing seminars related to project activities and for presenting papers on the
c onclusions and recommendations of studies. Terms of reference will detail tasks to be carried out by
the counterpart staff as part of their training. Consultants' proposals should include the time necessary
to train counterparts during execution of studies, and the corresponding budget. This process has
already started under studies financed by PPF funds.
83.    The list of studies to be financed by the project was agreed at negotiations. It is provided in
Schedule 21. The list would be regularly reviewed and updated, if necessary in the course of Bank
supervision missions, and in light of studies' outcomes already known, and of developments in the
sector. Terms of reference of consulting activities will be included in the Project Implementation Plan.
84.    Two seminars would be held on environmental considerations in road maintenance and on
urban transport institutions and liberalization.  Training would be provided on road maintenance
management (planning, budgeting, programming, procurement and supervision of road maintenance
works). FAC will finance a training program to be defined on transport-related activities. EU will
finance training for administrative and private users of the regional guarantee system of customs duties.
Studies included in the project will define training needs to be included in the proposed TSP. The
guidelines for preparing training activities were agreed during negotiations. Draft guidelines are
provided in Schedule 22.
26



SECTION B: PROJECT COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION
I. Project Costs
85.   Total project costs, including price contingencies and taxes are estimated at US$23.9 million.
The costs, net of taxes and duties, are estimated at US$20.2 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$14.2 or 70 percent. The Government would bear the cost, estimated at US$3.7
million, of taxes and duties levied on consulting services and goods. The Government will also
finance the salary of the four civil servants working in the Transport Interministerial Coordination
Unit, estimated at US$ 16,000 per year, and provide offices for the unit. In the current budgetary
situation, where the Government is barely able to finance its civil servants, service the country's
external debt and allocate scarce remaining resources to priority maintenance, no other contribution to
the project would be requested from the Government. Detailed project costs are provided in Schedule
23. A summary breakdown of the project costs net of taxes is given below.
Table 1: Estimated Project Costs
Component                                                Total Costs
(US$ million)
1. Goods                                                        1.9
2. Consultants' Services and Studies
(a) Support to Institutional Development                    11.7
(b) Institutional Development Studies                        1.7
(c) Policy Support                                           0.6
(d) Project Implementation and Preparation                   5.6
3. Training and Seminars                                         1.8
4. Operating Costs                                              0.6
Total                                                          23.9
II. Procurement
Employment of Consultants
86.   In order to ensure the satisfactory execution of the project, the Borrower agreed during
negotiations that qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment of consultants
shall be satisfactory to IDA.  Such consultants will be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to IDA on the basis of the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, published by the Bank Group in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). Procurement procedures are indicated in Schedule 21. The model letter
of invitation issued by the Bank Group shall be used. For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower will employ such consultants under contracts, using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank Group, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
IDA. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank Group, the
Borrower will use other forms agreed with IDA prior to launching the bids.
85.   Following the recommendations of the Country Procurement Assessment Report issued in
April 1994, which concluded that procurement practices in Cameroon were inadequate, and to enable a
satisfactory procurement process, the following measures were agreed during negotiations:
27



(a)    Short-lists shall be a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 6 firms with no more than two
firms from the same country.
(b)    The practice of requesting bid and performance securities shall be discontinued.
(c)    Quality shall be the main criterion for the selection of consultants.
Procurement of Goods
87.   During negotiations, the following procedures were agreed. Goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$80,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$210,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, including: (i) bids are opened in public in the presence
of bidders or their representatives; (ii) there will be no negotiation with bidders between bid opening
and contract award; (iii) bid evaluation and post-qualification criteria will be defined in precise
quantitative and monetary terms; and (iv) award will be made to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder.
88.    Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions:
(a)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in May 1992
shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract, required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall be
furnished to IDA prior to the making of the first payment out of such Special Account
in respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract, together with
the other information required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph 3,
shall be furnished to IDA as part of the evidence to be furnished showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to contracts on
account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
89.   Modification of Waiver of the Terms and Conditions of Contracts. Before agreeing to any
material modification or waiver of the terms and conditions of a contract that would increase its cost by
more than 10 percent of the original price (10 percent would be specified for the purpose of para. 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Bank Group's Guidelines), the Borrower should specify the reasons thereof and seek
IDA's no objection for the proposed modification.
28



Procurement Times
90.    Procurement times for project activities up to contract signing were agreed during negotiations,
in particular all contracts must be signed within the original bid validity period.
III. Disbursements
91.    Schedule B details the amount to be disbursed from the credit per category. The percentage of
expenditures to be financed is 100 percent of the cost net of taxes and duties for consultants' services,
training and seminars, and operating costs, and 100 percent of the foreign expenditures and 75 percent
of the local expenditures for goods.
92.    To facilitate disbursements and to ensure that funds are available on time to finance the costs of
services to be provided under the project, the Government will establish a Special Account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Special Account will be managed by
the Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit. The authorized amount of the Special Account is
CFAF 130 million; requests for replenishing the account will be submitted to IDA monthly or at such
intervals as IDA shall specify.
93.    Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation, except for contracts of less
than US$50,000 for consultants and goods, for which certified statements of expenditure would be
used. These statements of expenditure will be subject to review by supervision missions and periodic
financial audits. The minimum application size for payments directly from the credit account will be
US$50,000.
IV. Accounting and Auditing
94.    Accounting.  The Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit will maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project. Accounting procedures are defined in a manual prepared by
the unit, to be part of the Project Implementation Plan (para. 98) and to be agreed by IDA. The
project includes financing for hiring a qualified accounting firm, acceptable to IDA, to establish a
computerized accounting system for the proposed TSP when required. Such system is not needed for
the present project because of the small number of contracts.
95.    Auditing. The signature of a three-year contract with the project auditors is a condition of
credit effectiveness. During negotiations, the Borrower agreed to:
(a)    have the records and accounts referred to in the preceding paragraph for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(b)    furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested;
(c)    furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request; and
29



(d)    without any limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) above, have the
records and accounts of the Special Account audited in accordance with paragraphs (a)
through (c) above: (i) every four months during the first twelve months after the
Effective Date; and (ii) every six months during the second twelve months after the
Effective Date; and furnish such audits to IDA at the latest within two months
following the end of the period audited.
96.    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 94, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(b)    retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(c)    enable IDA's representatives to examine such records; and
(d)    have the records and accounts of the statements of expenditure audited in accordance
with paragraph 95 above: and ensure that the report of such audits contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
the period preceding such audit, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
30



SECTION C: IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
I. Organization and Management
97.   The Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for the privatization/liquidation
component of the project. MINT and MINTP will be responsible in their subsectors for preparing
subsequent phases of the reform program including investments, in consultation with other interested
Government agencies. The existing Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit which helped the
Government prepare the reform program, will continue to assist MINT and MINTP, and will manage
the credit under supervision of MINEFI.
98.   A Project Implementation Plan will be prepared to help the project coordinator implement and
monitor the project. The plan would include all project procedures agreed with IDA, standard bidding
documents for consultants, the list of consulting services to be procured and the type of procurement,
detailed project costs, the terms of reference of the studies and support services to be carried out, and
standard forms for progress reports. An outline of the Project Implementation Plan was agreed during
negotiations, and the plan should be completed as a condition of credit effectiveness. Most terms of
reference for critical project activities other than PPF-financed activities, have been agreed by the
Government (i.e., financial advisors for the privatization of REGIFERCAM, CAMAIR, CAMSHIP
and CAMTAINER, liquidator of SOTUC, and port studies). Letters of invitation, including terms of
reference, and short-lists for these activities are being reviewed by IDA.
II. Implementation Schedule
99.   The implementation schedule of the project was agreed during negotiations. It is provided in
Schedule 24. It was prepared on the assumption that the credit would become effective in May 1995.
The project would be executed over a 30-month period, and the credit would be closed by June 30,
1998.
III. Reporting and Monitoring
100.  The content and timing of progress reports were agreed during negotiations. A standard form
of progress report was prepared during appraisal and is available in project files. The final form
would be included in the Project Implementation Plan. Progress reports would be prepared quarterly
and in advance of each Bank supervision mission. The reports would review progress on financial
execution and studies. The Borrower would submit an Implementation Completion Report to IDA no
later than six months after the closing date of the credit.
31



IV. Supervision Plan
101.  Bank staff input into the supervision of the project would take the following form:
(a)    Portfolio management. Procurement documents, terms of reference and reports
(progress, final, studies, financial statements) would be reviewed at Bank headquarters.
(b)    Field supervision. Missions would review the progress of technical assistance and
studies in the three broad project areas of policy support, institutional development,
and project preparation and implementation. Missions would monitor the impact of
project activities and discuss action plans for implementing study recommendations.
102.  A supervision plan for the 1995-1998 Bank fiscal years is proposed in Schedule 25.
V. Mid-term Review
103.   Not later than November 30, 1996, the project coordinator in the Transport Interministerial
Coordination Unit should prepare and hold a mid-term review of the project execution. The review
would be organized in collaboration with the Administration, public enterprises, IDA's supervision
mission, and representatives of donor agencies involved in the transport sector. The review process
would include progress in meeting project's objectives, overall project performance against established
and agreed key performance indicators, implementation of study recommendations, and performance of
consultants under the Project. The mid-term review would provide the opportunity for IDA to assess
the Government's continued commitment to the project's objectives and the reform in the transport
sector. During negotiations, the Borrower agreed to the carrying-out of a mid-term review and to its
objectives.
32



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 1: Central Government Operations and Other Macro-Economic Data
1985    1989    1990    1991    1992
Indices 1985=100
GDP (real)                                100.0    96.6    89.6    84.2    79.3
GDY (real)/capita                         100.0    61.5    54.9    53.8    45.4
Petroleum export value (CFA)              100.0    32.2    38.6    44.4    34.8
Real Effective Exchange Rate              100.0   142.9   154.5   151.9   162.9
Terms of Trade                            100.0    42.5    40.3    44.4    38.0
In Percent of GDP
Gross Domestic Investment                  24.9    16.5    14.7    12.6    10.7
Gross Domestic Savings                     35.9    14.7    12.4    12.8       9.9
Government revenues                                 16.9    14.5    16.1    17.2
Overall Budget Deficit                     -3.4    -5.0    -8.6    -9.5    -6.9
Total Outstanding Debt (includ. arrears)    29.0    41.5    46.7    51.9    60.0
..................... ................................ ..... ... .... .. . .................... .......I.................   .........................................................................................................
In Percent of Exports
Debt Service Due                           22.9    33.8    31.7    19.5    38.0
Calendar years refer to preceding fiscal year, e.g., 1985 = July 1, 1984 - June 30, 1985.
33



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 2: Maritime Transport Regulation and Development
in sub-Saharan African Countries'
Maritime Transport Regulation
1.    The creation of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in
1964 resulted in the sensitization of developing maritime nations (DMNs) to the impact on their
economic development of foreign dominance in their shipping trade. In 1974, DMNs succeeded
in persuading the United Nations General Assembly to adopt the United Nations Convention on a
Code of Conduct for Liner Conferences which was ratified and entered into force in 1983.
2.    The shipping policies adopted by most West and Central African countries are essentially
characterized by cargo reservation and flag discrimination. Typically, the policies empowered
these nations to ensure that liner conference cargo was shared on a 40-40-20 basis, i.e., 40
percent being transported by national shipping lines, 40 percent by shipping lines of the partner
countries, and 20 percent by outsiders. Although the Code of Conduct does not cover bulk and
non-conference cargo, most African countries apply the Code to such cargoes as well. Nigeria,
for example, reserves 50 percent of both liquid and dry bulk cargo and all non-conference cargo
to and from the country for Nigerian shipping lines. Other "flag-discrimination practices" include
the reservation of specific commodities (e.g., cocoa, cotton, bauxite) for national carriers. Other
countries have tried to exclude certain flags from their entire shipping trade.
3.    Indirect controls were implemented, which were detrimental to foreign shipping lines and
subsidized the operation of national carriers until such a time as they would be capable of
competing with foreign shipping lines on their own. These controls included currency regulations,
insistence on selling on C.I.F (Cost, Insurance, Freight) and buying on F.O.B. (Free on Board)
basis, the creation of freight bureaus to enforce the cargo sharing formula, the use of slot-charter
arrangements, discriminatory freight taxes, import license controls, and preshipment inspection.
4.    Shippers' councils were entrusted with the enforcement of the cargo sharing regulation.
They were given conflicting missions: (a) to encourage the development of national shipping lines,
one instrument being tariffs' increase; and (b) to protect the interests of shippers by assisting them
in their dealings with shipowners and by participating in freight rates negotiations to resist the
continuous increase practiced by shipping conferences in the early 1970s.
5.    These policies have failed to develop African shipping lines. Most of the companies have
gone bankrupt and have disappeared, or sold their traffic rights to the foreign shipping lines, for
whose replacement they were created. The profits from such sales range from between 10 to 20
percent of the freight value. The only shipping lines that continue to operate their own vessels or
charter vessels are in Nigeria, C6te d'Ivoire, Ghana, Cameroon and Togo. Reasons for failure are
Source: Shipping Services In West and Central African Countries. An SSA TP Working Paper. Okechukwu C. Iheduru,
dated June 1, 1994
34



poor productivity, high operating costs, overstaffing, weak management, and interference from
the State.
Recent Development
6.    The structure and organization of the shipping trade in West and Central Africa are
changing from near-control by maritime conferences for more than 75 years to their near
disappearance, the development of independent shipping lines and the concentration of the
industry in maritime consortia. Conferences started to dismantle in 1992 when two major
European shipping lines withdrew membership following fines imposed on them by the European
Community for allegedly engaging in price-fixing and unfair trading practices. Independent lines
developed because they were able to adapt quickly to the changing technology while conference
shipping lines had to rationalize their services. Following their withdrawal from conferences,
shipping lines embarked in a merging program which is resulting in the creation of three major
consortia operating in West and Central Africa.
7.    European Union. The maritime legislation in West Africa has been the object of
substantial criticism by the European Union (EU). This is because effective implementation of the
Liner Code requires bilateral agreements to ensure that the shipping companies of the importing
and exporting countries obtain their 40 percent share. The EU considers that such bilateral
agreements result into unequal treatment between EU shipping lines. For example, a Belgian
conference member would only be able to compete for 20 percent of the traffic between France
and C6te d'Ivoire , which is not allowed under the Treaty of Rome. Consequently, in 1986, the
EU issued a Regulation calling on Member States to annul their bilateral agreements, which were
to be replaced, if at all, by agreements granting shipping lines of all Member States to compete
for the 40 percent of traffic to which they each lay claim under the Liner Code of Conduct (so-
called 'bommunitarisation" of traffic rights). In addition, in 1991, the EU issued heavy fines
against a number of European Lines for having participated in restrictive practices in their West
Africa -- Europe trade. As a result, these lines have now left the conference.
8.    Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program. Maritime transport regulation and
development were discussed during a Round Table organized in Cotonou (Benin) in 1992. The
Round Table was attended by almost all West and Central African countries, donors and the
major shipping lines. It recommended that six studies be carried out. These studies are expected
to be completed in 1995 under the umbrella of the Trade and Transport component of the Sub-
Saharan  Africa Transport Policy  Program  (SSATP), coordinated  by  a committee  of
representatives of the main financing agencies, the Economic Commission for Africa (United
Nations) and the World Bank:
(a)   New Maritime Transport Policy: This study aims at establishing a new policy to
facilitate structural and technological change in maritime transport in the sub-
region, taking into account the statutory obstacles to the establishment of a
regional framework enabling economic operators to contribute to the development
of transport services in the sub-region as a whole, and improve interstate
cooperation.  The study will also include an analysis of the restriction on
35



investments in the transport chain, and propose a framework to facilitate
investments and joint-ventures at the regional level.
(b)    Audit of the Ministerial Conference of the West and Central African States on
Shipping: This study will evaluate the organization and its objectives, as well as
capabilities of the sub-regional agencies responsible for inter-state cooperation in
the area of maritime transport and ports in West and Central Africa.
(c)    Comparison of the Costs of International Chains of Transport: The study will
analyze the impact of the costs of the transport chains on the competitiveness of
principal export products of the region.
(d)   Maritime Transport Data Bank/Transport Monitoring System: The objective is to
develop such a bank/system at the national and sub-regional levels.
(e)    Redefinition of the Role of Shippers' Councils: This study will assess the missions
of the shippers' councils, with a view to improving their services to users, including
an analysis of constraints and options.
(f)    National Shipping Lines: This study will assess, within a regional framework,
national shipping lines, and draft options for their viability.
(g)   Transport Facilitation Plans: This study will examine the status of transport
facilitation and prepare plans of action in coordination with UNCTAD's sub-
regional programs.
(h)    Human Resource Management: This study will define measures and provide
training to strengthen human resource management as well as basic education to
facilitate adaptation of personnel to the changing maritime environment.
9.    Maritime transport in Cote d'Ivoire and Senegal. In the context of recent Bank
adjustment operations, Cote d'Ivoire and Senegal have undertaken reforms of their maritime
transport legislation to bring it more into line with the UNCTAD Code of Conduct of which they
are signatories. In both countries, as of March 1, cargo sharing will be applied only to companies
that are members of conferences in accordance with the dispositions of the Code. Hence,
outsiders -- that is companies that are not conference members -- will be able to load import and
export cargoes without prior authorization of shippers' councils.
10.   At the same time, restrictions with respect to bulk transport are also being liberalized.
Restrictive legislation has been a problem in Cote d'Ivoire where SITRAM, the state-owned
shipping company, has had an exclusivity with regard to certain categories of bulk and
refrigerated traffic, notably bananas, pineapples, wheat, etc. This exclusivity has now been
reduced to 50 percent, as a first step towards full liberalization.
36



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 3: Importance of Transport Sector Public Enterprises
in the Overall Public Enterprise Sector
Table 1: Revenues and Subsidies (CFAF million)
scctwWLIM1990M                                                                          i90-i2
bsak   &tfd         a              ba1c              alkr             b*skR_             _
Agr iay        5K966   -2V        7,471  -1Z805   59),      -17,11     L517   -15,699   346    -16477   7,114   -9,
Wifies         91,77    10,368        0    10,368  ,9203    10,            o   lq 1     ,81  915  5,482     c    5,482
T4q=          104,594   -27,99    54,969   26,971  10Q,214   43,69    AO     -1465   91,71    -36186  42,34 , 4
CMR            33,5M   -1Z0       0,621   3845   34,295   -2,1        15,48    -5,6(           -2Q3,s s  38,719   14,
CGAP           20,044     -715        o     -715   17,78    -1,62              -1,6    1654    -1, L      --    -L
CWsAM     P         8 99J   19 _                    1,210      -25               -25
CNC              1618     -351        0     -351    1,612     -3          o      -3112
(Nc               622     -202        o     -2m     l,Z        10         o      103    1536       62 (_             62
PRBFBCM    24,367    -9,56    2897    4659    ,649   -14137   1L,01           -3,17  2L171   -4,343    246    -1,881
9311C           3,817    -4,49      300   -3,9A     3,80    4,693        o3  Z4,63   2 46       4,399 __         -3,6
GNC             12,85     2,932       o    2,932   ,z4         364               364  12,34         89   _
LAaI   E        2,304    -1,855     951     -       2,555     -55               - 18    492       -26      43'      171
|MIkENE         4,434    -1,740       O    -L,      4234    -1,691            -1,&1  26S    -1,73             -L793
RIPi0x         105,293    17,566      0   17,566   93,733    18,653       0    18,653    6      13,CQ       C   13,C
cam             12,755   -23,a4       0     -6234   107,=    -18,C3    85,153   67,119   3,92 -1            9'     -103
ITct           37Z6&5   496    6,410   18,   45ZX    -49,99   113,532           3,27  333,      -343    49,551   15, L12
Source: Committee for the restructuring of public enterprises and public cnterprises fumancial statements.
Table 2: Public Enterprises' Domestic Debt
Creditor                          Total PE Debt                      Transport PE Debt
Governnent (general)                                 109.5                                       38.2
Govermnent (onlent loans)                            118.3                                         6.6
Other PEs                                             27.3                                         2.8
Private suppliers                                     19.6                                        18.3
Social Security System                                79.0                                       31.4
State Debt Recovery Agency                            75.3
Banks                                                 62.4                                        24.4
Insurance                                              9.6
Total                                               501.0                                       121.7
37



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 4: CAMAIR - A Company Profile
The Company
I.    Cameroon Airlines (CAMAIR) is a corporation (Socitet Anonyme). Its main stockholder is the
Cameroon Government (75%). The remainder being owned by Air France. It has a capital of CFAF 5.250
million (US$9.5 million), although its negative net worth is around CFAF 11,000 million (US$20 million). In
1993, it was operating four aircraft (one 747-200 Combi, and three 737-200), with a staff of about 1,600
employees. It carried about 350,000 passengers, half of them on its domestic network, and generated a
turnover of about CFAF 32,542 million (US$59 million).
Current Situation
2.     Since its inception in 1971, when Cameroon left Air Afrique, CAMAIR has continuously generated
losses. Inadequate structure, along with a very thin market have been the major reasons (inadequate fleet,
insufficient capital, overstaffing of up to 2,150 employees, etc.), but significant management errors and
Government interference have also heavily contributed to its poor performance. A few actions have been
taken but have remained insufficient to remedy the situation. The attempted restructuring of the airline in
1990 through a Performance Contract under the SAL had very limited success. In fact, in depth structural
actions have not been taken while the airline still faces Government interference within its day-to-day
operations. As a consequence, the airline permanently shows annual losses of about 20% of its tumover,
while it is still over-staffed by 50%, and while its situation may even further deteriorate after the CFAF
devaluation. Furthermore, the airline will soon have to replace its aging fleet (principally, its two 737s which
are 22 years-old, the other 737 having been acquired in 1985, and the 747 in 1981).
38



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 4: CAMAIR - A Company Profile
Table 1: Key Financial Data
Exchange Rate: US$1 = CFAF550 (post-devaluation rate)
RESULTS                     1991/92         1992/93         1991/92        1992/93
(in million CFAF)               (in million USS)
1. Revenues                           29784            32452            54.2           59.0
of which:
Passengers (million FCFA)           26 670           25 456           48.5            46.3
Long-haul                          16 863          15 517           30.7            28.2
Africa                              5 903           6 203           10.7            11.3
Local                               3 904           3 736            7.1             6.8
2. Net Result                        -15 878           -6 310          (28.9)          (11.5)
3. Subsidies                          30 607             256            55.6             0.5
4. Net profit after subsidies         14 729           -6 054           26.8           (11.0)
BALANCE SHEET                                 1991/92        1992/93       1991/92      1992/93
(in million CFAF)           (in million USS)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                                 14 759        11 627         26.8          21.1
of whichaircraft      10348          7421          18.8         13.5
Current Assets                               12 842        16 026         23.3          29.1
of which administrative debt    10 348         7 421         18.8           13.5
Total Assets      27 601        27 653         50.2          50.3
LIABILITIES
Short-term Liabilities                       24 972        33 078         45.4         60.1
Long-term Debt                                6 003         5 553         10.9          10.1
Total Liabilitics     30 975        38 631         56.3          70.2
Capital Stock                                 5 250         5 250          9.5           9.5
Rescrves & Provisions                         6 854         5 315         12.5           9.7
Retained Earnings                           (30 207)      (15 478)       (54.9)        (28.1)
Net Profit (or loss)                         14 729        (6 065)        26.8         (1 1.0)
Total Net Worth       (3 374)       (10 978)        (6.1)       (20.0)
39



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT FOR THE PREPARATION OF TRANSPORT SECTOR REFORM
Schedule 4: CAMAIR Main Terms of the Operating Contract
Composition of the Managing Board
1.    To be composed exclusively of company executives nominated by the Operator.
Autonomy of the Managing Board
2.    Managing Board to have full autonomy to take all decisions to manage the company in accordance
with the policy and objectives approved by the Supervisory Board. In particular, Managing Board to have the
right, in conformity with the corporate law, to:
(a)    Dismiss personnel;
(b)    Take disciplinary measures and exercise all recourse of the law, including court action, to
sanction acts of fraud or professional misconduct;
(c)    Close flight routes;
(d)    Ground airplanes.
3.    Government to undertake to abide strictly by the terms of the law and the company statutes in its
relationship with the enterprise, and to abstain from interfering, either through the Supervisory Board, or
directly through members of the personnel, in the management or operations of the airline.
Objectives of the Operating Contract
4.    Create the conditions to privatize the company, possibly at the end of Year-2 of the Management
Contract, or, if such a privatization is not possible, prepare a liquidation. Present a detailed action plan at the
end of Year I to either privatize or liquidate. Implement the plan in order to complete privatization or
liquidation by the end of Year 2.
5.    Achieve the performance criteria to be set in terms of financial results (including cash flow and gross
margin on sales) and productivity (such as ratio of number of passenger-miles to number of personnel).
Remuneration of the Operating Company
6.    To consist of a fixed part and a variable part which will be based on the achievement of the operating
objectives.
40



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 5: REGIFERCAM - A Company Profile
The Company
1.    Institutional and Economic Framework.  REGIFERCAM  is a public corporation functioning
under special Government regulations last modified in 1991. Rail infrastructure is owned by the State, but
REGIFERCAM is responsible for maintenance and renewal. Regulations specify that REGIFERCAM
operates on a commercial basis, in active competition with other modes of transport, and freely determines
configuration and tariffs. Deficits caused by passenger rail services operated under a Public Service
Obligation (PSO) are compensated by Government.  Goods transportation accounts for 70%  of
REGIFERCAMs revenue, where rail transportation maintains a competitive advantage over road
transportation for petroleum products, containers, cereals, and part of the traffic of land-locked Chad.
Passenger rail service is not competitive with road transport, which uses more economical, high capacity
intercity buses.
2.    Rail Facilities and Equipment. Two railway lines exist, of which a single-track line of 913 km
from Douala to Ngaounder&, which is active for both passenger and freight traffic, and a line of 160 km
from Douala to Nkongsamba, which is marginal. Rolling stock is adequate, although there is a backlog of
maintenance. The track is generally in good condition, but the telecommunications system is inadequate
and needs updating.
3.    Management. The technical and operation management of REGIFERCAM is quite satisfactory;
financial management is weak. REGIFERCAM has signed a Performance Contract wvith the Government
for the FY89-FY93 period. Traffic forecasts on which the contract was based did not materialize, mainly
due to the depressed macroeconomic situation. Financial objectives of the contract were not reached. A
staff rationalization program was includcd in the contract, and has been fully implemented. Total staff was
reduced from 6350 in 1989, to 3800 at present, but the ratio of staff costs to revenue (44%) is still too
high, and the staff should be brought down to about 3000, about 35% of revenue.
Recommended Action
4.    Restructuring. The current Performance Contract of REGIFERCAM  has not resulted in the
expected efficiently gains, as costs have not been controlled adequately allowing the wage bill to remain
high while revenue declined. REGIFERCAM should therefore be restructured along the following lines:
rail transport services would be managed and operated by a private operator, through a concession
agreement. The concession agreement would allow the private operator full freedom to determine service
configuration and tariffs, lower operating costs, maintain equipment and infrastructure and use its own
procurement methods. REGIFERCAM would be transformed in a holding company and own all
infrastructure, part of the rolling stock, which would be leased to the operating company at market rates.
REGIFERCAM would charge a flat fee to the private operator for the right to operate the transport
services. REGIFERCAM would continue to service existing debts and arrears, and proceed with staff
reductions with the exception of those retained by the private operator.
41



Table 1: REGIFERCAM (USS million) as of June 30, 1993 (unaudited) and 1992
1993           1992
Source of Funds                            (22.9)           (22.4)
Capital and Reserves                        62.3             65.6
Fixed asset Revaluation                    134.7            138.9
Total net worth                         174.1           182.1
Long-term debts
- Donors                                 43.6            39.5
- Banks                                  18.6             18.4
Total long-term debt                        62.2             57.9
Arrears on long-term debts
- Donors                                  5.6             5.6
- Banks                                   8.5            10.3
Other (Social security, etc.)               11.8             13.6
Total arrears                               25.9             29.5
Total Net Worth and Liabilities            262.1            269.4
Application of Funds
Infrastructure and Superstructure          260.5            267.0
Other                                        2.3              2.8
Total Assets                               262.8            269.8
Working Capital                              (0.7)           (0.4)
5.     REGIFERCAM's capital is seriously depleted, and the company relies entirely for its long term
financing on borrowings, subsidies, arrears on long-term debt, banks and creditors. Working capital is in
chronic deficit, and the situation is deteriorating. Currently, REGIFERCAM does not have access to new
sources of capital, whether public or private.
Table 2: Income Statement - June 1993 (unaudited) and 1992
Revenue                                     34.1             39.2
Salaries                                    15.2             17.7
Finance charges                              3.7              3.9
Other                                       11.0             12.8
Total operating costs                       29.9             34.4
Cash flow from operations                    4.3              4.8
Depreciation                                14.5             15.8
Nct loss on operations                     (10.2)           (11.0)
6.     REGIFERCAM's cash-flow for 1993 was barely sufficient to cover operational costs, but did not
cover depreciation and debt servicing. In spite of an adequate regulatory frarnework, revenue has been
dcclining because of competition from the road sector and the downturn of the economy in Cameroon.
Production costs are high due to the high wage bill (44% of revenue), and debt servicing (1 I% of revenue).
42



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 6: SOTUC - A Company Profile
The Company
1.    SOTUC is a mixed ownership (Societe d'Economie Mixte) company: 55% is owned by the
government, with Renault Whicules Industriels (RVI), a wholly owned subsidiary of Renault of France,
(21 % of the shares), and the two cities of Yaounde and Douala (12% each) being the other shareholders.
The company employs 1,050 people and operates a total fleet of 190 buses in Yaounde and Douala.
Current Situation
2.    The company isfinancially bankrupt. 1992/93, the company made a loss of CFAF 3,962 million
(US$7.2 million at post-devaluation exchange rates) on revenues of CFAF 2,296 million. At the end of
FY1992/93, its negative net worth was CFAF 30,904 million (US$55.8 million) against a balance sheet
total of CFAF 6,774 million. CFAF 22,363 million (US$40.7 million) of debt are in arrears, including
debt to the local commercial banks and payments to CNPS, the state pension fund, which has sued the
company for recovery of its claims. The personnel has not been paid since January 1993. The company
has operated without any liability insurance since 1988, being unable to pay insurance premiums.
3.    Its role as provider of a public service has eroded in the face of increasing competition from
private taxis. The number of passengers transported has declined from 152,000 in 1986, to 44,000 in
1991. The market share of the company is now estimated at less than 5%, as 35 to 40% of the urban
population walk to work.
4.    Since 1989, successive restructuring plans have failed. Various measures were taken as part of
those plans, including personnel reduction, tariff reforms, acquisition of new equipment, signing of
performance contracts, restructuring of the debt, involvement of a technical consultant in the management.
In spite of all these measures, the company has continued to generate substantial losses and to be
increasingly short of cash.
5.     The company has no cash to pay for the maintenance of its equipment. It is estimated that it
performs only 10% of what would be required for normal maintenance. Buses that break down can not be
repaired and are "cannibalized" to supply spare parts to the buses which still run. At the current rate of
depletion of the bus fleet, it is estimated that the company will have to cease operations in 3 years for lack
of equipment.
Recommended Action
6.    The immediate liquidation of the enterprise is the only viable solution. An outright privatization
of the company is unrealistic as most bus routes cannot be run profitably with the type of equipment now
being used. On the basis of a thorough analysis of the situation and market by Bank consultants, it is
recommended to grant concessions to private operators for the most profitable bus routes, sell some of the
buses to them through competitive bidding, and sell the remaining buses through intemational bidding to
potential private or public buyers in the region. The concession for other bus routes for which the buses
are not suitable should be granted to private operators who will then use minibuses. A traffic plan study to
confirm urban transport demand will also be carried out.
43



Table 1: SOTUC - Key Financial Data
1993
Millions of currency unit                   CFAF                   US$
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                  3,100                    5.6
Accumulated losses                     (34,004)                  (61.8)
Total Net Worth                            (30,904)                 (56.2)
Provision for Future Losses                   578                     1.1
Long-Term Debt
Donors                                  11,296                   20.5
Long-Terrn Debt in Arrears               5,827                    10.6
Total Long-Termn Debt                       17,123                   31.1
Short-Term Liabilities
Bank Overdraft                           4,040                    7.3
CNPS                                     3,480                    6.3
Personnel                                  879                     1.6
Tax Arrears                              4,445                     8.1
Suppliers Moratorium                     3,475                    6.3
Other Suppliers                          1,599                    2.9
Other Current Liabilities                2,059                    3.7
Total Short-Term Liabilities                19,977                   36.3
Total Liabilities and Net Worth              6,774                   12.3
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Buses                                    3,244                    5.9
Accounts Receivable                      1,991                     3.6
Unpaid Capital                           1,271                    2.3
Other Assets                               268                    0.5
Total Assets                                 6,774                   12.3
INCOME STATEMENT
Revenues                                     2,296                    4.2
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                1,825                    3.3
Finance Charges                          1,444                    2.6
Other Costs                                833                     1.5
Total Operating Expenses                     4,102                    7.5
Cash-Flow from Operations
Allowance for Depreciation               2,163                    3.9
Reintegration of Provisions                 (7)                   0.0
Net Loss                                    (3,962)                  (7.2)
44



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 7: CAMSHIP - A Company Profile
Table 1: FY92 Balance Sheet (CFAF '000)
Assets                                 Liabilities
Fixed Assets                  11,340   Total Equities                 1,778
- Vessels                      7,750   - Equity                       6,136
Current Assets                11,267   - Accrued Results            (4,494)
Non-current Liabilities       14,765
- Long-term debt               6,885
- Arrears                      6,233
Current Liabilities            6,064
Total Assets                  22,607   Total Liabilities             22,607
45



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 8: CAMTAINER - A Company Profile
FY94 Income Statement (CFAF million)
Revenues
Transportation                              435
Transit                                     617
Other                                       227
Total                                      1,279
Expenses
Materials and supplies consumed             347
Transport consumed                          13
Other services consumed                     336
Other charges                               832
Payroll expenses                            265
Taxes                                       28
Interest                                    110
Depreciation                                179
Provisions                                  242
Total                                      2,352
Profit/Loss before tax                    (1,073)
Tax                                          11
Net Profit/loss                           (1,084)
46



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 9: ONPC. A Company Profile
Table 1: 1992-1993 Balance Sheet (CFAF million)
Assets                          Liabilities
Current Assets     6,643        Current Liabilities     12,148
Non-current Assets   64,547     Non-current Liabilities    19,832
- Long-term Debt     13,727
Total Equities         39,210
- Equipment Subsidy   19,657
Total Assets       71,190       Total Liabilities       71,190
Table 2: Income Statement (CFAF million)
1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92   1992/93   1993/94
Revenuesfromportactivities         11664       11831       12811      12731      12089      13,063     16,728
Other revenues                         65         93           47        233        251         86        378
Total revenues                     11 729      11 924      12 858     12 964     12 340    13,149      17,106
Goods and materials                  1295       1180        1 326      1 397      1 364      1,352      1,986
Transport services                    139         112         116        134        103        182        339
Other services                        696        402          495        546        451        822      1,155
Salaries                            4 566      4 147        4 147      3 912      3 883      4,350      4,077
Taxes                                  45         115         115         54         55         24         21
Other expenditures                    168        240          240        349        393        771        442
Operating loss/profit               4 820       6 419       6 419      6 572      6 091      5,648      9,148
Interest income                       + 5         + 3         + 3       + 26       + 24        165         71
Interest expenses                  -1 875      -1 410      -1 410     -1 510     -1 661       -987     -1,603
Non-operating loss/profit         + 1 697    + 2 885      + 2 885      + 185      + 422      +330        -509
Increase in value of cession         - 37           1           1          2        _3           5         -8
Cash-flow                           4 611      7 898        7 898      5 280      4 873      5,161      7,069
Depreciation                        3 626       3 843       3 843      4 189      4 329      4,187      5,874
Provisions                            132       1 123       1 123        726        455        281        372
Net Proit/loss                      + 853        - 73     + 2 932        364         89        693       823
OperatingProfitAoss                - 778      +336         +130       +181       -211         358       1,332
Non-operating Profit/loss        + 1 668       - 505      +2 801      + 181      + 303        330        -506
Profit/loss on cession of assets     +37       + 96          + 1        + 2         - 3         5          -3
47



I1.         Depreciation accounts for 32 per cent of revenues.  In 1993, salaries
accounted for 33 per cent of revenues and had increased for the first time since 87/88. In
1994, salaries had decreased by 6 percent and accounted for 24 percent of revenues.
2.    The financial ratios are analyzed hereafter:
(a)    Solvency and financial autonomy are sound. The long-term debt to equity
ratio is correct in comparison of a maximum acceptable ratio of 0.5. The
current ratio allows for contracting additional long-term debt.
(b)   The return on equity is very low, but this is not an important factor for a
port. The cash-flow seems sufficient.
(c)   The operating profit ranges between 43 and 54 percent of revenues, which
is enough because of the significant percentage required for depreciation of
assets.
(d)   The interest coverage ratio ranges between 3 and 3.5 and should increase.
Table 3: Net Profit/Loss per Port (CFAF million)
1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93
ONPC           + 853       - 73    + 2 932     + 364      + 89     + 693
Douala        + 1 002      - 23    + 2 196     + 411      + 43     + 602
Garoua           -62       -56        +87       -51       -30        -40
Kribi           +25       +22        +230       -24       + 17      +79
Limbe/Tiko      - 112      - 16      +419       + 28      + 59      + 52
48



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 10: CNIC - A Company Profile
1.    The dockyard uses one 10,000-ton and two smaller (500 tons and 1,000 tons) dry-yards.
The 10,000-ton dry-yard was purchased in 1988. The other two are much older. The 10,000 ton
dry-yard is located along berth nb. 14 in the Douala port container terminal, at 3.7 km from the
workshop.  CNIC is owned 30 percent by foreign private investors and 70 percent by
Cameroonian public enterprises:
(a)   ONPC, the national port authority: 20%;
(b)   SNI, the State holding company: 15%;
(c)   SNH, the national petroleum company: 10%;
(d)   CNCC, the shippers' council: 10%; and
(e)   CAMSHIP, the national shipping line: 10%.
2.    Before devaluation, the return on the dockyard activity was estimated at about 15 percent,
which is insufficient in view of the assets placed at its disposal almost free of charge. These assets
include the US$1 1 million dry-yard, the workshop and the use of a berth in the port of Douala for
about US$50,000 per year). CNIC is seeking Government's financing for the relocation of the
dock, including the construction of a new berth and dredging, and for the rehabilitation of the
workshop. The cost of these investments is estimated at above US$10 million. The return after
investment would drop to 10 percent. After devaluation, CNIC became more competitive and its
revenues increased. Thus, the return of the activity is expected to be higher than the above
estimates. CNIC competes with Abidjan, C6te d'Ivoire, and Capetown, South Africa, both at
about 3,000 km from Douala. The market consists of petroleum offshore companies and local or
regional shipowners.
49



Table 1: 1992-1993 Balance Sheet (CFAF '000)
Assets                                   Liabilities
Current assets                     805  Current liabilities            582
Accounts receivable                689  Total equities                 534
Non-current assets                  311  Accrued results              -369
Fixed assets                        288  Equity                        800
Other assets                        23  Others                         105
Total assets                      1,116 1                             1,116
Table 2:1992-1993 Income Statement (CFAF '000)
Revenues                                                     1149
Sales                                                      1,103
Other revenues                                                46
Operatin2 Expenses                                          1,058
Salaries                                                     361
. Materials and supplies consumed                             410
. Services consumed                                           270
Taxes                                                          7
Operatin2 income                                              150
. Other expenses                                               31
. Interest expenses                                            11
. Depreciation and provisions                                 108
Net Operatin2 Income                                          -59
Net non-overatinE Income                                      -34
Net income before tax                                         -63
50



Table 3: Financial Forecast without Investment
Assumptions                    1991    1992    1993    1994       1995    1996      1997    1998    1999   2000   2001    2002    2003
Local Inflation (%)                                      12,50   17,70     11,70    6,25    5,75    5,25    4,75    4,25   '4,00    4,00
Foreign Inflation (%)                                       3        3         3       3       3       3       3       3       3        3
Devaluation (%)                                                    100
Grovth of activity (%/o)                                     3       3         3       3       3       3       3        3       3       3
1991    1992    1993    1994      1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    2003
Overhaul PBC                      57     136       20       23      28       32      35      39      42       45      48      52       56
Overhaul PBE                     130     270     208       331     468      497     527     559     593      629     668     708      751
Overhaul GBC                      23     955     216       250     303      349     382     416     451      487     523     560     600
Overhaul OBE                     641      71      526      837   1.184   1.256   1.333   1.414   1.500   1.591   1.688   1.791   1.900
Works for the local industry      23      39       17       20      24       27      30      33      36       38      41      44       47
Transit and agency               107      34       50       58      70       81      88      96      104     113     121      130     139
Others                           113      30       50       58      70       81      88      96      104     113     121      130     139
Total revenues                 1.094   1.535   1.087    1.577   2.148   2.323   2.484   2.653   2.830   3.016   3.210   3.414   3.631
Salaries                         329     296     382       350     424     488      534     582     631      681     731     783      839
Materials and supplies           302     526     382       567     779     839      895     954   1.016   1.082   1.151   1.223   1.300
Transport consumed                17      21       16       19      22       26      28      31      33       36      39      41       44
Other services consumed          341     331     262       319     399     452      491     533     575      619     663     709      758
Taxes                              7      17        8        9       11      13      14       15      17      18      19      21       22
Others                            51      64       50       35      42       48      53      58      63       68      73      78        0
Total operating expenses       1.005   1.215   1.060    1.299   1.678   1.866   2.016   2.173   2.335   2.503   2.675   2.855   3.047
Operating income                  89     320       27      278     470     458      468     480     495      513     535     559      585
Interest expenses                  0       0        0        0       0        0       0      0        0       0       0       0
Operating incomc afler interest   89     320       27      278     470      458     468     480     495      513     535     559      585
Depreciation                      79      63       57       72      81       50     106      61      82       70      82      87      100
Provisions                         0     196       50       50      50       50      50      50      50       50      50      50       50
Net operating income              10      61      -80      156     339     358      312     369     363      393     403     422      435
Net non-operating income          94       0                                                                 _       _
Ne income before tax             104      61      -80      156     339      358     312     369     363      393     403     422      435
PBC:small Cameroonian vessels; GBC:large Cameroonian vessels; PBE:small foreign vessels; GBE:large foreign vessels.
1992   1993    1994    1995   1996    1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Stocks (nb. ofmonths)                 1,7      2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2
Clients(numberofdays)                135     135     100      75      45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45
Suppliers (nb.ofmonths)               4,5    4,5       3       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2
Stocks (CFAF million)                 74      64      94     130     140    149      159    169    180       192    204    217
Accounts receivable (CFAF million)   567    402    432    441        286    306    327    349    372    396    421           448
Accounts payable (CFAFmillion)    1330 1329 1  165 1  151 !  200 !  219    236    253    271 1  289 1  309    329
Short-temfmnancingneeds              311 |136 |  362 |  420    226 1  236    250    265    281 1  298 1  316    335
Annual Variation                  |       |_ -175    225      59 |194         10      14      15      16      17      18      19
Discount ratio for liquidation    20%
Internal rate of retum (IRR)    14,63%
|Devaluation ratio                100%
_  1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Operating income                      320      27    278    470    458    468    480    495    513    535    559    585
Lease due to ONPC                      25      25      50      50      50      50      50      50      50      50      50     50
Investment                             23     110    100    200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200
Variationofshort-termfinancingneeds          -175    225       59   -194       10      14   1  5       16      17      1 8     19
Residual value
3.624
Cash-Flow(CF)                         322    117        3    261    502    308    316    330    347    368    391  -
Annual CFdiscountedat20%                                3    181    291       149     127    IIl       97      86     76   3.940
Actual CF discounted at 20%                         1.755                                                                    636
Annual CF discounted atTRR                              3    199    333    178    160    145    133    123    115
Actual CF discounted at IRR                         2.396 I               I       I       I               I       I       1 1.006
Table prepared before the January 1994 devaluation on the basis of the preliminary 92-93 financial statements.
51



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 11: MATGENIE - A Company Profile
Table 1: 1992-1993 Balance Sheet (CFAF '000)
Assets                                      Liabilities
Current assets                       8,383  Current liabilities        5,618
Inventories and other current assets  1,341  Non-current               5,941
Accounts receivable                 7,042  liabilities                   281
Non-current assets                  3,457  Total equities                930
Technical Assistance                  972  Equipment subsidy          -9,261
Fixed Assets                        2,418  Accrued results             3,313
Other Assets                           67  Equity                      5,299
__Others
Total assets                        11,840 __11,840
Table 2: 1992-1993 Income Statement (CFAF '000)
Revenues                                                1,631
Leasing of equipment                                    1,316
Sale of spare parts                                      267
Other revenues                                            39
Equipment subsidy                                          9
ODeratin;  Expenditures                                2,306
Salaries                                                1,993
Materials and supplies consumed                           30
Transport consumed                                         7
Other services consumed                                  109
Sale of stocks                                           162
Taxes                                                      5
Operating income                                        -675
. Other expenses                                       1,098
Interest expenses                                       362
. Depreciation                                           736
. Provisions                                             564
Net Overatine Income                                   -2,336
Net non-overatin! income                                1.232
Net income before tax                                  -1,104
52



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 12: LABOGENIE - A Company Profile
Table 1: 1992-1993 Balance Sheet (CFAF '000)
Assets                              Liabilities
Current assets               4,892  Current liabilities                          7,291
Accounts receivable          4,847  Non-current liabilities                          0
Non-current assets            1,963  Total equities                               -436
Fixed Assets                   198  Equipment subsidy                            1,935
Other Assets                 1,765  Accrued results                             -3,223
Equity                                         59
Others                                        793
Total assets                 6,855                                               6,855
Table 2:1992-1993 Income Statement (CFAF '000)
Revenues                                                     719
Net sales                                                    755
Other revenues                                               -31
Operating subsidy                                              5
OveratinE Expenditures                                      1,332
Salaries                                                    1,133
Materials and supplies consumed                               98
Transport consumed                                             7
Other services consumed                                       80
Taxes                                                         14
Operatin2 income                                            -613
O other expenses                                             336
Interest expenses                                           314
. Depreciation and provisions                                190
Net oDerating income                                       -1,453
Net non-operating income                                     975
Net income before tax                                       -483
53



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 13: Road Maintenance Budget and Performance
A. Road Maintenance Budget
89/90   Actual    90/91     Actual   91/92   Actual  92/93   Actual  93/94   Actual
expend expend,       expend.                  __cpn__ expend.          expend.
Operating Budget
Salaries                10,020    100%        8,546    121%   8,314    117%    8,984      98%    8,439    N/A.
Maintenance expenditures    5,757    100%     6,052    100%   7,492    100%    7,500      98%   10,800    N/A.
. Other expenditures
Sub-total                16,646     99%        15,246    112%   16,362    108%   16,876    98%   19,839    N/A.
Investment Budget         4,404     96%        9,620     77%    8,343     44%    4,915     73%    4,910    N/A.
Total                    21,050     99%       24,866     98%   24,705     87%  21,791      92%  24,749     N/A.
The percentage of actual expenditures is not yet available for the 93/94 fiscal year.
B. Earth Road Maintenance Performance
Regraveling (kmn)        Grading (kmn)
1982/83                      430                    12,549
1983/84                       617                  28,429
1984/85                       746                  28,160
1985/86                      696                   25,596
1986/87                      444                   26,549
1987/88                      1,392                  15,819
1988/89                      1,933                  17,369
1989/90                      788                   20,400
1990/91                      784                    12,902
1991/92
1992/93                       75                    4,483
54



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 14: Strategy, Timetable and Key Financial Data for the Privatization of Air Services
I. STRATEGY
1.    The Government of Cameroon (GOC) is planning to restructure and privatize the national flag
carrier (CAMAIR), in order to achieve the following objectives: (a) make domestic and international air
transport service more efficient; (b) reduce government involvement; and (c) promote private sector
participation in the aviation industry. Given the present difficulties of Camair's financial situation, together
with the need for the continuation of the provision of air transport services by a national flag carrier, the
GOC is considering a two-fold strategy: (i) the legal and financial restructuring of CAMAIR, and (ii) the
privatization of a restructured CAMAIR. For the privatization strategy, the GOC will explore the use of
innovative mechanisms for attracting foreign investors, such as the capitalization of the company, the use of
a management contract (MC) with deferred privatization options (DPO), or any other mechanism that could
attain the desired objectives.
A. Background
4.     Cameroon Airlines (CAMAIR) is a corporation under the Cameroonian civil legislation (Societe
Anonyme) created by Law No. 71/LF/4 on June 4, 1971. The airline has currently the following ownership
structure: (i) The GOC holds 75 %, and (ii) Air France holds the remaining shares'. The airline operates five
aircrafts: (a) one B-747-200 combi (1981), (b) two B-737-200 (1972), (c) one B-737-200 (1985), and (d)
one Dash - 8 (1986). Following is the distribution and structure of its traffic markets during the period
1993/94 (June 30 to July 01):
Table 1: CAMAIR Trafric Markets (Passengers)
1993/94 (estimates)
Traffic Markets             No. passengers       % of total    load facdor
Long Haul (Douala - Paris)                 59,720           20.60 %        51.00 %
Regional (Afnca West, Central and East -   98,871           34.10 %        70.00 %
inc. Johannesburg)
Domestic (Douala, Yaounde,                131,268           45.30 %        32.00 %
Ngaounderd, Maroua, Garoua)
Total                      289,859           100.00 %       49.00 %
Source: CAMAIR - Commercial Director (July 1994)
5. Since its origin in 1971, when Cameroon left Air Afrique (joint venture airline between several African
countries), the company has suffered from an inadequate structure (i.e., inadequate fleet and route structure,
insufficient working capital, overstaffing, etc.) that has contributed to a poor financial performance.
Government interference, admninistrative malpractices and management errors have added difficulties to
successful achievements in the airline operations. Estimated debt and arrears as of June 30, 1994, were CFA
42,100 nillions (equivaleiit to approx. US$77.0 million). Of this total, approximately 70 to 75 % is related
to government agencies2 (CNPS - social security and pensions, ASECNA C - airport and air navigation
I Source: Ernst & Young - FiscalAud,tApril 30. 1994
2Or has been assumed by the GOC,from private creditors, under the Performance Contract Agreement (08/24/90)
55



authority, tax authorities, etc.).  The market value of the aviation related assets3 was estimated at
approximately US$50 million in 1993. The labor force consists of 1612 employees (down from 2105 in
1992), and it is estimated that with a total of 900 employees, the airline could be run as efficiently at present.
Under present circumstances (status quo scenanro - no change), operating and financial losses of the airline
are estimated to be between US$8.0 and 10.0 million per year.
Table 2: Strengths and weaknesses of CAMAIR
Strengths                                      Weaknesses
1. Aviation related assets are fully paid.      1. Total debt and arrears are approx. US$77
million
2. Exclusive traffic rights to 38 countries. Only 15 2. Non attractive domestic market (airfares are
been used at present.                           regulated and there is a need to service social
routes - Northbound markets)
3. Relatively low cost labor force. Government 3. Overstaffing  and high  termination  benefits
willingness to help in the reduction of employees agreement under the 1990 performance contract.
(1612 to 900).
4. High costs maintenance overhaul (D checks) 4. Lack of adequate Management Information
have being made to the aircrafls. Next D checks Systems  (i.e.,  accounting,  inventory,  yield
are planned for 1999.                           management, treasury, etc.)
5. Attractive Regional markets (Africa) with 5. Past experience of administrative malpractices
relatively weak competition.                    (ticket collection, free fares, etc.)
6. Possibility of developing a B-737 regional 6. Low utilization rate  (operations hours/block
maintenance center (provide services to other hours) of the B-747-200.
airlines)  _
7. Aircraft well-maintained under ATLAS, Air 7. Poor passenger terminal facilities at Douala
France standards                                (main commercial market in Cameroon).
8. GOC decision to solve Camair's government 8. Cameroon traffic market has not yet recovered
related   debt  and  implement  restructuring from last CFA devaluation (January 1994)
mechanisms that eliminates interference with day
to day operations.
B. The Proposed concept for the Restructuring and Privatization of CAMAIR
6.2. Conceptualframework of the restructuring/privatization proposal.
Basic premise (hypothesis): Given Camair's present condition (i.e., negative net worth, lack of
information systems, lack of availability to audited financial statements and relevant accounts,
overstaffing, etc.), and the situation of the African airline market (i.e., region with the slowest
growth potential in the ICAO/IATA forecasts), the GOC considers it unrealistic to expect the
privatization of CAMAIR as it is, through a public bidding process. Therefore, a restructuring
process will be initially used before successful implementation of the privatization strategy4.
Principles:
Separate the issue of the settlement of past debt and arrears from the air transport operations
(continuity of domestic and international services).
Improve airline operations management and increase the productivity ratios of the company (ASK5
per employee, RPK6 per employee, yicld, etc.). Reduce the operating losses, trim the labor force,
3Aircraft and other aviation-related equipment arefully owned (and depreciated) by CAMAIR. There are no debt or lease related obligations with
the aircraft.
4However, privatizing CAMAIR as it is (without restructuring) will be a preferred option, ifpossible.
5ASK (average seat kilometer)
56



open new routes in the regional markets, abandon unprofitable routes, and start generating profits in a
given period (e.g., 24 months).
Privatize through an international bidding process, a controlling block of shares of a restructured
CAMAIR (legal and financially). Preferably, the controlling interest should be sold to a consortium
representing private Cameroonian interests and a major regional and/or international carrier.
6.3    Proposed Strategy for the restructuring and privatization of CAMAIR.
Complete the legal and financial restructuring of CAMAIR. Privatize the management and ownership of the
restructured airline through the use of the following options (one of them or a combination of both): (a)
immediate capitalization of the airline by a group of private investors with full management control of the
company (management and immediate ownership); or (b) use of a management contract, with deferred
privatization options as a mechanism to improve the airline's performance and generate private sector
involvement (management and subsequently ownership).
Phase 1:
6.4 Legal andfinancial restructuring of CAMAIR.
(a) Creation of a new commercial company (e.g., CAMAIR 11) to provide air transport services to Cameroon
under an operational agreement (i.e., concession or license on traffic rights, lease of office space and
maintenance facilities, etc.) with CAMAIR (and/or the GOC). CAMAIR 1I will be initially incorporated with
a relatively low paid-in capital (step 1), as a new company under the ownership of Ministry of Finance.
Aviation related assets and traffic rights will be transferred to CAMAIR 11 in order to continue the provision
of air transport services to Cameroon. The transfer of aircraft-related assets wvill be done through a capital
increase (i.e., capitalization of CAMAIR 11, step 2) in order to provide the new company with the necessary
equity base to develop operations and access working capital finance.
(b) Isolation of CAMAIR from the operational aspects of air transport services (i.e. liquidation process). A
senior officer', with relevant experience (i.e., the liquidator of CAMAIR), will receive a mandate from
Camnair's general assembly to negotiate, restructure, transfer or cancel existing debt and arrears. The mandate
will also include the termination of redundant staff, and the divestiture of unprofitable assets.  It will be
executed in a given period of time (e.g., one to two years). During the restructuring period of CAMAIR (i.e.,
from one month to 24 months), the GOC, together with an advisory team (i.e., legal advisors and financial
advisors) will prepare the privatization of the airline operations according to the following steps:
(a) Transfer the aviation related assets and traffic rights to CAMAIR If and proceed with the
dissolution of CAMAIR. Appropriate legal mechanisms will have to be implemented for the
transfer of traffic rights, in order to minimize the consultation process with each signing country
in Cameroon's bilaterals.
(b) Terminate Camair's employees. Approximately 900 employees will be rehired by CAMAIR 11
(for these employees an employec stock ownership program - ESOP - will be developed based on
the use of their termination benefits). The remaining 700 employees will be laid off and their
termination benefits paid. The GOC intends to apply a labor restructuring process similar to the
one used for the liquidation of the Airport Authority of Cameroon and the creation of a new
corporation, AMroports du Cameroun.
6RPK (revenue passenger kilometer)
This person should be a relatively high ranking officer from the airline, the GOC or from the private sector, who could act and negotiate as the
liquidator.
57



Table 3: Proforma Initial Balance Sheet - CAMAIR II
Assets (USS millions)                     Liabilities (US S milions)
Aircraft                           47.0    IATA (airlines compensation)         8.0
Ground Handling Equipment          1.0     Tickets sold (not flown)             10.8
Spare parts                        1.0     Other Commercial Debt                11.2
Trade Mark                         1.0
Total Liabilities                   30.0
Total Assets                       50.0     Net Equity                          20.0
(only/or illustrazions purposes)
Source: Mach 2000 asset valuation / CAMAIR June 30, 1994financial statements (non audited)
(c) Establish the "fair value" of CAMAIR 11 in order to determine the price of the shares to be
privatized. Equity participation to be sold to a private consortium formed by Cameroonian
private investors and the strategic partner (major regional and/or intemational carrier -
management contractor). Given the need of CAMAIR 11 to maintain Cameroonian nationality
(5 1%), and the reduction of public sector participation, a group  representing  private
Cameroonian interest would be needed to implement the strategy.
Table 4: CAMAIR II ownership structure under the proposed concept (after the restructuring period)
Investors Group                Proposed Participation
Ministry of Transport                      20 - 25 %
Cameroonian Private Investors                  20 - 25 %
Strategic Partner (i.e., air carrier)           40 - 50 %
ESOP                                 0 - 10%
Total                                 100 %
Consortium = Cameroonian private Investors + Strategic partner (approx. 60 - 75 /)
Phase II:
6.5    Option (a): Privatization of CAMAIR II through a capitalization strategv. Subscription of a capital
increase in the equity of CAMAIR II by a group of strategic investors (i.e. the consortium). Using the
illustration figures from Table 3, if the strategic group were to subscribe 50 % of CAMAIR II equity, the
required amount would be US$20.0 million. This option has the following advantages: (i) it generates
private sector participation immediately after the restructuring phase, (ii) if the amount subscribed by the
strategic investor is 50% or more, it would automatically provide the management control to the new
investors (i.e., in principle, no management contract will be needed under this scenario), (iii) prospective
investors will be more willing to inject capital in a company that they will be controlling (i.e., capitalization),
than a cash disbursement to the GOC through the acquisition of existing shares in CAMAIR II, and (iv) it
would provide CAMAIR II with needed working capital for the improvement of operations (i.e., infornation
management systems, aircraft upgrades, etc.).
In order to increase the attractiveness of the transaction (i.e., capital increase) to the prospective investors,
contributions other than cash could be considered for the equity subscription. Payment in kind, for the
58



subscription of capital, such as the use of airline related assets (i.e., aircraft, equipment, etc.), airline-related
services (i.e., reservation systems, yield management systems, ground handling services, etc.), and the
provision of management services would facilitate the flow of foreign investment.
6.6. Option (b): Privatization of CAMAIR II through the use of a Management Contract (with deferred
privatization options).
Development of a management contract (MC) for the air transport operation of CAMAIR II for an initial
pre-determined period (e.g., 24 months). The MC would have the following features:
Base management contract with performance and evaluation criteria as well as incentive
mechanisms. The main objective of the MC will be to improve the productivity and profitability
ratios (reduce operational losses and generate profit) of the airline operation. The MC will be
targeted to select private contractors with expertise in the industry, and preferably in the Africa
Region (i.e., international or regional air carriers - strategic partner). The management team will de
facto have the potential to become future shareholder of CAMAIR II.
Deferred privatization options. The MC will additionally include privatization options such as:
(i) Purchase option for a given number of shares (i.e. see Table 4) in CAMAIR II at a pre-
determined value (or price formula). This price formula would be based on a technical and
accounting audit of the net assets to be transferred to CAMAIR 11 (i.e., audit by a recognized
international firm). The price formula and corresponding share values will be developed by the
Financial Advisor in coordination with the GOC. The option would expire at the end of the pre-
determined period, but it could be exercised at any moment during such period.
(ii) Use of profit sharing mechanisms against the value of a share at a future conversion date. The
incentives in the MC should be linked to profit generation (loss reduction). Instead of paying cash to
the management team for the profit sharing bonus, the payment could be made in kind (shares) as
part of the purchase option participation.
(iii)Right offirst refusal in the event of an offer to purchase a controlling interest by a third party,
during the life of the MC, on the remaining shares not included in the initial purchase option.
Initial subscription of capital. An initial percentage of CAMAIR II equity could be subscribed by
the management contractor (i.e., management team), in order to provide working capital to the new
company through an equity increase, therefore having a participation in CAMAIR II from the start
of operations. This feature could also be used to develop an objective selection criteria among
prospective bidders (i.e., management contractors), by allowing the amount of initial capital for a
subscription to be determined by the bidder (e.g., minimum of 5% to a maximum of 50%). The
highest initial capital increase offered by any given contractor will become the winning bid. The use
of this mechanism will contribute to a more expeditious privatization of the restructured airline'.
The use of this type of MC (MC + deferred privatization options), could provide strategic partners (air
carriers) with a low-cost and low-risk altemative to explore the business opportunity of the airline operation
in Cameroon. The contractor (management team) will have the opportunity to manage the airline operation
(i.e., restructure routes, improve ratios, train personnel, etc.), before making an important investment
commitment. The GOC will benefit from an air transport service run by an experienced management team
In theory, a 50% initial subscription by the MC will eliminate the need to use deferred privatization options, thus privatizing CAMAIR IIfrom the
start of operations. Given the airline tndustry situation, and the economic conditions of Cameroon. this option could be difficult to implement in
the beginning. but will, nevertheless, be preferable to any deferred option.
59



(that has the additional incentive of future ownership), and by concentrating its efforts on the settlement of
debt and arrears, the reduction of labor force, and divestiture of unprofitable assets in CAMAIR.
Table 5 illustrates a sample restructuring plan for the airline operations in Cameroon, which could be used as
an indication for the development of the Base management contract.
Table 5: Base Management Contract
Performance Criteria (for illustration purpose)
Criteria                               Unit       Business Plan
Marketing:
Load factor long haul market (passenger and cargo)           % capacity      60 % (p)
Load factor regional market (passenger and cargo)            % capacity       75 % (p)
Yield regional market (passenger)                             CFAI seat       125,000
Revenue volume total system (passenger)                         RPK          50.0 MM
Fm ance:
Operating profit Regional routes                             %  revenues       15 %
Crew cost per operational hour                                CFA/hour        90,000
Technical
Punctuality index                                                %             88 %
ratio of aircraft utilization - B 747-200                   % oper./block      65 %
Privatization Process.
6.7. Option (a): Capitalization strategy
The award of the equity increase subscription in CAMAIR II will be done through an international bidding
process with public announcements. The bidding criteria will be developed by a Financial Advisor in
coordination with the GOC. Criteria such as the following could be used for the award process: (i) highest
bid for the capital subscription (e.g., base price + premium), (ii) bid with the highest % of cash contribution,
etc. The consortium (para. 6.3.b) should be structured previous to the award of the equity subscription.
6.8 Option (b): Management Contract + DPO
The award of the MC + deferred privatization options will be done through an international bidding process
with public announcements. The bidding criteria will be developed by a Financial Advisor in coordination
with the GOC. Criteria such as the following could be used for the award process: (i) premium to be paid
over the recommended base price (price formula), (ii) level of economic incentives proposed in the MC, (iii)
initial equity increase subscription through the contribution in kind to the equity of CAMAIR 11 (i.e., aviation
related assets and/or services). De facto, the award of the MC + deferred privatization option will be an
advance sale of a controlling participation in CAMAIR 11. The consortium (para. 6.3.b) could be structured
previous to the award of the MC and/or during the restructuring period9.
Conversion of the purchase option (in the MC) into ownership during the pre-deternined period by the
selected management contractor (and/or consortium). In case the purchase option is not exercised by the
contractor, the GOC would then proceed to privatize through open bidding for a restructured CAMAIR
(CAMAIR II).
9To be determfned by the FnancialAdvisor in coordination wfth the GOC prior to the award process.
60



In the event that no bidders are interested in CAMAIR II, other divestiture strategies will have to be
developed and implemented (i.e., liquidation of the company, auctioning of the international traffic rights,
sale of the aircraft related assets, and spin-off of the domestic operations).
Note: The use of a "privatization trust concept" or similar would be explored by the Financial Advisor as a
mechanism to increase the comfort of the prospective management contractors (i.e., future shareholders in
CAMAIR II) in the future actions of the GOC with respect to their shares in CAMAIR II.
C. Legal framework and process of the "proposed concept" 10
7. A preliminary legal assessment of the "proposed concept" has been done for the preparation of the
"proposed concept". The major legal procedures could be summarized as follows:
(a)    Incorporation of CAMAIR II as a separate legal entity under the law  of Cameroon.
CAMAIR II will be a limited liability company (i.e., societe anonyme) and the majority of
its capital will be held by Cameroonian shareholders (i.e., 51%). The right to use or the
ownership of the key airline related assets (i.e traffic rights, aviation related assets, building
and offices, contracts, name) will be transferred from CAMAIR to CAMAIR II.
(b)    Transfer of the selected employees to CAMAIR II, either by continuing the current labor
agreements or by terminating them and initiating new labor agreements (rehiring process).
A selection procedure similar to the one used for the privatization of ADC (i.e. Aeroports du
Cameroun) could also be applied.
(c)    Capitalization of CAMAIR 11 and/or development of the Management Contract, including
the performance criteria, evaluation criteria, and management incentives.
(d)    Documentation of the Purchase Option (deferred privatization options) on CAMAIR II
shares. This could be granted by the agreement between the management contractor and the
shareholder of CAMAIR II (i.e., the GOC) of a unilateral promise of sale. It could be
provided in the promise of sale that the number of shares covered by the option and the
option itself would not be subject to negotiation.
(e)    Development of the "privatization trust concept" for the shares to be sold at a later date to
the management contractor and other private investors (i.e., Cameroonian investors).
10 This preliminary legal assessment applies to both option(a) and (bJ, with the exemption that in option (a) there might not be a need for a
management contract (i.e.. if equity subscribed by the consortium-strategic investor is equal or above .5O%).
61



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 14: Strategy, Timetable and Key Financial Data for the Privatization of Air Services
II. TIMETABLE
_______________  1994                                     1 995                                                     1996
Actio                                   Rrsatwaauendu                   NO             FT7         TI T-T  A-- SO- 0NF01-- TFM  '   M                                     J AS- O)N   0D
Rev-  par Itlooenen    des
tenor de refernc  dii
cosilrfinan-e                      Accod ia.aa'D
Noa-ohjeca   de 'IDA                                                                      -        -
ifeaarnde a. loeC                  Pr 1e  e  tit  raesea
d ioi  o    oae-srrne i-D 
Non-objecn- de fiDA                                                          t
Al'I'ir d'offrnr                        SoPoe .ere pa I
P,oneoreierti-
financiere de tWAinN                                                                      f d.1 7-
Pluw~an   d.rteond CAMA IR iiI
I)eliuio- don proganan  de                                 -
ripanori~ dee employeea
Drode dr I Pron de aie  e               itnrnd   ritLa                                                                    
gnion- e  vipio  de                     I poon. de pmwansnsw- 
lrpara- run  i dre-ur d apel            lirolet de dosser1_
di offirs                               iaasi A 'IDA                                           I       
S Ic d rafororanon-   ~ HD
Aippd dMofic
Analyse, des oilie                      Proposiuon dulintoon
tone on deCANIAR IISignastae do con"u
finfe Ie acfs a  AMAM  Ii-
D-rianage de I eapioralin-
l.uo d ,nrd CAMAIR--r                                                              -7        17; {            1- - - -
a mie par i Gooe--ennide                                                - 
pers-ne de Ia CA-MAIR                   Accad isusere 'IDA                                                                                                                    -
d-txi-                       ANniDA1ccnd  'D                                                                i-                                                   c
pirearno deJ  elsPije de feitnem toIasrrrs1 I -
irAniioaroooiine                        a 'oiuDA    T         __..          P      ---111~
Appeyl  U offic -o rsoargespni                                                                                                                             - - - -
N-e-ob1ecrioe de 'IIDA                                                     i-
E-1.w- du p-                                                                                                                                                                7
P,   ns offic                         OOeusei 
Auuurlvrr    Pioposirron d'astrrborcon



III. KEY FINANCIAL DATA
Income Statements for the New Company
After Devaluation (CFAF million)
1994.1995        1995-1996        1996-1997
.........................................................................................................................................................................................
Revenues                          43,236           44,297            39,194
Passengers                        35,499           36,320            30,841
Royalties                            390              390               390
Other revenues                     2,850            2,850             2,850
Handling                           2,880            2,950             3,026
Sales aboard                         475              494              494
Interest income                      990              990               990
Additional revenues                  152              303               603
Oneratine Expenses                27,580           26,400            23,633
Fuel                               7,480            7,140             6,113
Lodging of crew                      440              400               400
Maintenance                        7,800            7,000             6,600
Airport taxes                      4,050            4,050             3,600
Services to passengers             3,060            3,060             2,550
Handling                           4,750            4,750             4,370
Depreciation                       3,000             1,700                0
Leasing                              200              200               210
Insurance                            900              800               700
Cost of sales                      4,000            4,000             2,880
Administrative overheads           2,760            2,530             1,840
Interest expenses                    327              242               242
Other depreciation                   500              500               500
Salaries                           8,250             6710             6,270
Provision for investment             500              500               250
Total expenses                    48,022           43,582            36,525
Net income                        (4,786)             715             2,669
% of6revenues                     -11,07%             1,61%            6,81%
63



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT FOR THE PREPARATION OF THE TRANSPORT SECTOR REFORM
Schedule 15: Strategy, Timetable and Key Financial Data for the
Privatization of Rail Services
I. STRATEGY
1.     Le Gouvernement de la Republique du Cameroun a decid6, dans le cadre de la politique de
restructuration et de privatisation des entreprises publiques du secteur des transports, de conceder
l'exploitation du chemin de fer camerounais A une societe concessionnaire privee.  Le present
document presente: (a) les caracteristiques generales retenues pour la concession d'exploitation
ferroviaire; et (b) les principales modalites de mise en oeuvre de la concession (structuration de la
societe concessionnaire, procedure de choix de l'actionnaire de reference, calendrier pr6visionnel de la
mise en concession).
A. Caracteristiques generales de la concession d'exploitation ferroviaire
3.     Les conditions de l'exercice de lactivite ferroviaire par le concessionnaire et les relations entre
l'Etat et le concessionnaire seront definies par une convention de concession signee entre l'Etat et le
concessionnaire dont les caracteristiques generales sont present6es ci-apres. Au titre de la concession
le concessionnaire assurera: (a) 1'exploitation technique et commerciale de services de transport
ferroviaire; (b) ['exploitation, la maintenance, le renouvellement et lamenagement des infrastructures
ferroviaires existantes; et (c) la gestion domaniale courante du domaine public ferroviaire.  Le
concessionnaire exercera son activite sur une base commerciale, A ses frais et risques et perils.
4.     Services de transport ferroviaire. Le concessionnaire exploitera des services de transport
ferroviaire de marchandises et de voyageurs dits commerciaux, et, eventuellement, A la demande
explicite de l'Etat, d'autres services de transport ferroviaire de voyageurs dits services exploites A titre
d'obligation de service public. La nature, la configuration, l'organisation technique et commerciale des
services dits commerciaux seront librement arretees par le concessionnaire, en reference A ses objectifs
de rentabilite. Les eventuels services voyageurs exploites A titre d'obligation de service public -
notamnment les services de desserte locale omnibus - feront l'objet de conventions sign6es entre l'Etat et
le concessionnaire qui en definiront la configuration et la tarification et qui prevoiront le versement par
l'Etat au concessionnaire d'une contribution pour obligation de service public permettant de couvrir le
deficit engendre par lesdits services. Dans une formule variante, qui est brievement decrite au
paragraphe 13 ci-dessous, 1'exploitation de la totalite des services ferroviaires voyageurs serait assur6e
par une societe specialisee, distincte du concessionnaire et les seuls services de transport exploites par
le concessionnaire seraient les services marchandises; le Gouvernement arretera prochainement sa
decision en ce qui concerne le choix eventuel de cette variante.
5.     Utilisation  des  infrastructures  ferroviaires  par  d'autres  operateurs  de  transport
ferroviaire. L'utilisation des infrastructures ferroviaires exploitees par le concessionnaire sera ouverte,
sur d6cision de l'Etat, a d'autres operateurs de transports ferroviaires apres une periode initiale
d'exclusivit6 accordee au concessionnaire pour une duree d'environ cinq ans.  L'utilisation des
infrastructures s'effectuerait dans le cadre de conventions particulieres signees entre le concessionnaire
et l'op6rateur et l'operateur verserait au concessionnaire un peage d'utilisation des infrastructures.
64



6.     Infrastructures ferroviaires. Les infrastructures ferroviaires existantes, qui sont et resteront
propriet6 de l'Etat, seront mises A la disposition du concessionnaire. Le concessionnaire organisera
l'utilisation et assurera l'exploitation et la maintenance des infrastructures ferroviaires et supportera
directement les charges correspondantes. Le concessionnaire assurera la maitrise d'ouvrage (par
delegation de l'Etat) et la maitrise d'oeuvre des operations de renouvellement et d'amenagement de
infrastructures ferroviaires existantes et en assurera le financement (I'Etat pouvant donner sa garantie
financiere  pour certains  financements). Les operations  de  renouvellement et d'amenagement
d'infrastructures seront soumises A lagrement de l'Etat; en fin de concession, la partie non amortie des
investissements sera remboursee au concessionnaire par I'Etat. Les infrastructures nouvelles de
d6veloppement (creation de lignes nouvelles) seront decid6s par l'Etat qui en fixera les conditions de
r6alisation; leur eventuelle integration A la concession s'effectuerait par avenant A la convention de
concession.
7.     Materiels ferroviaires. En debut de concession, le concessionnaire s6lectionnera parmi les
materiels existants de la REGIFERCAM les materiels necessaires A son exploitation 1; ces materiels
seront pris en location par le concessionnaire aupres de l'Etat dans le cadre de contrats de location A
caractere commercial. Les materiels supplementaires dont le concessionnaire aura besoin en cours de
concession - soit au titre du renouvellement du mat6riel existant, soit pour faire face au d6veloppement
du trafic - seront acquis ou loues librement par le concessionnaire, sans intervention ni garantie
financiere de l'Etat; toutefois, l'Etat beneficiera d'un droit de pr6emption sur les ventes de mat6riels
par le concessionnaire (afin notamment de garantir, en fin de concession, la p6rennit6 de l'exploitation
ferroviaire).
8.     Personnel. Le personnel du concessionnaire sera r6gi par les dispositions du code du travail
applicables aux salaries du secteur priv6. En debut de concession le concessionnaire s6lectionnera les
personnels qu'il reprendra parmi les personnels existants de la REGIFERCAM.
9.     Redevance de concession. Le concessionnaire versera A l'Etat une redevance de concession en
contrepartie de la mise A disposition des infrastructures ferroviaires existantes et du droit d'exploiter
les services. Les modalites de d6termination de la redevance (montant forfaitaire annuel, pourcentage
du chiffre d'affaires du concessionnaire,..) auront A etre arretees.
10.    Duree de la concession. La concession sera de type "glissant", avec une duree initiale de 20
ans (duree approximative d'amortissement des materiels ferroviaires) et possibilite de prolongation,
d'accord parties, pour des p6riodes successives de cinq annees, a decider A l'issue de chaque periode
quinquennale. La convention de concession fixera par ailleurs les conditions de reprise de
l'exploitation ferroviaire par l'Etat en cours de concession et de d6cheance du concessionnaire en cas
de manquement grave.
11.    Dispositions fiscales. La societe concessionnaire sera soumise aux dispositions fiscales de droit
commun. Toutefois, les carburants utilis6s dans les locomotives et autres engins sur rail seront acquis
en franchise des taxes et droits pergus par l'Etat en contrepartie des couts d'utilisation, de maintenance
et de renouvellement des infrastructures routieres.
12.    Suivi d'execution de la concession et reglement des litiges. Le suivi d'execution de la
concession s'effectuera par un Comite de suivi associant representants de l'Etat (Minist&es charg6s des
. La pertinence des choix du concessionnaire en la matiere sera pr6sent6e dans le projet de Plan dentreprise
prepare par les candidats (voir paragraphe 16 ci-dessous).
65



Finances et des Transports) et representants du concessionnaire. Le concessionnaire fournira A titre de
compte rendu d'activite divers documents A identifier dans la convention de concession. Un auditeur
independant designe par le comite de suivi effectuera un audit annuel de la concession (examen des
comptes du concessionnaire, opinion sur le respect par les parties des clauses de la concession). Les
differends et litiges seront tranches par une commission arbitrale selon les regles de conciliation et
d'arbitrage de la Chambre de commerce internationale.
13.    Variante d'organisation de l'activite voyageurs. Ainsi qu'indique au paragraphe 3 ci-dessus,
le Gouvernement arretera prochainement une decision en matiere d'organisation de l'activite ferroviaire
voyageurs. En variante de l'organisation dans laquelle les services ferroviaires voyageurs sont
exploites par le concessionnaire, I'Etat pourrait decider de confier l'exploitation desdits services A une
societe specialisee, distincte du concessionnaire. Dans cette variante - qui serait notamment justifi6e
par le fait que lactivite voyageurs rev& pour l'essentiel le caractere de service public (par opposition
au caractere exclusivement commercial de I'activit6 marchandises) - les services ferroviaires voyageurs
seraient exploites par une societe distincte dans le cadre d'un contrat d'affermage. Dans ce schema, et
compte tenu du fait qu'une organisation de la traction des trains voyageurs par un parc de locomotives
distinct du parc des locomotives affecte A la traction des trains marchandises ne serait actuellement pas
economique, le r6le du concessionnaire en matiere de services voyageurs consisterait A (i) mettre les
infrastructures ferroviaires A la disposition de la societe specialisee pour l'exploitation des services
voyageurs et assurer le dispatching des trains voyageurs; et (ii) assurer la traction des trains voyageurs
(autres que ceux realisees en rames automotrices). La societe d'exploitation des services voyageurs
verserait alors au concessionnaire un peage pour l'utilisation des infrastructures (calcule sur la base des
charges suppl6mentaires supportees par le concessionnaire en raison du trafic voyageurs) et, d'autre
part, une redevance pour la traction des trains voyageurs (calculee sur la base des kilometres x
locomotives parcourus).
B. Modalites de mise en oeuvre de la concession
Structuration de la societe concessionnaire
14.    La societe concessionnaire sera une societe anonyme par actions, de droit camerounais, avec
siege social A Douala. Un actionnaire de reference possedera au minimum 51 % du capital de la societe
(actions A) et s'engagera A conserver ce pourcentage minimal du capital pendant une duree d'au moins
sept ans apres le debut de la concession; pour la moiti6 au moins, les actions A devront etre detenues
par des personnes physiques de nationalite camerounaise ou des societes de droit camerounais; la
participation de fournisseurs de materiels ferroviaires ou d'entreprises de travaux ferroviaires dans
l'actionnariat de reference sera interdite. L'actionnaire de reference disposera de la majorit6 des sieges
au Conseil d'Administration . La partie du capital de la societe concessionnaire autre que celle
poss6dee par l'actionnaire de reference (actions B) sera destinee A etre souscrite par des personnes
physiques ou morales de nationalite camerounaise. Au sein de cette partie, cinq % au minimum du
capital de la societe concessionnaire sera reservee pour le personnel actuel de la REGIFERCAM.
L'Etat s'engage A ne pas detenir, directement ou par l'intermediaire de societ6s publiques, un
pourcentage du capital total de la societe excedant 15%. Dans une p6riode interimaire, une partie des
actions B pourrait, dans l'attente de leur placement aupres de personnes physiques ou morales de
nationalit6 camerounaise, faire l'objet d'un portage, dans des conditions restant A determiner.
66



Procedure de choix de I'actionnaire de reference de la societe concessionnaire
15.    L'actionnaire de reference sera choisi par appel A la concurrence internationale selon une
procedure en trois etapes, telle qu'esquiss6e ci-dessous. L'ensemble de la procedure sera plac6e sous la
responsabilit6 de la structure de pilotage.
16.    Prospection et preselection de candidatures. Les actionnaires de r6ference potentiels feront
l'objet d'une prospection intense. Un avis d'appel de candidatures sera publie dans la presse nationale
et dans la presse internationale specialisee; des reunions de presentation seront organisees au Cameroun
et une mission de prospection se rendra dans divers pays etrangers (Europe occidentale, Am6rique du
Nord, Afrique du Sud). Les criteres techniques, commerciaux et financiers de qualification seront
communiques aux candidats qui seront invites A presenter leur dossier de demande de qualification.
L'ensemble des candidats repondant aux criteres de qualification seront preselectionnes.
17.    Etape intermediaire de selection. Un dossier de consultation sera transmis A 1'ensemble des
candidats preselectionnes. Le dossier comportera (i) des elements A caractere informatif sur le contexte
economique general et l'activite ferroviaire au Cameroun; (ii) les elements de d6finition du cadre
contractuel et reglementaire de lactivite future de la societe concessionnaire (et en particulier le projet
de convention de concession); et (iii) la definition du contenu et des modalites de presentation des
offres. Les offres pr6sent6es A cette etape par les candidats comporteront pour l1essentiel: (a) un plan
d'entreprise pr6visionnel de la societe concessionnaire pour une periode de cinq ans (perspectives
d'activite et politique commerciale, programme d'investissements, politique du personnel, projections
financieres); et (b) leurs commentaires et suggestions sur le projet de convention de concession. Les
offres seront discutees avec chacun des candidats qui pourront, A l'issue de ces discussions, reviser
leurs propositions. Les candidats ayant presente un plan d'entreprise juge - le cas echeant apres
revision - acceptable seront alors invit6s A presenter leur offre pour l'etape final de selection.
18.    Etape finale de selection. A l'issue de l'tape intermediaire de selection, le Gouvernement
arretera la redaction definitive de la convention de concession (en tenant compte, le cas echeant, des
suggestions pr6sentees anterieurement par les candidats) et demandera aux candidats ayant franchi
l'etape intermediaire de selection de presenter leurs propositions financieres en matiere de redevance de
concession. Les offres seront ouvertes publiquement et le candidat ayant propose la redevance de
concession la plus elevee sera definitivement designe comme actionnaire de reference de la societe
concessionnaire.
II. TIMETABLE
19.    La duree totale du processus de mise en concession, est estime A environ 23 mois A partir de sa
mise en route se decomposant en:
trois mois pour le recrutement du consultant charge de fournir un appui A la structure
de pilotage de la mise en concession;
16 mois pour le processus proprement dit de choix de l'actionnaire de reference de la
societe concessionnaire; et
quatre mois pour la preparation de la reprise effective de ['exploitation par le
concessionnaire.
67



Un chronogramme previsionnel des principales etapes est presente et brievement commente
ci-dessous.
21.    Choix de lactionnaire de reference de la societt concessionnaire. Le processus de choix de
l'actionnaire de r6ference de la soci6te concessionnaire proprement dit prendrait environ 16 mois, soit
sept mois et demi pour la phase de prospection et preselection des candidatures;
sept mois et demi pour l'etape intermediaire de selection; et
un mois pour 1'etape finale de selection.
22.    Preparation de la reprise de Ilexploitation par le concessionnaire. Cette periode, d'environ
quatre mois, correspond a la creation effective de la societ6 concessionnaire, a la selection du
personnel a reprendre par le concessionnaire, a la mobilisation par la societe des financements initiaux
necessaires au d6marrage de 1'exploitation et a la preparation technique de la reprise d'exploitation.
68



-~ -                                    - ~- t - tX 1  1
~~~~-       -        0 . #. Xti           0- jiX   
-0~    E      ,        0;   t-  t X X<g]XR
16                 0                             1
- 1- --- ---- ----. --X- - --- -t X  <11    j    ]xR
I  L * III                                    O~  
BI11           -=l1
T=- -TITTT- ILI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



III. KEY FINANCIAL DATA
Two options for the privatization of rail services are presented in the operating accounts and the
Financing plans here-below:
- Option (a): freight and passenger transport are run separately by two different operators, by the
freight operator contracted-out to operate passenger transport through a separate entity.
- Option (b): one single private operator owns and maintains equipment for both freight and passenger
transport. This would generate economies of scale, but would introduce the risk of penalizing the
freight sector because of debt dues by the Government for unpaid subsidies to the passenger sector.
The financing plan of the private operator assumes low financial charges, based on loans with a 2% interest
rate. Higher financial charges would deter any private investor. Passenger transport would require grants for
new investments, if any. Consequently, no financial costs and depreciation were considered in the passenger
transport operating accounts.
Pnrvatizing railways being a new experience in Africa, the potential private investors will analyze the risks of
such an operation. In order to attract enough investors to stimulate competition, and thus, to obtain the best
conditions for the concession of rail services operation to private investors, public owner needs to mitigate the
risks of the concession. These risks are both commercial (declining market, resulting in lower revenues than
expected) and political (inflation, devaluation of the currency, political instability).  An analysis of the
commercial risks of the concession is carried out here-below, to measure the potential impact of these risks for
the concessionary company, as well as for the State. It demonstrates the need for a careful design of the
concession agreement to mitigate these risks, and thus enhance the chances for the success of the privatization.
(1) OPERATING ACCOUNTS AND FINANCING PLAN OF THE CONCESSIONNAIRE.
- Option (a): Freight Transport and Passenger Transport Completely Separated.
TOM :.*Wt    . ... 21300  23110  24266  24945  25669  26439  27232  28049  28891  29757
r        -      .      710     710    710    710    710    710    710    710    710    710
30    32.6   34.2   35.1  36.15    37.2   38.4   39.5   40.7   41.9
Tota~.x  6?r-   12418  13475  14154  14553  14978  15625  16106  16595  17092  17617
_                   7787    8450   8878   9129   9397   9877  10185  10496  10810  11147
.. ;...iEeXit.......Z,4631    5025   5276   5423   5581   5748   5921   6098   6281   6470
0   *t3 n - t         8882    9636  10112  10393  10691  10814  11126  11455  11799  12140
FM""'~004M"M           391     563    723    803    803    803    803    803    803    803
Do r loi&-......    1009    1629   2669   3462   3562   3662   3762   3862   3962   4062
_nlQm~    7482    7244   6521   5928   6127   6150   6362   6590   6835   7076
sourcc: EDS-Eurexcel Feasibility study (December 1994)
70



Orti   AccunW_X*P                                                                 .it. ~t
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
4720  51211  5377  5527   5688   5859   6035  6216   6402  6594
tWt~  ~ 6427  6971   7323  7525   7743   8032   8276  8525   8780  9046
. E 3110  3372   3541  3640   3745   3915   4035  4157   4280  4412
_          _ 4       3317  3599   3782  3885   3998   4117   4241  4368   4500  4634
~~               0      0   ~~~0       0       0      0       0     0       0      0
__     ~~0     0      0      0.      0,     0       0     0       0      0.
. . . -1707  -1850  -1946  -1998  -2055  -2173  -2241 -2309  -2378  -2452
source: EDS-Eurexcel Feasibility study (December 1994)
- Option (b): Freight Operator to Manage the Equipment and its leasing for Passenger Transport.
O .mt_   Ac~In      _1  IhTA"A
"CAUM*v AM,  21300  23110  24266  24945  25669  26439  27232  28049  28891  29757
710    710    710    710    710    710    710    710    710    710
_Pr   TK~i~           30    32.6   34.2   35.1  36.15    37.2   38.4   39.5   40.7   41.9
0tTh_ -  14707  15958  16761  17233  17736  18473  19040  19617  20205  20824
_~ .    8306   9013   9469   9736  10022  10528  10856  11188  11523  11881
55g...    6401    6945   7293   7497   7714   7945   8184   8429   8682   8943
6592   7353   7705   7913   8133   8165   8392   8633   8885   9133
- ~      391    563    723    803    803    803    803    803    803    803
1009   1629   2669   3462   3562   3662   3762   3862   3962   4062
Net Opuia~ng~~       5192   4961    4114   3448   3569   3501    3628   3768   3921    4069
~ees1mP~issiz    2290   2283   2407   2480   2558   2649   2734   2822   2914   3007
source: EDS-Eurexcel Feasibility study (December 1994)
'~4720  5121  5377  5527  5688  5859  6035  6216  6402  6594
fl*6%V~4138  4488  4712 4844  4985, 5184  5342  5502  56671 5839
-     i2591  2809  2950  3033  3120  3264  3364  3465  2098  3678
1547  1679  1762  1811  186-5  1920  1978  2037  3569  2161
F~~na~dst~44     0      0     0     0      0     0      0      0     0      0
Oerec~~s~a~ii~   0      0     0     0.    0      0.    0       0.    0      0.
Net~.i~e.mti '~ 582   633   665   683   703   6751  693   714   735   755
~6$*   P  ~Th-  2290  22831 2407  2480  2558  26491 2734  2822  2914  3007
71



Financing Plan for the Private Operator
The financing plan of the private investor is based on the hypothesis of a medium level of traffic, with an
operating fee adjusted to obtain a Rate of Return after 10 years of 20%.
TABLEAU DE FINANCEMENT - CONCESSIONNAIRE MARCHANDISES
....N1 X                                  I
Frais financiers    391    563    723    803    803    803    803    803    803    803
Investssements  9732   8430  14620  10100   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000
.___ Achat dactifs    8744    .
=___ Redevance      2140   2408   2604   2765   2925   3086   3264   3424   3603   3781
BFR            6375    542    346    363    214    227    242    249    257    264
Total              27382  11943  18293  14031   5942   6116   6309   6476   6663   6848
URCEM           a    s    _                                            'ixii \         t' '\ i ......... "egi  i    i-<i iii .i
E.B.E          8882   9636  10112  10393  10691  10814  11126  11455  11799  12140
Fonds Drowres   10000
Emprunts       9625   3465   6000   4000
Total              28507  13101  16112  14393  10691  10814  11126  11455  11799  12140
Solde                1125   1158  -2181    362   4749   4698   4817   4979   5136   5292
Solde cumul      r  1125   2283    102    464   5213   9911  14728  19707 24843  30135
CASH Position       -8875   1158  -2181    362   4749   4698   4817   4979   5136   5292
CASH cumuli        -8875  -7717  -9898  -9536  -4787    -89   4728   9707  14843  20135
source: EDS-Eurexcel Feasibility study (December 1994)
(2) RISK ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION OF THE OPERATING FEE.
The financing plan of the pnrvate operator was established using the most probable value scenario for costs and
benefits. The main factor of risk for the private operator is related to the level of traffic that is expected, which
directly affects the Rate of Return on his investment. The feasibility study evaluated the average traffic for the
next ten years at 710 MTK, with a possible variation of +/- 160 MTK (23% of the average traffic).
Consequently, the risk for the private operator is substantial, and needs to be shared with the public authority.
This is to be achieved by the careful determination of an appropriate operating fee, paid by the private investor
to the Government for operating the railway freight services.
In order to determine the most incentive fee for both the private investor and the Government, a risk analysis
using Monte-Carlo techniques is presented below, using simple hypothesis (operating costs slightly correlated
to the level of traffic as most of them are fixed ; levels of traffic for each year correlated one to another ; the
working capital requirements are correlated to the level of traffic...). The level of traffic, and consequently the
Operating Surplus, (Excedent Brut d 'Exploitation in the Financing plan above), follows a normal probability
distribution, between 550 MTK and 870 MTK. The impact of the risk has been measured on:
- the Rate of Return of the private operator and
- the level of the operating fee.
Three scenarios have been considered:
72



1. The fee is fixed by the contract at a certain level (see Financing plan).
2. The fee is adjusted each year, as a function of traffic, to guarantee a Rate of Retum of 20% after
1 0 years for the private contractor.
3. The fee is related to the level of traffic, so that any variation on the traffic level will be passed half
on the Fee and, consequently, half on the surplus of the private operator.
First Scenario: The fee is fixed.
The simulation showed that the Rate of Return could vary from 6% to 34%, with a 30%
probability of being under 15%. As a result, the risk for the private operator is too important and is likely to
deter any investor from getting involved in the concession. The probability of having a rate of return greater
than 15% needs to be at least 90% (especially in Africa), to attract the private sector.
Second Scenario: The Fee is adjusted to a Rate of Return of 20%.
The level of Fee varies between CFA 900 million and CFA 3,360 million. The risk is transferred to the
Government, who could perceive a very low fee. More, this option doesn't reward the private operator for
achieving a performant management and commercial policy, as he would get the same rate of return
independently from its return. With no incentive, the former public monopoly would then become a private
monopoly.
Forecasts                         Rate of Return                 1,916 Trials Shown
.03                                                                      -59
.023               ....   .... ................... . 44.2
.m  .01   ------------------                       .  Is                     .  29.5 t 2
5 
I   .008                                                                      .14
7
.000                                                                -~    0
10%      1 %21%                                     2%        33%
Certainty Range Is from 15% to 27%
Third Scenario: The fee is a linear function of the traffic.
T'he probability of having a rate of return greater than 15% is now more 95%.
73



Forecast: Operating Fee
Frequency Chart                1,914 Trials Shown
.034                                                                      66
.026 -4 ......................5 .
Z% ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -q
-0  .017  - - - -  - - -  - -.                        .  . .  . .  . .   . ..33 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
.0og  ............                                             .5 ................  .5
.000  ,,,,p0                                           2750     -Fi     0 '
1250                          2250                            3250
Certainty Range is from 1590 to 2750
This scenario is a compromise between the previous ones, as each variation on the traffic is equally shared
by the operating fee and by the Operating surplus (i.e the Rate of Return). This will:
- mitigate the risks for both the private operator and the Government (see diagrams),
- thus, lower the risk reward expected by the private operator for making the initial investrnent,
- keep the incentive for him to serious management and dynamic comnnercial policy.
This method can help both parties determining the appropriate operating Fee, in accordance with their
expectations in terms of risks.
74



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 16: Key Financial Data and Timetable for the Privatization of CAMSHIP
and CAMTAINER
Table 1: CAMSHIP. Cargo share: 35%. Devaluation on January 12, 1994.
199        192     1993      1"994       99    I 196       1997    1 ns        1999      2000     2001      20(H2      21103      2004
Totalrmp.ooC(WAC(tors)                 628314   532481   513844   479 160  436275   419042   407937   404 062   407092   417471  435216  456977    477541    496642
  CAMSIIIP                            20,2 5 %    29,06,I%    26,315   35.00%   35,00%6   3 5,0'(1    35,00%    35,0096   35.00%   35,100%   3 5.00%   3500%    35,001 0  3 5,0-0%
Freighl Rale (CFAF)                     29599    32899    35800    32 988    32988    33482    33985    34494    35012    75.537    36f07(    36 611             37 160     37718
I'olal expor COWAC (ton)               484 854  482 950  460 262  451 517  450 162  462 317  481 734  501 967   523 050  545 018   567 908   590 62s   613 1069    636 365
%CANISHIIP                             32,47%N,  26,62%    23,25%    35,00%    35,00%;   35,00%o   35,00%    35,00%    35,00%    15,00%.  35,00%    35,00%.    35,00%o    150,0(%
Feight (CFAF)                           22.393    22689    22600    23.000    23.345    23f695    24051    24411    24778    25 149    255226    259(19          26.298     26.692
Nb. of iner trips                           45        39        37        48        48        48        48        48        48        48        48        48         48         48
Costper trip (CFAF million)                125       128       128       115       117      li1        120       122       124       126       128       130        131        131
Nb of vessclsIos.od (sccno Il)               2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2          2          2
Nb of vessels ossed (scerio 2)               2         2         2         2         2         2         2         0         0         0         0         0          0          o
Cost per owed vessel (CFAF million)        673       838       781       781       793       805       817       829       841       854       867       880        893        906
Nb of vess chanered(scenarin 1)              2         I         I         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2          2          2
Nb of vessels chanueed (cenario 2            2         1         1         2         2         2         2         4         4         4         4         4          4          4
Cost er vessel charteted (CFAF million)    569       706       720       720       731       742       753       764       776       787       799       811        823        836
TotAl impot SIEWAC (tons)              210.837    81760    78.898    73.572    66988    64342    62.637    62.042    62507    64 101   66825    70.166           73324      76f257
o CAMSIIIP                            15,27%    35,86%    45,4510.  45,00%o   45,00-6   45,00%    45,00%    45,00%    4500% 4500          45,00%    45,00%6    4 5,00%e    4 5.0000
l iner traffic(lons)                    15260    17 554    24 152    33 108    30144    28954    2818 6    27919    28 12         28845    30071    31 575       32996      14316
SIMt,raflic (Ions)                      16.936    11 769    11 708         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0 o)
Slot freight rate (CFAY)                 6631      6631      6703      6703      6804      6906      7009      7 114     7221      7329      7439      7551       7 664      7779
Liner frcight ratc(CFAF)                44550    46.514    46.000    46000    46690    47.390    48.101    4s823    49555    50298    51.053    51.819           52s596     53.385
Total cportNMEWAC(loons)              400347   423 702   404 365   396682   395 492   406.170   423.229  441.005   459 527  47R6.27  498 93s   518.896    538614    559 081
o CAMSI IIP                           28,55%    27,76f%   25,14%6   35,00%o 35.00%6   35.000    35.00-6  35,006                       . 3,00' 6   35,OOOo   35,0006   35,0(1%  5,1100 6    35,00-
Lincetraalic (ion.s)                    13481    14622    14441    57879    57.462    57700    57670    57892    57875   1(10630   1017668   114654    121 559    128718
Slot teaffic (to..)                     31 590    22393    20288    14 000    14.000    17 50(    21 5(1(    29 5(10    16000         ()         0         ()         0          0
Tlmber rflwc(lons)                      69 244    80 684    66960    66960    66.961       66 96    66 960    66 961    66960    66 961    66 961    66 960      66 960     66 96(0
Slut freight rte(CFAI)                   6 611     6 631     6 703     6 703     6 804     6906      70119     7114      7221      7129      7 419     7 551      7 664      7 779
I ,moer Freight role (CFAV)            27 452    22.190    21.530    26 700    27 101    27 507    27 92(1   28 118    28 761    29 195    29 633    30 077      30 029     10 986
littcr reight r.tc (CFAI)              33.000    35.190    32500    225110    22838    23.180    23528    23881    24239    2461(2    243972    253-16          25726      26 112
Nh of lietr ips                             13        17        19        36        36        36        36        36        36        54        54        54         54         54
Cst ofl,.e trip (CFAF million)              55        5I        51        44        45        45        46        47        47        48        49        50         5(        5I
Cost of slo trip (CFAF)                     64        8s        69        38        39        50        70        90       113        l)         0         0          0           0
Cost oftimhertrip(CFAF)                    778       931       883       866       879       892       906       919       933       947       961       976        990       1005
Nb. of charfed vessels for lintr and slot    I         I         1         2         2         2         2         2         2         3         3         3          1           3
tnaffic                                    321       447       450       450       457       464       471       478       485       492       499       507        515        522
Cost ofchareeed vesel (CFAF)                 I         I         I         I         I         I         I         I         I         I         I         I           I
Nb of chotered vessels fr timber           557       765       765       725       736       747       758       769       781       793       805       817        829        841
Cost ofchaticred vessel (CFAF)                            ___ _-    _      _ =  =  __    _       .
75



Fiscal year closed on June 30   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    2002   2003    2004
Siot Faf "st + JK (CFAFmillion)              185     257      161     154      149      ISO     154      159     165      173     1 8      194     205      217
Petroleusmproducts (CFAF)                  4,054   3.673   4.605   4.700   4.771   4.842   4.915   4.988   5.063   5.139   5.216   5.295 5.374   5.455
Clinsker (CFAF)                            1,148     979      790     900      979     994   1.009   1.024   1.039   1 055   1.070   1.087   1.103   1.119
Othserrevensucs (CFAF)                       531     337      275     220      2 59    289      307      325     342      358     374      388     404      416
Nb of vessels owred for slot                   0        0       0        0       0        I                         I       I        I        I       I 
Cost per vessel owned (CFAF million)           0        0       0        0       0        0     774      786     797      809     821      834     846      859
Nb of vessels chartered for petrolecum         2        2       2        2       2        1                1        1I               I       I                 I
Cost of chartered vessel (CFAE million)    2631   2296    2600   2600    2639   2200            976      991    1005    1021    1036    1051    1067    1083
Nb of vessels charteTed for clinker            0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
Cost of chartercd vcsscl (CFAF million)    45         43       28       26      25       25      26       27      28       29       31      33       3       37
Annuaol growth of import (%)                                         -6,75     -.95   -3,95   -2,65   -095       0,75    2,55    4,25    5,00    4,50    4(
Aninual growth of export (%                                           19      0,0      2,70    4,20    4,20    4,220    4,0    4,0        4,00    3,80     3,8
Table 2: CAMSHIP. Income Statement- Scenario I: Renewal of owned vessels
(IFAF million)                           1991      1992     1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001       2002      20         2004
Revensues                                18.045   16 595   16.459   19.766   19.502   19.693   20 039   20.516   21 117    22.597    23,620  _24 732    25,847    26.976
O3perating costs otLer than for vessels   (7,789)  (7 401)  (7 442)  (8 769)  (8 900)  (9~044)  (9 198)  (9.356)  (9,519) (1(1 571) (10 571) (1(1731) (10.893) (11,058)
Opcrating costs for chsartcrcd vessels    (5.434)  (4.811)  (5 135)  (6 265)  (6.359)  (5 976)  (5.582)  (5.666)   5.751)   (6 329)   (6 424)   (6 521)   (6,619)   (6 718)
Operating costs for self-owned vesscls  (I1345)  (I 676)  (1 562)  (1.562)  (I55   (1,609)  -(L65 8)  (I1658)  (1.683)   (1.708)   (1 734)   (.760)   (L.786)  (83
Overhecad espenses                      (2 135)  (2.031)  (2 294)  (I 933)  (I 962)  (I1991)  (2 021)  (2.1052)  (2 0182)   (2.114)   (2 145)   (2 178)   (2.210)   (2.243)
Simar                                   ...(112~)            (112)               (132)..jj)   jj)    (147)    (157)    (166)    (174)    (183)    (190) (9)      (2006)    (212)
Operating income                        1.230    563       9870      1.125    564     _925        1.447    1.618    1.907    1.849       2.555      3.345     4.133      4.932
tntercst expenses                         (747)    (713)    (265)    (192)    (3(06)    (264)    (222)    (182)    (141)    (101)             (61)      (20)       (10)      (10)
OtAher expenses and revenucs                195       169      175    (150)    (ISO)    (300)    (300)    (300)    (300)    (30(0)    (300)    (300)                  0         0
Foreign cxchange loss                    (256)    (198)          0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0          0         00                   0
1)epreciation of foreign exchange loss    (ISO)    (151)    (147)          0         0        0
D)epreciation of vcsscls                  (958)    (955)    (8.43)    (589)    (589)    (589)    (589)    (869)  (1.149)   (1.149)           (560)    (560)    (560)    (560)
Depreciation of containers                (337)    (333)    (278)       (27)              (ISO)    (250)    (330)    (410)        (410)    (260)    (160)          (80)    (ISO)
Otherdepreciation                         (395)    (220)    (181)    (201)    (230)    (221)    (252)    (185)    (205)    (225)    (245)    (265)    (265)                 (265)
Surplus Almak and depreciation                                                              375    (15(1)    (ISO)       (75)
Other non-operating revenues          1(200)]    2791  2 779 1            171       181       181       19       19    I 420 1       201        221       221       251        251
Table 3: CAMSIIIP. Income Statement- Scenario 2: Self owned vessels non renewed
(tFAF million)                           1991      1992     1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1998      1999      2000       2001       2002      2003        2004
Revenues                                18 045   16 595   16 459   19 766   19.502   19 693   20.039   20.516   21.117   22,597    23 620    24.732    25 847               26.976
Opcrating costs oilier lirani Ijr vessels  (7 789)  (7 40)1)  (7.442)  (8 769)  (8 9(8)  (9 114)  (9 1 98)  ('9 356)  (9 519)  (1( 571)  (11(571)  (11)731)  (1(1 893)  (11 o58)
Opeating costs for chartered vessels   (5 434)  (4.81 1)  (5.135)  (6.265)  (6.359)  (5 976)  (5 582)  (7 195)  (73(12)  (7.904)   (81)23)   (8 143)   (8 265)    (8 389)
Olratiigr cosis for self-owned vessels  (I 345)  (I 676)  (1.562)  (L562)  (1.585)  (1.6019)  (I            II6I 9(                                   0          0           0
Overlhead expenses                     (2 135)  (2.031)  (2.294)  (I1933)  (1 962)  (1.991)  (2 021)  (2 052)  (2(182)  (2 114)   (2 145)   (2.178)   (2,210)    (2 243)
Simar                                   (112).   112L   f(112)    (112)    (132)    (147)    (157k    (166)    (174)    (183)             (1j0       (198)      (206)      (212)
Operating income                         1.230     563      9870      1.125     564       925      1.447    1.748    2.038       1.989     2.690      3.482      4.272       5.073
Intlerest expesses                      (747)    (713)    (265)    (192)    (31)6)    (264)    (222)    (182)    (141)           (lOt)      (61)       (2(0)      (I)))      (10)
Othier expenses and revenses              195      169       175     (ISO)    (ISO)    (31)0)    (300)    (3(X))   (3(X))    (300)          (300)     (30))        00
Foreign exchange loss                   (256)    (198)        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0          0          00                     0
D)epreciationi of foreign exchange loss   (ISO)    (151)    (147)       0        0 
D)epreciation of vessels                (958)    (955)    (843)    (589)    (589)    (589)    (589)    (589)    (589)    (589)             (589)        0          0 
D)epreciation of containers             (337)    (333)    (278)       (27)               (ISO)    (250)    (330)    (410)        (410)     (260)      (160)       (80)       (ISO)
Other depreciation                     __395)    (220)    (11        (201)    (230)    (221)    (252)    (185)    (205)    (225)           (245)      (265)      (265)       (265)
Surplus Almak and depreciation          ___    ___ ___    ______                          375      (ISO)    (150)    (75)        ___________ ____
Other non-operating revciiurs           (200)      279      2,779      17        18        18        19       19      1 ~420      20         22         22         25         25-
(CFAF million)                        9-91J   1992        1993    1994    1995      1996    1997    1998    1999     2000         2001      2002      2003       2004
IMPACT OF VIlE                     RATE                           1 865    I ~255    1.479   1 146   1.180    2.702    1.361    2.099    2873          3.642      4.307
D3EVALUJATION                       100%                       ___         __        __      ____      __                __        __        __      ______
NH;  INCOME BEFORE I-AX           (I1.617)   (I 559)   1.153    I 847        562    I 273      849   I 2 11    4 441    I 7.38    3 945    5 632       7.584-   8 981
l.as                                  192        184     181       217       215      2171   327       466  1I 710        669    1.519    2.1681   2.920          3458
NEt INCOME_ AF FER TAX            (1.809    (I 743)    972    1.630          348    1.057      52       75     2.731    1.069    2.426    3.464        4.664      5.523
76



(CFAF million)                  1991      1992   199"3   1994   1995  199"6   1997   1993   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004-
IMPACT OF THE            RATE                        1.265   1.255   1.479   L.146   789    2.029  685       1.421   2.193   2.960   3.623
DEVALUATION             100%                        _________I                        __    __                __              __
NET INCOMEHBEFORE TAX   (1.617)  (1.559)   1.15    1.847    562   1.273 I    49    410   3.076    369   2.572   4.255   6.202   7.594
Tax                                192       184    181    217    215    217~  327    226   1.184    249    990   1.638  2.388  2.924
NET INCOME AFTER TAX   ,(1.809), (173                 7    1.630    348   1.057 -522    185   1.892          121   1.582   2.617 _3.814   4.670
STATEMENT OF CASH-FLOWS
INTERNAL RA TE OF RE TURN                                7,35%
4rjFAFmallhon)                       1993       1994      1995      1996     1997       1998      1999      2000       2001       2002       2003       2004
Net income after tax                    972     1.630       348    1.057        522        185     1 892       121      1.582      2.617       3.814     4.670
Decpreciation and SIMAR               1.561       929       819       819     1.241      1.534     1.839      1.784     1.065        985         905       975
Provisions                              232      (71)        159      159        4 1      (71)       159        60         4 1      (71)         159        60
Interest expenses                      265        192       306       306       222        182       141       101        61          20          10        10
Investment                            (ISO)     (150)      (150)    (900)     (650)   (5.150)   (1.150)      (250)      (250)      (250)       (250)   (1.000)
Variation of short-term fuiancing                 752       752      605      (117)       (86)     (117)     (179)      (224)      (246)       (246)     (249)
needs
Residual value                                                                                                                                          10.975
Due to State from 1993 convention    (3.032)   __________                                                                                   ____
IMACT OF DEVALUATION               ____   (1.169)           650    (528)      (206)   (4,368)   (3.880)        792       634         441         545     9.732
CASH-FLOW before debt service         (152)       561      2.884    1.142      1.054   (7.775)   (5.117)    2.428       2.908      3.496       4.937    25.173
Debt service (Interest +Capital)      (318)    (1042)   (1L319)   (993)       (950)      (910)     (868)    (828)       (788)      (442)       (120)     (120)
CASI -FLOW after debt serice          (470)     (481)      1.565      149       104   (8.685)   (5.985)       1.600     2.120      3.054       4.817    25 053
Short-termn finanicing needs          3.381     7.399 16.021 494              5.8        5.307     5.1528    5.905      6 339       .1         7.295     7.780
STATEMENT OF CASH-FLOWS
INIJFRNAL RA IF, OF RETURN                             13,70%/
tITbAlFmillion)                    1993       1994      1995      1996   1997   1998   1999          2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Net income after tax               972        1.630     348        1.057   522    745      l.892     121       1.582    2.617    3.814    4.670
D)epreciation and SlNAR             1.561     929       819       819      1.241   1.254   1.839     1.784    1.065    985       905      975
P'rovisions                        232        (71)      1 59       159    4l      (71)    159        60       4l1      (71)      159      60
Interest expenses                  265        192       306       306    222       182    141        101      6 1       20       10       lO
Investment                         (ISO)      (ISO)     (ISO)     (900)  (650)  (650)  (I.1I50)   (250)    (250)    (250)    (250)    (1.000)
Variation of short-term financing             752       752       605    (117)  (104)  (117)         (179)    (224)    (246)    (246)    (249)
needs
Residuial value                                                                                                                           10.975
Due to State from 1993 convention   (3.032)
IMPACT OF DEVALUATION              ___ (1.169)   650              (528)  (206)  (161)   59           232      74        (19      (5       3.827
CASI I-FL1OW before debt service    (152)     561       2.884      1.142   1.054   1.195   3.602     2.256    2.632    3.223    4.667    14.219
Dcbt serice (Interest +Capital)    (318)      (1042)   (1.319)   (993)  (950)  (910)  (868)          (828)    (788)   (442)    (120)    (120)
CASI I-FLOW afler debt service     (470)      (481)     1.565      149     104    285    2.734       1.428    1.844    2.78l    4.547    14.099
Short-termn financing nceds       I3.381      7.399     6.021     4.941   5.148   5.338   5.559      5.936    6.371    6.849   7.328    7.813
77



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 16: Key Financial Data and Timetable for Privatization of CAMSHIP and
CAMTAINER
II. CAMTAINER. Key Financial Data
With Conversion of Arrears
Cash-flow stiatmnt        Ju_ 93    1993/94    194195    1995/96    1996/97    1997/91            199/99    1999/00    2000/01    2001102    2002/03    JuIL 03
Cah-Flow before debt            42         334         132          87          181        -221         303         531         266         29B         315         1888
Own resources                  0
iterest expenta                0          .31         -16         -8          -2           0           0            0           0           0           0
Anean DEGOIFU (93-94)         290         0
Debt service                  -293       -234        -347         -77         49           0           0            0           0           0           0
Netaslh-flow                    39         69         -181          2          130         -221         303         531         266         298         315         1888
Balace Shed            Ju   93    1993/94    194/95    1995/6    1996/97    1997/               199I /      1999/00    2000t01    2001/02    2002/03
Fixed as_s                     541         338         431         602         737         1254        1210         948         979         994         1027
Acouintsreceivabk and          1299       1332        1770         1939        2059        2174        2284        2390        2492        2587         2685
inventories
Minimum cash                   150         152         199         228         243         253         262          274         287         298         312
Cuh in excess                   39         291         297         305         434         213          517        1048         1314        1611        1927
TolaueLs/Iiabilities:          2029       2163        2697        3074         3473        3895        4273        4661         5072        5490        5951
Equities                     777         946         1138        1462        1819        2151        2445        2751         3085        3430        3815
Mid-teFM debt                 183        119          126         49           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
Accounts payable            1072         1 097       1433      1563           1655        1744        1828        1910        1987        3060        2136
Net incoe/equity           I  81%    1 89%            90%          97%        100%         100%        100%        100%        1000/o      100%         100%
78



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 17: Benefits Resulting from the Privatization of Transport Public Enterprises
Impact of Restructuring on the Treasury
CFAF         US$
:__:__::___-__-__:::__i__:__-:___:   (m illions)  (m illion)  _ _
1994-1995                    Impact on Treasury of            94,352       171.5
Restructuring (a)
Impact on Treasury wvithout     62,492       113.6
restructuring (b)
Nct "Investment" in             31,860       57.9
restructuring (c) = (a) - (b)
1996-1998                    Impact on Treasury of            27,297       49.6
Restructuring (d)
Impact on Treasury without      60,369       109.7
restructuring (e)
Net payback on investment       33,072       60..1
during 1996-98 (f) = (e) - (d)
1994-1998                    Net payback as % of investment                           103.7
(g) = (Of: (c)
Impact on Treasury without     122.861       223.3
restructuring during 1994-98
79



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Impact of State Treasury of Restructuring Vs. Not Restructuring
(Post Devaluation)
US$ Million
1994      1995       Total      1996     1997      1998       Total       Total
1994195                                  1996/98     1994/96
OR ALL TRANSPORT SECTOR PE. COMBINED
ith Restructuring                       (93.6)     (78.0)    (171.5)   (22.0)   (17.3)      (10.4)      (49.6)     (221.2)
ithout Restructuring                    (79.9)     (33.7)    (113.7)   (63.4)   (25.9)      (20.5)     (109.8)    (223.4)
et Impact on State Treasury             (13.7)      (44.3)     (57.9)     41.4      8.6       10.1        60.1
Yr. Payback as a % of Initial Net Restructuring                                                        103.8%
Cost
OR EACH OF THE FOUR LARGEST PEs OF THE SECTOR
AMA[R
ith Restructuring (High Case)           (25.1)     (38.1)     (63.3)    (3.5)    (2.0)       (2.0)       (7.5)      (70.8)
ithout Restructuring                    (20.5)      (9.3)     (29.8)    (9.9)   (10.7)      (12.0)      (32.6)      (62.4)
et Impact on State Treasury              (4.6)      (28.8)     (33.5)      6.4      8.7       10.0        25.1
Yr. Payback as a % of Initial Net Restructuring                                                         75.0%
Cost
OTUC
ith Restructuring (High Case)           (11.3)     (19.4)     (30.8)    (3.1)    (2.7)       (2.6)       (8.5)      (39.2)
ithout Restructuring                     (2.6)      (9.4)     (12.0)   (38.8)     (2.7)      (2.6)      (44.1)      (56.1)
et Inpact on State Treasury               (8.7)     (10.1)     (18.8)     35.7      0.0          0        35.7
Yr. IPayback as a % of Initial Net Restructuring                                                       190.1%
Cost
EGIFERCAM
itih Restructuring (High Case)          (33.3)     (24.3)     (57.6)   (10.1)     (7.7)       4.4)      (22.1)      (79.7)
ithout Restructuring                    (32.0)     (20.5)     (52.5)   (11.8)     (9. 9)     (6.9)      (28.6)      (81.1)
et Impact on State Treasury              (1.3)       (3.9)      (5.1)      1.7      2.2        2.5         6.5
Yr. l ayback as a % of Initial Nct Restructuring                                                     126.0%%
Cost
AMSHIP/SIMAR
AMSH1P
ct Impact of Restructuring
Iready Initiated by Govt.               (21.3)        7.7      (13.6)    (1.0)     (0.8)       1.5       (0.2)      (13.8)
IMAR (Note I)
ct Impact of SIMAR Restructuring           0.0       (2.2)      (2.2)    (2.2)     (2.1)      (2.1)       (6.4)      (8.6)
Note 1: SIMAR, a 27% real estate subsidiary of CAMSHP, is insolvent; CAMSHIP is liable for its pro rata share of SIMAR debt.
80



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Impact of State Treasury of Restructuring Vs. Not Restructuring
(Post Devaluation)
CFAF Million
1994      1995      Total     1996    1997       1998       Total       Total
1994/95                                 1996/98    1994/96
OR ALL TRANSPORT SECTOR PEs COMBINED
ith Restructuring                    (51,460)   (42,892)   (94,352) (12,075)  (9,498)   (5,724)   (27,297)  (121,649)
ithout Restructuring                (43,948)   (18,544)   (62,492) (34,851) (14,224)  (11,294)   (60,369)  (122,861)
et Impact on State Treasury           (7,512)   (24,348)   (31,860)  22,776    4,726      5,570      33,072
Yr. Payback as a % of Initial Net Restructuring                                                     103.8%
Cost
OR EACH OF THE FOUR LARGEST PEs OF THE SECTOR
AMAIR
ith Restructuring (i-igh Case)       (13,832)   (20,958)   (34,790)  (1,910)  (1,110)   (1,111)    (4,131)   (38,921)
ithout Restructuring                (11,290)    (5,098)   (16,388)  (5,434)  (5,887)   (6,609)   (17,930)   (34,318)
et Impact on State 1Treasury          (2,542)   (15,860)   (18,402)   3,524    4,777      5,498      13,799
Yr. Payback as a % of Initial Nct Restructuring                                                      75.0%
Cost
OTUC
ith Restructuring (ligh Case)         (6,221)   (10,697)   (16,918)  (1,713)  (1,484)   (1,452)    (4,649)   (21,567)
ithout Restructuring                 (1,442)    (5,152)    (6,594) (21,343)  91,484)   (1,452)   (24,279)   (30,873)
et Impact on State Treasury           (4,779)    (5,545)   (10,324)  19,630        0          0      19,630
Yr. Payback as a % of Initial Nct Rcstructuring                                                     190.1%
Cost
EGIFERCAM
ith Restructuring (Iigh Case)       (18,321)   (13,384)   (31,705)  (5,538)  (4,218)   (2,396)   (12,152)   (43,857)
ithout Restricturing                 (17,619(   (11,255)   (28,874)  (6,485)  (5,452)   (3,782)   (15,719)   (44,593)
et Impact on State Treasury             (702)    (2,129)    (2,831)     947     1,234      1,386      3,567
Yr. Payback as a % of Initial Net Restructuring                                                     126.0%
Cost
AMSHIP/SIMAR
AMSHIP
et Impact of Restructuring
lreadyliiitiatedbyGovt.              (11,716)     4,217   (11,716)   (548)    (413)         845       (116)   (11,832)
[MAR (Note 1)
et Impact of SIMAR Restructuring           0    (1,202)    (1,202)  (1,187)  (1,177)   (1,168)    (3,532)    (4,734)
Note 1: SIMAR, a 27% real estate subsidiary of CAMSI IIP, is insolvent; CAMSHIP is liable for its pro rata share of SIMAR debt.
81



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedtile 18: Action Plan and Timetable for the Transit Component of the UDEAC
Transport Reform Program
To be implemented from a date to be determined
Ist quarter                   2nd quarter                      3rd quartcr                         4th quartcr
Meeting of the Rcgional     Starting technical assistancc                                     Mecting of the Regional Committee
Committee                   provided to the National
Committees
Choice of one or twvo pilot intenational
.Agreement on intemnational                                                                   itinieraries to implement the TI'PAC
itineraries                                                                                  system on the basis of the outcomiies of
Assessment of Nationlal    Analysis of proposals                                             tasks carried out during the thiird quarter
Committees                                                    Choice of the typc of logbook
.Distribution of Manual of                                    and guarantee documents.
Procedures for TIPAC,
training and discussion                                        Analysis of proposals made by
specialized consultants and
Missions of specialized     I.  Facilitation: TIPAC logbook    technical assistants
consultants                 2.  Telecommunication
2 I Definition of messages   .Adjustment of national
2 2 Choice of tectnical     regulatory frameworks
alternative
2.3 Procedures
3.  Preparation of the guarantee
system. Ilrofessionals aspects.
4.  Implementation of the
guarantee system. Customs aspects
5.  Technical agreement of
vehicles
6.  Hamtonization of transport
regulatory framework
7.  Road user charge._________________________________
5th quarter                   6th quartcr                     7th quarter                  8th quarter
Meeting of the Regional                                          Meeting of the Regional
Committee                                                        Committcc
. Assessment for the                  Progrcssivc cxtension to   . Assessment for the
implemcntation of the customs        the cntire UDEAC            implcmcntation of the
duty guarantcc systcm                                            customs duty guarantee
systcm
.Timetable for further steps
.Analysis of the need for
complemcntary measures
.Study of arrangements to
be included in the UDEAC
legal documcnts
82



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 19: Implementation Schedule of Transport Sector Reform Program
1994                           ins                                                   1996                                                   19
N       D   I        M AlMI            A   SO1  INID    I   F  IM   A   IM   IJ              J A S I       N7 ] ID   J F   MA    PA AM   J   J                    INID
SOTITC
CMUICAMFTAINER
Apporo ,tei of rtha fiosocrl mdvso--
Prrd.4p-rar,o f. ddo   dosoooso tir osoofsre ,,:                                                                                                                                     +
Drof tosoageoPes= rosatmot               4-....-. 
DraBf pi.o for toooro   f .e.odt sta!                                                    ~Ygif
C-_ __ lb,                                                                                                                                          I--'1 1
D,osol coo fo seplr.  of debts  sd tre
PTertos-to f   rdrdeostt
1rosuor o p-de for costfl .-f Usyoy-
Tre1ster of. motors       bs~
flprtoemo ofeicoes  o to~ sotoper- sroor
[sriseth-drroO pI   of debs mod  oosmo
P-dsl~rs or             ,g- ggd
CRqreto  otbaiddipdcoie
I,;,ttt poouroIIrteetoofrtooosrorrowmt                                                             
Ht sal P s  o s- rtroo  etsmdsorr              
S,ptd~stoealofc'eeso iecrsro   ~et
To-o-oosti h ofrrsodor  ot                                               -I
__h         _ .d f.-
PAotsIENtE  (R.   L._t7__                          irestmfre*
Read-,vhMtfdy
FropSTRLotofrirjrirtiap doSojeooI
Itiritiog_procedure~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~~~8



REPUBLIC OF CAMIEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECBNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 19: Implementation Schedule of Transport Sector Refborm Program
11994  1           1995                                              199  17
I D  IJ  IF  IM   |A   |M   I IJ | |S 1   |N   ID    J   IF  |M    A    |M   IJ   IJ   |A   15   1  IN   |D     J    IF   IM   |A   IM   |J     IJ|A   IS   |O    IN   ID
RESTRUrRiNGOFMINISTRY OFRANSFORT  1|rT1rrTTr                      :              TrLIr_                            r11 
nPOeRTc   rnJr                                                  ********==                 =___                    
Si_e  ql*U  f tr s_____      _______      ___X_C
HDtridr* p-d.d.     toin-                    _--_-       
.i& .-d ..                            .  .w L.X 
1'_S                                             1 7_                  - - ---  -"|   - -:a =        t
TASOT   REUtATORY FRAMEWORKC = t|_=====                               t              
|llwyibn oir             l      nils1 _____                                     ___ ll           _ll_   
R4-   =<===     1<    IVc I 1.,y
Pr-. ~     ~        ~        ..=       t   1==  f=III-  k_I   
o,b dl Slldynl IIn =w===X=_                 #                                                                   
Rao-  rrb Pirg d ofU i, u     d-m  r 1994 1 -                                           rI II II I I                          I
R.- of_ _k _d cX[ d-                                                   _-__' 1 1                              _ 1
-tt,, f. ft    I I ivi~~~~8



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 20: Expected Results and Timing for Key Projects Activities
Government        Scctor           Expected Results                                        Tiniing Targets   Responsibic
Objectives                                                                                                   Agency
Implementation of  CAMAIR          Creation of a new civil aviation company. Privatization of  December 1996    Ministry of
the first phase of                this company through: a management contract with dcferrcd                  Finance and MINT
the Transport                      privatization option or option.
Sector Reform                      Selection of the management tcam
l'rogram:
P'rivatization or  REGIFERCAM   Privatization of railway services for the concession       April 1997        Ministry of
liquidation of                     agreement. Selection of the concessionary company.                        Financc and MINT
priority
transport sector    SOTUC          Company liquidated.                                     October 1995      Ministry of
public enterprises.                 .                                                                        Finanec and MINT
CAMSHIP         Sale of public participation in the equity or liquidation.  November 1995    Ministry of
Finance and MINT
CAMTAINER    Sale of public participation in the equity or liquidation.  October 1995     Ministry of
Adoption of restructuring plan.                         November 1995    Finance and MINT
MINT            Adoption of restructuring plan.                         Novcmber 1995    Ministry of Civil
MINT restructured to focus on planning, regulation and  lune 1996        Serviec and MINT
policv.
IPreparation of   Road             Adoption of restructuring plan.                         November 1995    Ministry of Civil
following phascs of Maintenance    MINTP restructured by shifting road maintenance execution   June 1996     Service and
the Transport                     from force account to private contractors.                                 MINTP
Sector Reform                      Bids launched for exccution of the road maintenance work  November 1995    MINTP
Plrogram                           program.
Pluri-annual road maintenance programming system       Septembcr 1995   idem
implemented in MINT P.
Sustainabie financing mechanism for road maintenanec.   July 1995         idem
Plort           Decision on organization for dredging.                  December 1995    MINT and ONI'C
Operational and financial restructuring of the management of  June 1996  idem
the Port Authority.
Implementation of an efficiency-driven organization for  July 1995       idem
dredginit.
1Transit        Customs computerized information system rclocatcd in a  February 1996     Ministry of
facilitation    safec cnvironment.                                                        Financc
Bids launched for system rewriting/purchase.           January 1996      idcm
MATGENIE        Company rcstructured and prepared for privatization.    Junc 1996         Ministry of
Financc and
MINTP
LABOGENIE    Company rcstructured and prepared for privatization.       June 1996         Ministry of
Financc and
MINTP
Maritimc        Legal documcnts approvcd for the rcstructuring of the   Deccmber 1995    MINT
transport       Shippers' Council.
Lcgal documcnts approved for the liberalization of maritime   June 1995   MINT
transport.
Urban           Legal documcnts approved for the liberalization.        Junc 1995         MINT
transport
Air transport    Legal documcnts approved for the liberalization.       Junc 1995         MINT
Road and rail    Lcgal documcnts approved for the liberalization.       JIune 1995        MIN T
transport
PlIP           Plromulgation of the Loi de Financcs" including a lPublic  Scptember 1995   Ministry of
Investmcnt Program for public works and transport.      Scptember 1996   Financc, MINTand
Scptember 1997   MINTIP
85



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 21: List of Project Activities and Procurement Procedures
Activity                                                              Cost         Donor   Procurement
US$ '000             Method
Support to Institutional Development                                                        Mh
Strengthening of the unit in charge of privatization in MINEFI              212       IDA*               SS
Strengthening of the unit in charge of privatization in MINEFI              215       IDA*               SL
Financial advisor for the privatization of CAMAIR                           913        IDA               SL
Financial advisor for the privatization of CAMSHIP and CAMTAINER            266        IDA               SL
Financial advisor for the privatization of REGIFERCAM                       589        IDA               SL
Liquidator of SOTUC                                                         187       IDA*               SL
Assistance to the monitoring committee for the liquidation of SOTUC           65      IDA*               SS
Financial and operational management of ONPC                                267        IDA               SL
Restructuring of MATGENIE                                                   129        IDA               SL
Restructuring of LABOGENIE                                                  129         IDA              SL
Support to the coordination of road maintenance activities                    26      IDA                SS
Support to the organization and financing of rural road maintenance           71       IDA               SL
Support to the restructuring of CNCC                                         43         IDA              SL
Short-term assistance to the TICU                                           137         IDA              SS
Assistance to MINT                                                          815        FAC
Support to implementation of TIPAC                                         1,671        EU
Assistance to regional committees                                           308         EU
Assistance to national committees                                          3,493         EU
Support to the coordination of road maintenance activities                  1 77        EU
Restructuring of MATGENIE                                                   214          EU_       _
Restructuring of LABOGENIE                                           |       146         EU1
Sub-total                                                                 10,073           l
Institutional Development Studies
Restructuring of MINTP                                                      399       IDA                SL
Organization of dredging                                                      90        IDA              SL
Creation of a Road Fund                                                       57      IDA'               SL
Simplification and harmonization of the road tax system                      143      IDA*               SL
Capability of local transport consultants                                     13        IDA              SS
Operational and financial management audit of CAMAIR                        270       IDA*               SS
Institutional study of urban transport                                        66      IDA*               SL
Plan of action for road safety                                                35      IDA                SL
Restructuring of MINT                                                       251        FAC
Reduction of Douala port costs                                               143       FAC
Sub-total                                                                  1,467
Policy Support                                                                  I
Support to urban transport privatization and liberalization                   84      IDA*               SS
Regional logistic costs study                                                155        IDA              SL
Transport sector review                                                       87      IDA*               SS
Legal adviser for the liberalization of air transport                         58       FAG
Legal adviser for the liberalization of maritime transport                    96       FAC
Sub-total                                                                   480
86



Activity                                                                 Cost         Donor  Procurement
US$,000            | Method
Project Preparation
Support to the irrprovement of the custors conputerized information system  j  159        IDA
Relocation of the customs computerized information system                      319        IDA              SL
Study of insurance system and organization of the TIPAC                        159        IDA              SL
Establishment of a prograrnimng system for earth road maintenance              583       IDA*              SL
Mitigation plan for environmental issues in road maintenance            j       20        IDA              Sl
Engineering studies of a priority earth road maintenance program               298        IDA              SL
Engineering studies of a priority paved road maintenance program               638        IDA              SL
Feasibility studies of the program of rehabilitation of he railway track  |     60        IDA              SL
Feasibility studies of the railway telecorrnunication program           !      1521       IDA              SL
Continuation of computerization of vehicle certification                       652        IDA
Pilot operation for monitoring loads of trucks                                 187        IDA
Engineering study for the rehabilitation of ONPC's dredger                      53        IDA              SL
Study for the relocation of the dry-yard                                !      126        IDA              SL
Analysis of dredging materials                                                  42        IDA              Sl
Audit of transport public enterprises                                          441        IDA              SL
Establishrnent of project accounting                                    j       68        IDA              SL
Project audits                                                                 114      IDA*               SL
Project accountant in the Transport Interninisterial Coordination Unit          1 1       IDA              Ss
Monitoring of bridges' condition                                               102       FAC
Creation of a road data base                                            I       75       FAC
Establishment of a programrning system for paved road maintenance              523       BMZ _
Sub-total                                                                    4,782           I
Training and seminars                                                    _
Road maintenance initiative                                                      7       IDA^              SS
Supervision of road maintenance works                                   1      288        IDAj             SL
Procurerrent for road mnaintenance                                             185|      IDA|              SL
Transport lnterrrinisterial Coordination Unit                                   93i       IDAI
Environmental issues in road maintenance                                        96F       IDA!             SL
Young professionals program                                                    163        IDA              Ss
Training for the civil aviation sector                                          62       FAC
Training for the maritime sector                                        1       94       FAC
Training for the meteo sector                                                   19       FAC
Other training                                                                  471      FAC
Semnar on the liberalization of urban transport                                 96       FAC
Serrinar of MINT restructuring                                                  57       FAC
Irrplermentation of TIPAC                                                      370         EU
Sub-total                                                                     1,577
Goods                                                                   E
Vehicles                                                                       111        IDA             LCB
Corrputers                                                                     101        IDA             LCB
Creation of a road documentation center                                         90       FAC         Shopping
Office supplies                                                                103       FAC
Teleconrnunication equipmrent                                                  899         EU
Sub-total                                                                    1,304
Operating Costs
Road-show for the privatization                                                 81        IDA              Ss
Support staff in Coordination Unrt                                              54        IDA              SS
Operating costs of TICU under PPF                                               99       IDA*        Shopping
Operating costs of TICU after project launch                                   207        IDA        Shopping
Support staff in TICU                                                   ,       80       FAC
Sub-total                                                                      5211
TOTAL                                                                   1  20,2031           l
Costs include physical and price contingencies                           _
SL: Short-list; SS: Direct contracting; LCB: Local corrpetitive biddingF
IDA*: Activities completed or or-going under PPF financing.             I
87



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 22: Guidelines for Preparing Training Activities
1.    Participation of Local Counterparts in Studies.  Training activities should aim at
making trained staff capable of using in their position the experience gained through participation
in studies. This objective will be included in the terms of reference of consultants. Training will
be carried out either through the execution of specific tasks by the local counterparts according to
terms of reference, or through more formal training carried out by the consultants to explain the
methodology and tasks carried out under the study. A report will be prepared by the counterparts
for tasks executed by them. Consultants' proposals should include the time necessary to train
counterparts during execution of studies, and the corresponding budget. Training efficiency will
be assessed during the discussions and seminars held during project execution, where counterparts
will have to present conclusions and recommendations of studies. Counterparts will also have to
prepare summaries of studies.  The project coordinator will monitor resources allocated to
training.
2.     Preparation of Training Activities. During project execution, training activities should
aim at increased staff productivity and ability to deliver services. Training will be defined after
identifying tasks and responsibilities that ministry staff or group of staff are not able to execute or
fulfill because of lack of competencies. The training program should be designed to respond to:
(a)    Individual staff needs. Such training activities should be limited because of their
cost and the difficulty of clearly identifying training requirements and priorities.
(b)    Group needs.  This maximizes the productivity of resources invested in the
program, and should be the priority.
3.    Training sites should be first in the country of the Borrower, either on the work site, or in
local training centers. When training requirements cannot be achieved in the country, training
should be considered in a regional training center, and, as a last resort, in another continent. In the
latter case, it should be clearly demonstrated that the training is in accordance with project
objectives, and does not interfere with work execution and responsibilities of trained staff during
project execution.
4.     Training plans will be prepared for one year, and submitted to the Bank as well as their
cost, for no-objection at least one month before they start. Per diem will be paid on the basis of
UNDP tariffs. The Government will bear the balance in excess with actual expenditures.
88



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 23: Detailed Project Costs
1. Base Costs
CFA million                    US$'000
Project Component        Local  Foreign    Taxes  Total   Local  Foreign   Taxes  Total
1. Goods                   113        482    251      845    219        936    487    1,642
2. Consultant Services
and Studies
(a) Support to            1,250     3,728    821    5,798   2,427      7,238   1,595   11,259
Institutional Development
(b) Institutional           180       546    119      845    349       1,060    232    1,641
Development Studies
(c) Policy Support          47        189      39     275      92        367     76      535
(d) Project                889       1,423    382    2,693   1,726     2,763    741   5,230
Implementation and
Preparation
3. Training and Seminars    221       564    130      915    430       1,095    252    1,777
4. Operating Costs          129       128      47     304    250         248     92      590
Total                     2,829     7,059   1,790   11,678   5,493    13,707  3,475  22,675
2. Costs Including Contingencies
CFA million                 US$'000
Project Component        Local  Foreign    Taxes  Total   Local  Foreign    Taxes  Total
1. Goods                   134        538    283      955    260       1,045    549    1,854
2. Consultant Services
and Studies
(a) Support to            1,354     3,833    856   6,043   2,630       7,442   1,662   11,734
Institutional Development
(b) Institutional          192        564    125      881    373       1,095    242    1,710
Development Studies
(c) Policy Support          51        196      41     287      99        380      79      558
(d) Project                978       1,485    406   2,869   1,899      2,883    789    5,571
Implementation and
Preparation
3. Training and Seminars    238       573    134       946    463       1,113    260    1,836
4. Operating Costs          138       131      50      319    268        254      98      619
Total                     3,086      7,319   1,895   12,299  5,992     14,211   3,679   23,882
89



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 24: Implementation Schedule
Activity                                                      Start of Activity *    End of Activity
Support to Institutional Development
Strengthening of the unit in charge of privatization in MINEFI  April 1995        April 1996
Financial advisor for the privatization of air services       January 1995        December 1996
Financial advisor for the privatization of railway services   January 1995        April 1997
Financial advisor for the privatization of CAMSHIP/CAMTAINER   January 1995       November 1995
Liquidator of SOTUC                                           December 1994       October 1995
Assistance to the liquidation monitoring committce            January 1995        January 1996
Reorganization of operational and financial management of ONPC    April 1995      September 1996
Restructuring of MATGENIE                                     April 1995          June 1997
Restructuring of LABOGENIE                                    April 1995          June 1996
Support to coordination of road maintenance activities        April 1995          April 1996
Institutional Development Studies
Financial and operational evaluation of CAMAIR                December 1993       July 1994
Restructuring of MINTP                                        June 1994           September 1995
Restructuring of MINT                                         March 1995          September 1995
Studv of dredging reorganization                              March 1995          November 1995
Study of a Road Fund                                          Fcbruary 1995       June 1995
Support to organization and financing of rural road maintenance  April 1995       December 1995
Study of the Road taxation system                             June 1994           December 1994
Studv of road safety                                          March 1994          September 1994
Institutional study of urban transport                        October 1993        March 1994
Capability of local consultants                               April 1995          June 1995
Reduction of transport costs at Douala port                   June 1995           December 1995
Policy Support
Assistance to the liberalization of urban transport           February 1995       July 1995
Studv of the costs of the international chain of transport    March 1995          January 1996
Scninars on the restructuring of CNCC                        January 1993        December 1994
T'ransport sector review and short-tcrm missions of experts   March 1991          June 1994
Project Implementation and Preparation
Audit of the computerized customs information system          June 1995           February 1996
Relocation of the computerized customs information system     July 1995           February 1996
Study of the insurance system                                 April 1995          December 1995
Earth road maintenancc programming study                      June 1994           September 1995
Paved road maintcnancc programming study                      January 1995        June 1995
Environmental considerations in road maintenance w,vorks      April 1995          September 1995
Detailed engineering studies of a road maintenance priority program  June 1995    November 1995
Analysis of dredging materials                                March 1995          October 1995
Study of the relocation of the dry-dock                       March 1995          December 1995
Study of the port dredger's rehabilitation                    March 1995          October 1995
Continuation of computerization of vehicle certification      March 1995          June 1996
Pilot operation to monitor loads of trucks                    June 1995           October 1995
Projcct accountant in TICU                                    April 1995          March 1997
Audit of public cnterprises                                   April 1995          December 1995
Project audits                                                April 1995          June 1998
Establishment of projcct accountings                          September 1995      December 1995
* includes procurement
90



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Schedule 25: Supervision Plan
Activity            Skill                                Staff-            Weeks
Headquarters         Mission
1995        Procurement         Privatization specialist              0.5
Semester I  Review of           Port specialist                       0.5                1.0
activities' progress   Road maintenance specialist        0.5                1.0
Civil aviation specialist            0.5
Railway specialist                   0.5
Transit transport specialist         0.5
Project management                   5.0                1.0
1995        Procurement         Privatization specialist              0.5
Semester 2  Review of            Port specialist                      0.5
activities' progress   Road maintenance specialist        0.5
Civil aviation specialist            0.5                1.0
Railwav specialist                   0.5                1.0
Transit transport specialist         0.5
Project management                   5.0                1.0
1996        Procurement         Privatization spccialist              0.5
Scmcster I  Review of            Port specialist                      0.5                1.0
activities' progress   Road maintenance specialist        0.5                1 .0
Civil aviation specialist            0.5
Railway specialist                   0.5
Transit transport specialist         0.5
Project management                   5.0                1.0
1996        Revicw of           Privatization spccialist              0.5
Scmester 2  activities' progress   Port specialist                    0.5
Road maintenance specialist          0.5
Civil aviation specialist            0.5                1.0
Railway specialist                   0.5                1.0
Transit transport specialist         0.5
Project management                   3.0                1.0
1997        Review of           Project managcment                    3.0                1.0
Semester I  activities' progress
TOTAL                                                                 33.0               13.0
91






UDEAC
REGIONAL POLICY REFORM PROGRAM
TRANSPORT FACILITATION COMPONENT
Infrastructure Communication Links
)O RDCHAD                 C
N  J    (s    Ewf  ~CENR 
C   r   oO5v C  \+t~~~~RICA  ULIC 
bo)  ;.nde   \ i            ^         
ER. NE                               M  
LibrevilltN                                                                 1 992
FortC  7      CNGO 
o    ABON    
o,\Bterazzaville/r    
MAJOR ROADS     ()     NATIONAL CAPITALS
- -....  RAILROADS             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RIVERS           =s    MAJOR PORTS
November 1 992






RMALI                                                                                                                    Lake Chad
BURK A                                 ' HAD                           II,,, ea  a,,, pE- .,P  -
PASO                                                                  beT Wd'pd Ba. , WE.
NIGERIA                       7                          - I,.a          td                        le.,
,-f   CENTRAL AFRICAN                             --wape,pl, -lh .. 
I    \    CHAD
GOINOTOAL  -         ON G          ZAIRE
AT..AT.IC OCEWAN    GSNJ~,IN                                              O     a
CAMEROON                                                                       .     MoLol          Aag.o
PRIORITY ROAD NETWORK                                                                       )- al
PAVED ROADS>
PAVED ROADS                                   SELECTED TOWNS                               /1
-    PRIORITY I          0~~~~~~ PROVINCE CAPITALS
-           PRIOR TY 2*                   NATIONAL CAPITAL)
-           PR,ORITT 2                   UNPAVED ROADS 
Pal,    ~ ~    M, ~,DI,erdloaE
-     RAILROADS                                                                      ole
PRYNCR BOUNDARIESI
-.-   INTERNATIONAL BOTINDAR ES              (9Mage                                               E'I-
/     IpOEP,             *,S ~~NGOAUNDERT E__
aTJO-be              8-*Pap    M.yoaba                         aoa
NIlGERIA                    W       ED"-Tba                                                     
I  Np       D~~3,oPa6       ~-                                                                                              AFRICAN
-  -  -           RARO~~~usSA                                       -REPUBLIC
I~               \   opN-9.
~~  f    NkAoasoneaa                                 Narga                   eloboB.fi
b                                                          ~~~~~~~                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Aban.NeIg  \G-ey..I.
DOULALA                /SCNEpMa
EQUATORIAL                           y                   bkaa - ,-                                        ob                         -
GUINEA                                EB~~~Ep  TOEDWA 0      aaeoa         5,o      -      -
ATLANTIC
OCEAN                                              M.1 ... -.
EQUATORIALl;AO
GUINEA                     GABO






MALI                      -             -           F                                                                                L,,L,e Ch,od
NrOEB                      ~~~~~SUDAN
PURI7rNA                         '    /    / CHAD                              T h, .,p  ,ssLw1prsMe  
""5'   0i'                                                                      LNBttFVeI eey  'lo r   rI    
NIGERIA           K                                          ,, ,4y -        n                        p,,roIo,             \GpAIlry
o   /U   ~    2                       CENTRAL AFRICAN                                     w
REPUBLIC  .                     ,,I hI, AL AF Il,                                     *
)CAMEROON               /    --                                 r                                               * ROLLR{             (ThAF)
EQIUATORARE JL
GUrNLA             /CONGO           ZAIRE                                                                           .           . 
GABON                                                                                                O
CAMEROON
PRIORITY ROAD NETWORK                                                                                                                 ong
EARTH ROADS                                                                        ,                    _e
EARTH ROADS                                        SELECTED TOWNS                            \f RO,rA
|EPRIOR Tr I             3      PROVINCE CAPITALS
PRIORITY 2                       NATIONAl CAPITAL
PR,ORITY 3                       EARTH ROADS OUT Of PRIORITY NETWORK       j
PAVED ROADS                                         LV
RAILROADS
RIVERS
PRCOSNCE BOUNDARIES                             EKo-Ic1 Th.oANO
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                     /                                ,                                            .
9."g.~7
.         /            WJT ~~~~~~~~~.  /   1SoFy        oIcbA          Aose,SoAI                         .
Nben\g        NA_
I RACO,            YCENITA.L
DU2g >s  hoen         >S,  Pol,bor           Nd ,o,n,2>.                                        NAoROuA            (               AF{ RICANl  tX
/      Ng1,A  .'         JT         RAFOUSSAM                                                             ,.     /           /f)  !0'   -
Nd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~AA
r_________________  __,.,.____  ______   __
EQUATORIALLJTOFIA  \                                          ~             BO I                              Or  0                         .  -
Ng 11                                     [ogneh( 
OL EAN   \          _     _        /         ~                 *     ~      ~        _       -      -     X-.h,,,  Ebay r
,EQUATORIA!L7 nou                                                                                                        (:2   ( 
U                                   ,E      GUNEA                 Fj                                                                                   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                   I



