Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No20044
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2703-CM)
February 14,2000
Transport Group 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   CFA Franc (FCFA)
US$ 1   1995    =   518.6
1997            =   541.1
1999            =   630.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July01 - June30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMZ             =   Bundesministerium fur Zusammenarbeit (German Ministry for Cooperation)
CAMAIR          =   Cameroon Airlines
CAMSHIP         =   Cameroon Shipping Lines
CAMTAINER    =   Societe Nationale de Transport et de Transit du Cameroun
(Cameroon Container Transport and Freight Forwarder Company)
CAS             =   Country Assistance Strategy
CNCC            =   Conseil National des Chargeurs du Cameroun (Cameroon National Shippers'
Council)
EU              =   European Union
FAC             =   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Cooperation Fund)
GNP             =   Gross National Product
GOC             =   Government of Cameroon
IDA             =   International Development Association
IMF             =   International Monetary Fund
LABOGENIE       =   Laboratoire National de Genie Civil (National Road Laboratory)
MATGENIE        =   Parc National de Materiels de Genie Civil (Equipment Pool)
MINT            =   Ministere des Transports (Ministry of Transport)
MINTP           =   Minist&re des Travaux Publics (Ministry of Public Works)
ONPC            =   Office National des Ports du Cameroun (Cameroon National Port Authority)
PE              =   Public Enterprise
REGIFERCAM    =   Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun (Carneroon National railway
Corporation)
SAC             =   Structural Adjustment Credit
SAR             =   Staff Appraisal Report
SOCAMAC         =   Socitai d'Amenagement et de Manutention du Cameroun (Port Handling Co. of
Cameroon)
SOTUC           =   Societe de Transport Urbain du Cameroun (Urban Public Transport Company)
TSP             =   Transport Sector Project
TSTAP           =   Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project
Vice President:                Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director:              Serge Michailof, AFC07
Sector Manager:                Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, AFTT2
Team Leader:                   Abdelghani Inal, AFTT2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2703-CM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
PREFACE                                                                iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                     iv
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                             1
A.       Project of objectives                                  2
B.       Achievement of project objectives and components       3
C.       Major factors affecting the project                    5
D.       Project sustainability                                 6
E.       Bank performance                                       6
F.       Borrower performance                                   7
G.       Assessment of outcome                                  8
H.       Future operation                                       10
1.       Key lessons learned                                    10
PART H - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments                                12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits                    13
Table 3:  Project Timetable                                     14
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual   14
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation             15
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation                  16
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project                           16
Table 8A: Project Costs                                         17
Table 8B: Project Financing                                     17
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits                           18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement     18
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements         19
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                          19
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                              20
Annex 1: Status of Transport Sector TA Program Objectives       21
APPENDICES
A.       Borrower ' s Contribution to the ICR                   22
B.       Summary of Report from the Government                  28
B.       Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire                      29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECBNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 2703-CM
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Sector Technical
Assistance Project in Cameroon, for which Credit 2703-CM in the amount of SDR 6.9
million (US$9.7million equivalent) was approved on June 29, 1995, and made effective on
December 19, 1995.
The original closing date was June 30, 1998. The credit was extended for one year
and closed on June 30, 1999. Ninety-one percent of the credit was disbursed and the last
disbursement was made on December 22, 1999. The balance of SDR 0.62 million
(US$0.85 million) was cancelled. Co-financing for the project was provided by the
European Union (EU), French Cooperation Fund (FAC), and Bundesministerium fur
Zusammenarbeit (German Ministry for Cooperation, BMZ).
The ICR was prepared by Elizabeth Rankin (Consultant), Farida Khan (Operations
Analyst) of the Transport Unit 2, Africa Region, Kingson Apara, (Transport Specialist and
previous Task Team Leader for the Project), and was reviewed by Abdelghani Inal (Senior
Highway Engineer, Task Team Leader). It is based on materials in the project files. The
outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision/completion
mission in May 1999. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own
evaluation of project implementation (a summary is attached to the ICR as Appendix B)
and by commenting on the draft ICR. Comments were requested from the co-financiers,
the World Bank's Cameroon Country Team, the team that appraised and supervised the
Project, and their comments are incorporated in this ICR.
iii






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2703-CM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Cameroon's per capita income declined dramatically since the mid-1980s and
began to recover only recently. In 1999 it was estimated at US$650 (half of what it was in
the mid-80s). From a negative growth rate in the early 1990s Cameroon's GNP improved
to register a 5% growth during 1997-98. Buoyed by oil production, the Government had
failed to introduce fiscal and economic reforms and improve public sector management.
Weak management and institutions caused the transport sector to have a negative impact
on economic performance. The Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project (TSTAP)
was preceded by a comprehensive Transport Sector Strategy Memorandum in 1994 to
develop the framework for a new transport reform program and to address sector issues.
No technical assistance (TA) was envisioned but rather a hybrid transport sector
adjustment project to support structural reforms. The TA program, initially conceived as
part of the planed transport adjustment project, became a separate operation in 1994. It
replaced the adjustment project because resources were required for further sector work
and reforms were needed to strengthen the basis for the proposed reforrn programs. An
investment project, the Transport Sector Project (TSP), was approved later in May 1996.
Project Objectives
2.    The main project objectives were to support Government efforts to: (a) launch the
transport sector reform program, which would result in the creation of a new private civil
aviation company, private operation of rail services, liquidation of the urban bus company,
sale of public shares in the Cameroon Shipping Lines (CAMSHIP) and in the Cameroon
Container Transport and Freight Forwarder Company (CAMTArNER), restructuring of the
Ministry of Transport (MINT), and reform of the regulatory framework for air, urban, and
maritime transport; and (b) continue preparation of the subsequent phases which would
result in: (i) restructuring of the Ministry of Public Works (MINTP); execution by contract
of most of the road maintenance work program; and implementation of a pluri-annual
programming system, as well as a sustainable financing mechanism for road maintenance;
(ii) restructuring and down-sizing of the port authority; implementation of an efficiency-
driven organization for dredging; and (iii) an improved customs' institutional framework;
overhaul of the customs' computerized information system; and implementation of a new
international transit system.
iv



3.    To achieve these objectives, the project provided for consultants' services to
launch the transport sector reform program, mainly for: (a) preliminary analysis for the
privatization, sale or concession of the airline, railway company, shipping company,
CAMSHIP and CAMTAINER, and for liquidation of the urban bus company; (b) a study
to prepare restructuring of MINT; (c) revision of the regulatory framework for urban, air,
and maritime transport, including a study of regional logistical costs, and seminars. The
project also provided assistance in the preparation of the subsequent phases of the
transport sector reform program
4.    The project objectives were ambitious. The program embraced all aspects of the
transport sector, changing the regulatory frameworks for air, road, railway and maritime
transport; privatizing of PEs; restructuring of MINT, MINTP, and other public agencies;
introducing a road fund, maintenance programming and execution of works by contractors;
developing local capacity; and preparing new investment programs for roads, railway, and
ports. The project overestimated the Government's institutional capacity to implement
these reforms according to the agreed timetable. The project underestimated the
complexity of the program, the social aspects of downsizing the public sector supposed to
be addressed by the planed adjustment project, and the need for incentives.
5.    Three risks were identified during appraisal: (a) delays in execution because of
weak institutional capacity; (b) proceeding with studies ahead of effective commitment to
PE reform; and (c) lack of fairness and transparency in the privatization process. The first
risk did materialize, especially due to the lengthy procurement procedures and
implementation delays. The second risk materialized in the opposition to the privatization
of CAMAIR, and long delays in the port sector reforms. However the rapid liberalization
of urban transport should be mentioned. The social aspects were not addressed by the
project and this led to delays in decision making and implementation. These risks were
mitigated by the revision of the institutional framework for privatization, as part of the
Structural Adjustment Credit III (SACIII approved in June 1998); introduction of the port
sector reforms and establishment of the road maintenance fund as prerequisites for
disbursements; agreement with the IMF for inclusion of the cost of social aspects into the
State's operational budget; and preparation of a separate railway concession project.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Achievement of objectives. The project objectives were substantially achieved,
with the exception of the privatization of CAMAIR. Because these objectives relate
specifically to individual project components, the following discussion of the achievements
and shortfalls of the project objectives and of the subsequent phases of the transport sector
reform program identifies these as "O" or "P".
(a) Railway activities previously managed by the PE,REGIFERCAM (undergoing
liquidation), were effectively devolved to the private sector despite several difficulties
during the implementation and preparation of the need to prepare the railway
concession project. CAMRAIL has been operating the railway since April 1, 1999.
(0)
(b) Liberalization of urban transport and liquidation of the urban public bus company,
V



SOTUC, were achieved, with increased competition and cost reductions in urban
transport services in the major cities--Douala and Yaounde. (0)
(c) In maritime transport, increased efficiency and cost reductions were reported by
shippers; this is mainly the result of the implementation of a new law that: (i)
eliminates the protection of national vessels by abolishing cargo sharing; (ii)
dissolves the Government-owned National Shippers' Council (CNCC); and (iii)
abolishes certain levies initially imposed on exports and imports as a mechanism for
financing CNCC. Privatization of CAMSHIP was achieved and that of CAMTAINER
as well, given its majority ownership by CAMSHIP. (0)
(d) Although the reforms of the port sector are not yet completed, the measures taken thus
far have produced some reductions in port transaction costs and in clearing times. (P)
(e) The Road Maintenance objective, supported by SACHI, was fully achieved. The
project is expected to increase efficiency, reduce road maintenance costs, and secure
funds for maintenance. (P)
(f) Restructuring of MINT and MINTP has been slow and is continuing as part of the
TSP and SAC III projects. (0) and (P)
(g) Improvements in the customs clearance systems, notably through the establishment of
the single clearing window (the Guichet Unique) at the Douala port and an
autonomous Douala Port Authority, are expected to be achieved with the support of the
EU, the French Cooperation Fund and the SACIII project. (P)
(h) The privatization/liquidation of the civil aviation company was not achieved. In termns
of regulatory reform, air transport was only partially liberalized ;domestic air transport
was liberalized and the civil aviation code was revised, introducing "open skies" but
in practice, regional and long-haul services are still govemed by bilateral accords. (0)
(i) Improvement of the international transit system was only partially achieved. It is in
progress with support from the EU. International transit transport still suffers from
costly and time-consuming road blocks and checks by gendarmes. (0)
7.    The flexibility of project design made it possible to establish a sector-wide
environmental protection action plan and a framework for systematically taking into
account environmental impact mitigation, particularly as this pertains to road maintenance
contracts. This aspect of the project was only a second phase objective.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
8.    Overall, the project achieved most of its objectives and had a positive impact on
transport sector restructuring, management and operations, private sector development,
public expenditures, and the environment. The outcome is rated satisfactory. Borrower
performance was satisfactory, despite the difficult dialogue and outstanding issues on
procurement. Bank performance was also satisfactory, however, its overestimation of
Government institutional capacity and preparedness to implement an ambitious program of
reforms was mitigated by staff responsiveness and the addition of incentives through
follow-up projects (TSP, SACIII, and railway concession).
9.    Sustainability of the project is rated likely. This is particularly true for those
vi



activities and entities privatized or restructured: urban transport, railway transport, port,
and road funding and maintenance. However, the sustainability of the results depends
largely on the country's economy. The achievements should be reinforced and extended.
The ongoing projects TSP, SACIII, and railway concession aim to accomplish this.
10.   Key lessons
(a) Implementation of distinct phases of separate sub-sector reforms, each targeting a set
ofpriority objectives, are more realistic than the implementation of an integrated
program with multiple and complex objectives. The project supported a reform
program that was prepared in accordance with an integrated approach, but with very
ambitious objectives and complex implementation requirements. The implementation
schedule should have been better tailored to the country context.
(b) Structural reforms could not have been implemented without incentives. In the
absence ofthe added leverage of the structural adjustment program and the railway
concession project to the TSP, it is doubtful that the TSTAP would have achieved what
it did.
(c) The budgetary and social impact ofprivatization, including severance payments,
should be addressed during project preparation using a participatory process that
includes both affected staff and union leaders. This aspect was not addressed and led
to project implementation delays.
(d) The delegation of task management to thefield is positive overall. However, significant
local pressure was experienced by the field Task Manager, who was a Cameroonian
national, and had to play the dual role of Bank representative as well as an informal
Government representative, particularly when issues of intense local interest arose.
The role of arbitrator had to be assumed often. Local sensitivities can become a major
issue and an irritant, and placing a national in this position can cause problems. This
issue will need to be addressed more fully in subsequent projects, particularly in light
of the Bank's continued decentralization efforts. Another issue that arose from
moving team leadership to the field was the lack of pertinent information in the
Headquarters files. It is important that files be sent by the field office to Headquarters
systematically in order to maintain files properly.
(e) Involvement of senior management (from the Bank and the Government) in the process
of reform implementation is crucial. The Project benefited from the timely
intervention of senior management, both from the Bank and the Government, at critical
times, especially during and after the mid-term review.
(f) Continuity in Bank support strategy through successive projects (investments and
macroeconomic or sectoral adjustments) is essentialfor supporting the different
phases of reforms andfor consolidating those achieved under the project. The on-
going SACIII, TSP, and railway concession project are the beginning of this
continuity.
(g) Political sensitivity about some reformns, such as the air transport reform, suggest that
they may be more efficiently discussed in the context of the on-going regional reform
program of air transport in West and Central Africa.
vii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2703-CM)
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    Cameroon Per Capita income has declined dramatically since the mid-eighties and
has only recently begun to recover. In 1999 it was estimated at US$650/annum (half of
what it was in the mid-eighties). . From a negative growth rate in the early 1990s
Cameroon's GNP improved to register a 5% growth during 1997-98. Buoyed by oil
production, the Government had failed to introduce fiscal and economic reforms and
improve public sector management. Weak management and institutions caused the
transport sector to have a negative impact on economic performance. The Government,
with the support of donors, developed an overall transport sector reform program to
strengthen the sector institutions and address the financial issues.
2.    The context in which the Project was implemented reflects a much improved
economic situation brought about by the January 1994 CFA franc devaluation and the
Government's economic program, supported by the IMF Standby Arrangement (approved
in March 1994) and IDA Economic Recovery Credit (approved in June 1994). The IDA
Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SACIII, approved in June 1998) focuses on the
implementation of economic and structural reforms in five key sectors: transport, public
utilities, agro-industry, financial sector and forestry. Due to the difficult dialogue with the
Borrower, SACIII was designed, in part, to support implementation of some of the reforms
included in the Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project (TSTAP).
3.    The Bank Group has contributed extensively to Cameroon's transport sector over
the past three decades by financing three port, four railway, and six road projects, in
addition to two currently being implemented. IDA transport sector financing totals about
US$565 million equivalent, of which 75% was for roads. Five transport sector
memoranda provided the analyses for project preparation. The TSTAP was preceded by a
comprehensive Transport Sector Strategy Memorandum, completed in 1994, that provided
the framework for the new program. No technical assistance (TA) was envisioned but
rather a hybrid Transport Sector Adjustment Project to support structural reforms. The
TSTAP became a separate operation in 1994, replacing the adjustment project, because
resources were required for further sector work and reforms were needed to strengthen the
basis for the proposed program. The TA program, initially conceived as part of the
Transport Sector Project (TSP) became a separate operation in 1994.
1



A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
A.1   Project Objectives
4.    The main project objectives were to support Government efforts to: (a) launch
the transport sector reform program, which would result in the creation of a new private
civil aviation company, private operation of rail services, liquidation of the urban bus
company, sale of public shares in Cameroon Shipping Lines (CAMSHIIP) and in
Cameroon Container Transport and Freight Forwarder Company (CAMTAINER),
restructuring of the Ministry of Transport (MINT) and reform of the regulatory framework
for air, urban, and maritime transport; and (b) continue preparation of the subsequent
phases which would result in: (i) restructuring of the Ministry of Public Works (MINTP);
execution by contract of most of the road maintenance work program; and implementation
of a pluri-annual programming system, as well as a sustainable financing mechanism for
road maintenance; (ii) restructuring and down-sizing of the port authority; implementation
of an efficiency-driven organization for dredging; and (iii) an improved customs
institutional framework; overhaul of the customs computerized information system; and
implementation of a new international transit system.
S.    These objectives were consistent with the Government's sector reform program (to
be implemented in several phases) that sought to: (i) enable the sector to contribute to
development instead of being a constraint on economic growth; (ii) improve the regulatory
framework, mobilize and allocate resources to maintain the transport infrastructure; and
(iii) increase competition and make the sector more efficient.
6.    To achieve these objectives the project provided for consultants' services to launch
the transport sector reform program, mainly for: (a) preliminary analysis for the
privatization of the airline, railway company, shipping company, and for liquidation of the
urban bus company; (b) preparation of a concession agreement to operate rail services; (c)
preparation of a management contract, including deferred privatization option to privatize
national air services; (d) assistance for the sale of public shares in CAMSHIP and
CAMTAINER; (e) services of the liquidator of the urban bus company; (f) financial audits
of the public enterprises (PEs) to be privatized and a study of the legal obligations of these
PEs; (g) a study to prepare restructuring of MINT; (h) revision of the regulatory
framework for urban, air, and maritime transport, including a study of regional logistical
costs and seminars.
7.    The project also provided assistance for preparation of the subsequent phases of
the transport sector reform program: (a) consultants' services to prepare restructuring of (i)
MINTP to shift toward management of road maintenance by contract; (ii) the port
authority; (iii) the M1NTP equipment pool (MATGENIE) and the National Road
Laboratory (LABOGENIE); (b) assistance to implement a new international transit system
and to improve customs procedures; (c) establishment of a simplified road taxation
system, creation of a road fund, definition of a mechanism for financing rural roads
maintenance, creation of a road database and road-maintenance programming system;
preparation of a mitigation plan to address environmental issues in road maintenance,
preparation of the investment and annual road maintenance programs; (d) engineering
2



studies on dredging and a priority investment program for REGIFERCAM; (e) local
capacity building, training and support for the Transport Interministerial Coordination
Unit, and consultants' services to strengthen the unit in charge of overall privatization in
the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
A2.   Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
8.    The project objectives were ambitious. The program embraced all the transport
sector aspects, changing the regulatory frameworks for air, road, railway, and maritime
transport; privatizing of PEs; restructuring of MINT, MINTP, and other public agencies;
introduction of a road fund, maintenance programming, and execution of works by
contractors; developing local capacity, and preparing new investment programs for roads,
railway, and ports. The project overestimated the Government's institutional capacity to
implement these reforms according to agreed timetable. The project underestimated the
complexity of the program, the social aspects of downsizing the public sector, and the need
for incentives. Medium-size private civil works contractors and transport companies to
take over the functions of the privatized PEs were supported by the European Union (EU).
9.    Three risks were identified during appraisal: (a) delays in execution because of
weak institutional capacity; (b) proceeding with studies ahead of effective commitment to
PE reform; and (c) lack of fairness and transparency in the privatization process. The first
risk did materialize, especially due to the lengthy procurement procedures and
implementation delays The second risk materialized in part in the opposition to the
privatization of CAMAIR and long delays in the port sector reforms. However, the rapid
liberalization of urban transport should be mentioned. The social aspects, which were
planed to be supported by the adjustment operation, were not addressed by the project,
which led to delays in decision making and implementation. These risks were mitigated by
the revision of the institutional framework for privatization as part of the SACIII project;
introduction of the port sector reforms and the establishment of a road-maintenance fund
as a prerequisite for disbursements; agreement with the IMF for inclusion of the cost of
social aspects in the State's f operational budget; and preparation of a separate railway
concession project.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
10.   The project objectives were substantially achieved, with the exception of the
privatization of CAMAIR. The number of objectives set for the overall sector reform
program, of which TSTAP is a part, was large. The role of the TA was to set in motion a
number of key activities that related directly to individual project components. A
discussion of the achievement and shortfalls of the main project objectives and of the
subsequent phases of the transport sector reform program. Objectives for the project the
project are flagged as "O" and those for the second phase as "P".
(a)    Railway activities previously managed by the PE, REGIFERCAM, were
effectively commissioned to the private sector despite difficulties encountered during
implementation and preparation of the railway concession project. REGIFERCAM is in
the process of liquidation. CAMRAIL has been operating the railway since April 1, 1999.
Although reductions in transport costs have not yet been realized, it is expected that an
3



improved road network will establish competition that would result in reasonable cost
reductions in rail and road transport. (0)
(b)   Liberalization of urban transport and liquidation of SOTUC, the urban public bus
company, were achieved, with increased competition and cost reductions in transport
services in the major cities-- Douala and Yaounde. However, difficulties were
encountered in the appointment of a liquidator for the bus company and the payment of
severance packages became a serious issue that is still being addressed in the context of the
macroeconomic reform program. (0)
(c)   In maritime transport, increased efficiency and cost reductions were realized by
shippers, mainly as a result of the implementation of a new law which: (i) eliminates the
protection of national vessels by abolishing cargo sharing; (ii) dissolves the Government-
owned National Shippers' Council (CNCC), which is to be replaced by a private entity that
will be established, financed, and managed by the shippers themselves; and (iii) abolishes
certain levies initially imposed on exports and imports as a mechanism to finance CNCC.
The establishment of a private national shipping line through the sale of Government
shares in CAMSHIP (and of CAMTAINER which was majority-owned by CAMPSHIP)
has led to increased competition. (0)
(d)   Although the port sector reforms have not yet been completed, the measures taken
so far have led to some reduction in port transaction costs and in savings in clearing times.
With the support of SACIII, EU, and FAC, it is expected that by the end of 2001 port
clearing times will be down by more than 75% to an acceptable level of 7 days for imports
and 2 days for exports, and that port transaction costs will be brought down to a
competitive level with the best performing ports along the West African Coast line. The
port dredging activities were privatized. (P)
(e)    The objective for Road Maintenance, supported by SACIII, was fully achieved.
The project is expected to increase efficiency, reduce road maintenance costs, and secure
funds for maintenance. (P)
(f)    Restructuring of MINT and MINTP was slow and continues under the TSP and
SAC III. (0) & (P)
(g)   Improvements in the customs clearance systems, notably through the
establishment of the single clearing window (Guichet Unique) at the Douala port and the
autonomous Douala Port Authority, will be achieved with support from the EU, FAC, and
SACII. (P)
(h)   The privatization/liquidation of the civil aviation company was not achieved. In
terms of regulatory reforms, air transport was only partially liberalized; domestic air
transport was liberalized and the civil aviation code was revised, introducing open skies,
but in practice, regional and long-haul services are still govemed by bilateral accords. (0)
(i)   Improvement of international transit system was only partially achieved, It is in
progress with the support from the EU. Intemational transit transport still be suffers from
costly and time-consuming roadblocks and checks by gendarnes. (0)
11.   One significant achievement, that was a second phase program objective (P) was
the success in establishing a sector-wide environmental protection action plan and a
4



framework for systematically taking into account enviromnental impact mitigation,
particularly in road maintenance contracts.
C     MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
12.   Factors subject to Government control. Among the major factors that affected
project implementation were weak institutional capacity and cumbersome administrative
procedures. Implementation of this ambitious and complex reform program was delayed
already by five months after credit effectiveness. Serious procurement delays and the sole-
source contract for dredging initiated by the Government led to a one-year impasse with
the Bank before the Government reverted to international competitive bidding.
Discrepancies in the management of the Special Account(SA) led to suspension of its
replenishment for close to a year. The Government failed to take timely decisions on some
reforms, such as CAMAIR, the port, the railway privatization process, and the appointment
of the liquidator for SOTUC. During the mid-term review the extent of Government
sensitivities about liberalization, privatization, and structural reforms became apparent and
it was realized that these could not be adequately addressed in the context of a strictly
sectoral operation and that more incentives were needed. Less ambitious and separate
programs and projects, like the program for the road sector with MINTP and others for
transport with MINT and its PE, would have been implemented with fewer difficulties and
not overburdened the Government's capacity.
13.   The issue of severance payments to workers was not addressed in the project
because planed in the expected adjustment transport project. Worker hostility to
privatization became apparent when a number of labor unions offered resistance to
privatization of CAMAIR and REGIFERCAM, for example. About 2000 employees were
to be retired as a result of the privatization - liquidation - restructuring - reform process but
no facility had been designed to deal with the underlying social and financial consequences
of the reforms. Since severance packages were costly, the Government was reluctant to
proceed with privatization until adequate financial arrangements could be made. It should
be noted that the Bank at the time was not authorized to finance redundancies. To its
credit, when this issue arose Bank staff made commendable efforts to solve the problem by
organizing participatory meetings with those affected and seeking ways to resolve the
impasse. Eventually it was agreed with the IMF that the social costs would be integrated
into the State's operational budget.
14.   Factors subject to implementing agencies' control. Institutional capacity
limitations of the numerous implementing agencies and the lack of commitment of many
PEs slowedproject implementation. Despite the procurement issues and delays,
discrepancies in the management of the SA, difficulties in recruiting consultants, and a
difficult dialogue, the project achieved most of its objectives.
15.   The April 1997 mid-term review, decentralization of the Bank project task
management to the field, introduction of transport sector reforms in the SACIII project,
and preparation of a separate project for railway privatization combined to sharpen the
implementation strategy, strengthened the donor coordination, contributed to
improvements in the participatory process, the dialogue with the Bank, and the decision-
making process.
5



16.   Costs and delays. The project achieved most of its objectives within the original
financial provisions. An amount of SDR 621,156.21 (9% of the Credit amount) was
cancelled, mainly due to the variation of the FCFA exchange rates and payment of project
preparation costs through the TSP and the railway concession project.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   Sustainability of project achievements is highly likely. This is particularly true for
those activities or entities that were successfully privatized or restructured (maritime
transport, CAMSHIP, urban transport, SOTUC, railway transport, REGIFERCAM,
LABOGENIE, and contracted maintenance, MATGENIE). The completion of the
privatization process and the irreversible takeover by the private sector are good signs of
sustainability. The liquidation of SOTUC was completed and urban bus transport is now
operated by the private sector under new legislation. CAMRAIL, the new private
company is trusted by the banking sector and several donors are providing investment
funds for the Cameroon railway system. Significant involvement of the private sector,
demonstrated government commitment, and continuity of the reforms through the TSP,
SACIII, and the railway projects are good indications for sustainability of the on-going
reforms in the port, road, and railway sectors. The Guichet Unique is managed by the
private sector; CNCC has been dissolved, and a new shipper's council is being established
to serve the interests of shippers; majority private sector representation in the Comite de
Coordination et d' Orientation of the Douala port has been achieved; and the newly
created Port Autonome de Douala will be commercially managed.
18.   The road fund and the road maintenance program are likely to be sustained given:
(i) the establishment of a road user fee in the Finance Law; (ii) demonstrated private sector
capacity to carry out maintenance contracts; and (iii) majority representation of road users
in the fund ' s management board. The TSP is extending the sustainability of road
maintenance to rural and urban roads.
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
19.   Bank performance is rated satisfactory overall. However four shortcomings are
noted below:
(a)    The timeframe for full implementation of both large and complex privatization and
restructuring programs was overly optimistic. By including part of the reform program in
the TSP, SACIII, and the railway project, some of these shortcomings were mitigated.
(b)   Privatization of CAMAIR was simply a "non-starter," which the Bank pushed to
the exclusion of other options or solutions. The result was an aborted dialogue on the
subject, and a failed objective.
(c)    The project design did not take account of the social issues associated with
redundancies resulting from the privatization/liquidation and restructuring. As a result,
during project implementation the team was placed in the awkward position of having to
manage damage control with both staff identified as redundant and labor unions, as well as
with the Government, by advocating financial support for payment of severance packages.
6



The issue was eventually addressed by the Bank through the macroeconomic dialogue.
(d)   While procurement delays are largely attributable to the heavy bureaucracy of the
Borrower, the Borrower accused the Bank's team for delays in providing its non-
objections. The problem was resolved in part by placing the Task Manager in the field,
but this generated other issues as such as pressures on the Task Manager, who was a
Cameroonian, lack of coordination with Headquarters staff, and an inadequate filing
system.
20.   Nevertheless, Bank staff was diligent in implementation and dealt with a multitude
of issues on a meager supervision budget. The complexity of the project did not dampen
their attention to detail. It is a testament to the Team that during this period over 60
different issues, identified in the project files, were addressed. The mid-term review was a
positive milestone, as it identified key stumbling blocks and put the project back on track
in those areas where it could have been derailed. Three minor drawbacks can be noted in
the transfer of project management to the field: (a) pressures on the Task Manager
because hew was a Cameroonian national; (b) poor attention to the transfer of key project
documentation and files to Headquarters; and (c) lack of appropriate back-up staff at
Headquarters to support the field-based team.
21.   In terms of overall supervision implementation progress was adequately reported.
Problems were identified in a timely fashion and adequately assessed, and development
impact and performance ratings in the Form 590 and PSR were accurate. Legal covenants
were enforced and remedies exercised. The Bank, the Borrower, implementing agencies,
and co-financiers met regularly and worked well together. A key positive factor was the
coherence of donor programs in the transport sector and the railway project. This brought
about added leverage and synergy, particularly in the context of SACIII.
22.   However, despite coordination among donors (FAC, EU and BMZ) at the start of
the project and between donors and the Government, progress in implementation was too
slow. Also, the differences in donors' procedures contributed to the delays. The regular
coordination meetings held after the mid-term review, helped to expedite progress in the
latter stages of the project
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
23.   Borrower performance is rated satisfactory overall. However, shortcomings in
procurement and initial hesitation in taking decisions, as in the case of CAMAIR, the port
reforms, and liquidation of SOTUC, made dialogue with the Bank difficult throughout
implementation. The contradictions became apparent as the Cameroonian bureaucracy or
"hierarchy" consistently ignored agreements reached with donors at the ministerial level.
Other key deficiencies, including slow and tedious procedures for consultant selection and
inefficient procurement processing and bid tendering, also hampered the project.
24.   Staff of the executing units, however, worked tirelessly to move the project
forward. Like their counterparts in the Bank, they dealt expertly with numerous issues that
arose during implementation. Borrower Performance during implementation at times was
unsatisfactory, while that of the implementing agencies was satisfactory. The Government
7



and the implementing agencies complied with all the covenants/commitments in the
Development Credit Agreement. The required institutional changes were made.
Management and staffing was satisfactory and the provision of counterpart funds was
adequate. Increased efficiencies and cost reductions were realized. All other fiduciary
requirements were satisfied, including the submission of progress reports, accounting
statements, and audit reports to the Bank. TA, mainly for the preparation of studies, was
appropriately used.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
25.   Project objectives and implementation of project components were substantially
realized. However, the objective of full privatization, liquidation, liberalization, and
restructuring of all the entities identified, within a 2-3 year period proved overly optimistic.
Govermment's commitment to the process was misread along with the state of
"preparedness" of each PE, market conditions, and the budgetary and social implications of
privatization. Project design did not adequately assess these risks or their possible impact
on project implementation. It is, therefore, not surprising that not all the objectives were
achieved.
26.   No formal economic analysis was prepared for the project, as none was required
for this type of a program, although financial analyses were conducted for the enterprises
to be privatized. For this ICR, therefore, the economic analysis is limited to assessing the
outcome of the following specific benefits:
(a)    Use of a competitive bidding process was expected to lead to greater fairness and
transparency in the preparation and execution of the privatization programs. Although this
was largely realized, problems arose that led to significant delays in the implementation of
some project components. The Government, for example, defied Bank requirements by
concluding a sole source contract for the dredging of the Douala port channel. This was
only one manifestation of an extremely difficult dialogue with the port management, until
it was replaced in 1998. Distortions in the call for bids and in the capital structure and
transfer of shares to the privatized company were also noted, while the Government
maintained that the process was transparent.
(b)    Privatization/liquidation was expected to curb Government subsidies to the PEs;
this has been substantially achieved s there is currently no registered direct subsidy to
most of the PEs; as shown in the Table below.
8



Enterprises             Subsidies: FCFA (million)    Subsidies: FCFA (million)
(in 1994)                   (in 1999)
CAMTAINER
MATGENIE                         159
CAMRAIL                        85,613/a                     90,965/a
CAMSHIP                          N/A                         N/A
ONPC                            14,865                         0
CAMAIR                           N/A                         N/A
SOTUC                           1,600/b                       0
LABOGENIE                       2,473                         209
CNCC                            1,000/b                        0
a/ includes asset sales
b/ approximately
Note: The Government will continue to subsidize railway passenger activities under the
new concession agreement.
(c)    With respect to road maintenance, the TSTAP established the framework for a
sustainable financing system, adequate road management, and private execution of
maintenance. The road fund is in operation for the second year, and on an annual
disbursement basis, the funding for road maintenance by the road fund is now higher than
the aggregated funding from all the road sector donors. Works are being carried out by
private contractors on a competitive basis. An improvement in the road network is
expected very soon along with lower vehicle operating costs.
(d)    Port restructuring was not achieved under this TA project, but it has been included
in the SAC III program. Meanwhile, in February 1996 port costs decreased because of a
37% reduction in Douala port tariffs, and the National Port Agency of Cameroon (ONPC)
was granted a tax-free status on tariffs. However no parallel reductions in port surcharges
occurred. A decrease in ship waiting timne by about 3 days was realized that would have a
direct impact on both transport costs and port competitiveness.
(e)    Little or no reduction has occurred in transit costs; as police and gendarme
personnel continue to carry out time-consuming and costly checks on all major roads.
(f)    The Bank's project files (March 1994) show an estimated the cost for the proposed
transport restructuring/privatization program in the range of 94 billion 94 FCFA with the
project and 62 billion 62 FCFA without the project, for the years 1994 and 1995. No
annual assessment of the "with project" and "without project" case was made and it was
not possible to do a re-assessment.; However, it is worth noting that the "with project"
case did not include any estimate of the social costs, especially for the severance
payments/packages.
27.   The project outcome is judged as satisfactory overall, even though the time frame
9



for full privatization/restructuring under the TSTAP was overly optimistic in light of the
local social and political sensitivities, the novelty of the reform approach, and the
significant budgetary impacts in a constrained economic environment. The experience
with TSTAP lends credence to the phased approach where follow up of a number of
objectives has been incorporated into subsequent programs, both sectoral and
macroeconomic, confirming further that the Bank's integrated program approach is
appropriate for the transport sector.
28.   This project is not an easy one to assess because the integrated approach, which
was used as the framework, the planned implementation in phases, and the concomitant
support for the reform program from the TSP, SACIII, and the railway concession project
make it difficult to separate out the achievements and outcomes of the TSTAP project. In
light of the complexity of this project, its multiple objectives, and its linkages with other
projects, it is recommended that on completion of the TSP, SAC III, and the railway
project, an analysis of the four projects be undertaken together in the form of a sector ICR
or that a new transport sector memorandum be prepared.
H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
29.   A number of follow-on projects are currently underway as part of the long-term
transport sector program. In addition to SACIII, the Bank is or will plan to provide
support to the program through two other operations, i.e., the Transport Sector Project
(US$60.7 million) and the Railway Concession Project (US$22.0 million). The latter
project, with a total cost estimated at US$85.0 million, is to be presented to the Bank's
Board in the second quarter of the year 2000 and will be supported by a number of co-
financiers.
30.   Given the success of the reforms in the sector, future operations should aim at
pursuing the overall goal of improving transport sectorperformance and efficiency by
consolidating and sustaining the achievements of the reforms and implementing the much
needed rehabilitation of the existing transport infrastructure, especially rural roads. It is
recommended that the Bank's future program lay emphasis on the following aspects that
are reflected in the Government's medium- term action plan: promotion of private sector
involvement in infrastructure; rural transport development and implementation of the
environmental action plan; training, especially for the staff of regulatory bodies;
improvement of the international transport corridors; and privatization of air transport.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
31.   The most significant lessons learned from the project are the following:
(a)   Implementation of distinct phases of separate sub-sector reforms, each targeting a
set ofpriority objectives, is more realistic than the implementation of an integrated
program with multiple objectives. The project supported a reform program that was
prepared in accordance with an integrated approach, but with very ambitious objectives
and complex implementation requirements. Program implementation proved difficult, if
not impossible, under a TA project, even with phased implementation. The
implementation schedule should have been better tailored to the country context. Phased
10



implementation evolved more in response to issues that arose during implementation than
as a well-prepared and planned initiative.
(b)   In the absence of incentives, structural reforms could not have been implemented.
Without the added leverage of the structural adjustment program and the railway
concession project to the TSP, it is doubtful that the TSTAP would have achieved what it
did. As a result, the lines between the projects are somewhat blurred, although the joint
macro-micro approach has proved very effective.
(c)    The budgetary and social impact ofprivatization, including severance payments,
should be addressed during project preparation. The project triggered awareness, both
within the Government and the Bank, of the budgetary and social impact of privatization
and set the pace for credible solutions that are being replicated in other sectors. It showed
that social impact mitigation, including severance payments, should be an integral part of
project design and that privatization and restructuring strategies, including staff
redundancies, need to be prepared using a participatory process that should include both
affected staff and union leaders.
(d)    The delegation ofproject task management to the field is positive overall.
However, significant local pressure was experienced by the field Task Manager, who was
a Caneroonian national, and had to play the dual role of Bank representative and an
informal Goverrnent representative on issues of particular local interest. The role of an
arbitrator was often assumed. Local sensitivities can become a major issue and an irritant,
and placing a national in this position can cause problems. This issue will need to be
addressed more fully in subsequent projects, particularly in light of the Bank's continuing
decentralization efforts. Another issue that arose from moving the team leadership to the
field was the lack of pertinent information in the Headquarters files. It is important that
the field office send files to Headquarters so those files are maintained adequately.
(e)   Involvement of senior management (from the Bank and the Government) in the
process of reform implementation is crucial. The Project benefited from the timely
intervention of senior management, both from the Bank and the Government, at a critical
time. The presence of the two sector Directors (Transport 2 and Environment) during the
mid-term review and the continued support of the Ministers of Transport and Public Works
during the last two years of the project proved very beneficial.
(f)    Continuity in Bank support strategy, through successive projects (investments and
macroeconomic or sectoral adjustments), is essentialfor supporting the different phases of
reforms and for consolidating those achieved under the project. The on-going SACIII,
TSP, and railway concession project are the beginning of this continuity.
(g)    Political sensitivity to some reforms suggest that these, such as the air transport
reform, would be more efficiently discussed through the on-going regional reform
program of air transport in West and Central Africa.
11



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial     Partial       Negligible        Not
applicable
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macro Policies                                          X
Sector Policies                                         X
Financial Objectives                     X
Institutional Development                               X
Physical Objectives                                                                    X
Poverty Reduction                                                                      X
Gender Issues                                                                          X
Other Social Objectives                                 X
Environmental Objectives                 X
Public Sector Management                 X
Private Sector Development               X
Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability                   X
Highly Satisfactory     Deficient         Satisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                                  X
Preparation Assistance                                          X
Appraisal                                                       X
Supervision                                                    X
Highly Satisfactory     Deficient         Satisfactory
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                    X
Implementation                                               Mixed
Covenant Compliance                                            X
Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Highly
Satisfactory                                 Satisfactory
E. Assessment of Outcome                                X
12



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                       Year of         Status
approval
1. Preceding operations
First Highway Project  Construction of trunk roads                      1975        Completed
First Douala Port Project                                               1976        Completed
Second Highway Project   Construction of trunk roads                    1978        Completed
Second Railway Project                                                  1978        Completed
Third Highway Project    Construction of trunk roads                    1982        Completed
Third Railway Project                                                   1979        Completed
Feeder Roads Project   Establish an efficient institutional framework for  1977     Completed
planning, developing, and maintaining feeder
roads
Fourth Highway Project   Improve the Government's capacity to maintain  1979        Completed
roads, promote small- and medium-scale
contractors; control vehicle loads, and improve
road-maintenance planning.
Fourth Railway Project
Fifth Highway Project  Assist the Government in reconstructing the      1982        Completed
Edea-Yaounde section of the Douala-Edea-
Yaoundd Road, improve the Government's
capacity for road rehabilitation and transportation
planning and coordination, and lay the foundation
of a maintenance and rehabilitation program for
the country's paved road network.
Sixth Highway Project                                                Date???---     Completed
2. Following operations
Transport Sector Project   Roads Investment program                     1996         On-going
Third Structural       Adjustment program, a major part of which is     1998         On-going
Adjustment Credit (SAC   related to the transport sector, particularly port
III)                   reforms
13



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in the Project Cycle                         Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation
Pre-appraisal                                              10/30/94
Appraisal                                                  2/27/95
Negotiations                                               3/15/95
Board presentation                                         4/11/95
Signing                                                    6/29/95
Effectiveness                                              12/19/95
Project completion                                          6/30/99
Credit closing                                             9/30/99
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY96           FY97            FY98            FY99
Appraisal Estimate        4.86            9.12            10.2
Actual               3.06           4.96            6.92            8.84
Actual as % of Estimate     63%             54%            68%             91%
Date of Final Disbursement: 12/22/1999
14



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's Report         Estimated              Actual
Support to Institutional Development
Strengthening of the unit in charge of privatization in MINEFI     Apr. 1996              June 1997
Financial advisor for the privatization of air services            Dec. 1996              Feb. 1996
Financial advisor for the privatization of railway services        Apr. 1997              Nov. 1997
Financial advisor for the privatization of CAMS1IP/CAMTAINER       Nov. 1995              May 1995
Liquidator of SOTUC                                                Oct. 1995              Dec. 1994
Assistance to the liquidation monitoring committee                 Jan. 1996              Apr. 1995
Reorganization of operational and financial management of ONPC     Sept. 1996             Aug. 1996
Technical assistance for restructuring of MATGENIE                 June 1997              Oct. 1996
Technical assistance for restructuring of LABOGENIE                June 1996              Dec. 1996
Support for coordination of road-maintenance activities            Apr. 1996              May 1995
Institutional Development Studies
Financial and operational evaluation of CAMAIR                     July 1994              Jun. 1994
Restructuring of MINTP                                             Sept. 1995             Dec. 1998
Restructuring of MINT                                              Sept. 1995             Oct. 1996
Study of dredging reorganization                                   Nov. 1995              Oct. 1996
Study of a Road Fund                                               June 1995              June 1995
Support for organization and financing of rural road maintenance   Dec. 1995              Apr. 1995
Study of the road taxation system                                  June 1995              Jun. 1994
Institutional study of urban transport                             Mar. 1994              Jan. 1994
Capability of local consultants                                    June 1995              Jun. 1997
Reduction of transport costs at Douala port                        Dec. 1995              Canceled
Policy Support
Assistance for the liberalization of urban transport               July 1995               Mar. 1995
Study of the costs of the international chain of transport         Jan. 1996              Aug. 1996
Transport sector review and short-term missions of experts         June 1994              Not done
Project Implementation and Preparation
Audit of the computerized customs information system               Feb. 1996              Not done
Relocation of the computerized customs information system          Feb. 1996              Not done
Study of the insurance system                                      Dec. 1995              Not done
Earth road maintenance programming study                           Sept. 1995             May 1996
Paved road maintenance programming study                           June 1995              Nov. 1996
Environmental considerations in road maintenance works             Sept 1995              Nov. 1997
Detailed engineering studies of a road maintenance priority program  Nov. 1995             June 1997
Analysis of dredging materials                                     Oct. 1995               Jan. 1997
Study of the relocation of the dry dock                            Dec. 1995              Feb. 1997
Study of the port dredger's rehabilitation                         Oct. 1995              canceled
Continuation of computerization of vehicle certification           June 1996              Not done
Pilot operation to monitor loads on trucks                         Oct. 1995               Dec. 1997
Project accountant in TICU                                         Dec. 1995              Nov. 1996
Audit of public enterprises                                        Dec. 1995              Canceled
Project audits                                                     June 1998               Submitted
Establishment of project accounting                                Dec. 1995              Mar. 1996
15



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Key operating indicatorsl                                       Actual                   Projected
Complete port institutional reforms and transfer industrial                            December 2000
and commercial activities to the private sector
Reduce clearing times at Douala port to 7 days for                                       June 2000
imports and 2 for exports
Establishment of single window (Guichet Unique) at the        January 1999
Douala port
Consolidate road maintenance operations and the road           June 1999
fund
Complete MINTP restructuring and reduce staffing to less                                 June 2000
than 2000:
Update the Transport Sector Strategy                                                     June 2000
Table 7: Studies included in the Project
Studies           Purpose as Defined at Appraisal/Redefined         Status                Impact of Study
Review of the role and organization of MINT aimed at   completed    MINT reorganized as recommended by
strengthening planning, regulatory, and policy preparation          study; restructuring on-going
capability.
Review of the role and organization of MINTP with focus on  completed    MINTP reorganized as recommended by
planning, programming, managing, and supervising road-              study; restructuring well advanced
maintenance works.
Establishment of a road maintenance fund; and harmonization    completed    Road Fund functioning, but road-taxation
and simplification of the road taxation system                      system not simplified
Review of urban transport institutions and preparation of  completed    Urban Transport operated by private
action plans for road safety.                                       sector; road safety plan not defined due
to lack of institutional clarity in MINTP
of
Port dredging reorganization.                          completed    Multi-year contract being concluded
Assessment of capability of local consultants in transport and    completed    Being applied but further studies and
public works                                                        training needed to streamline road
maintenance execution under the Road
Fund financing
Reduction of transport costs at Douala port.           completed    Being implemented as part of on-going
port reforms
Preliminary analysis of operational and financial management    canceled  CAMAIR staff were opposed to the
of CAMAIR; preparation of the privatization of airports; and        study stalled; but the two major airports
evaluation of CAMAIR personnel.                                     are under private management
Rehabilitation of LABOGENIE and MATGENIE.              completed    LABOGENIE and MATGENIE
restructured, but not yet privatized
'None was identified in President' s Report; indicators in this table are drawn from the Borrower' s operational plan
16



Table 8A: Project Costs
Project Components                                  Total Project       IDA-only       Actual IDA costs
Cost Estimate       Estimate
(USS million)
1.  Goods                                         1.2                0.2              0.22
2.  Consultant Services and Studies
(a) Support to Institutional Development      9.6                2.8              2.68
(b) Institutional Development Studies         1.4                0.1              0.10
(c) Policy Support                            0.5                0.1              0.08
(d) Project Implementation and Preparation    4.5                3.3               2.79
3.  Training and Seminars                         1.5                0.8               0.74
4.  Operating Costs                               0.5                0.3               0.36
Base Costs                                        19.2
Physical Contingencies                            0.4
Price Contingencies                               0.6
PPF                                                                  2.1               1.76
Special Account                                                                        0.10
TOTAL                                             20.2 *             10.2              8.84
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                        SAR Estimate          Revised Estimate                Actual
(US$ million)
IDA                        10.2                    10.2                    8.8
EU                         7.3                     7.3                     7.3
FAC                        2.2                     2.2                     2.2
BMZ                        0.5                     0.5                     0.5
Sub-Total                  20.2                    20.2                    18.8
Govermnentof               3.7                     3.7                     3.7
Caneroon *
TOTAL                      23.9                    23.9                    22.5
Note: * Includes US$3.7 million in taxes, duties, and salaries of local counterpart staff.
17



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement       Covenant   Status        Fulfillment Date         Description of Covenant         Comment
Text Reference    Class
Original    Revised
Text Reference     01          C      12/31/96               Have the records and accounts,    Complied with
4.01 (b)                                                     including those of the Special
Account, audited and fumish a
certified copy of the project audits.
Text Reference     01         CD                             Have the Special Account audited  Complied with
4.01 (c)                                                     and fumish a certified copy of the    Delay.
project audits.
Text Reference     10          C      09/20/95               Fumish a project implementation   Complied with
6.01 (b)                                                     plan.
Text Reference     01          C      12/18/95               Enter a multi-year contract with an    Complied with
6.01 (c)                                                     auditing firm.
Schedule 4 Para    04          C                             The Borrower shall designate local   Complied with
2                                                            counterparts to consultants under  for the most
termns of reference and with     important
qualifications satisfactory to the  studies.
Association.
Schedule 4 Para    09          C      08/31/96    10/4/96    Furnish a report covering progress    Complied with
4 (a)                                                        in all aspects to be reviewed during
the mid-term review.
Schedule 4 Para    09          C      11/30/96               Carry out a mid-term review.      Complied with.
4 (a)
C = Complied with                CD = Compliance after delay
18



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OD 10.60
Accounting, Financial Reporting,    The audit reports were submitted with minor delays.
and Auditing
2. OD 12.20
Special Accounts                Received with minor delays.
3. OP 12.30
Statements of Expenditure       Received with minor delays.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of the Project Cycle                      Actual
Weeks                   US$ (000)
Through Appraisal                   23.0                      55.7
Appraisal -- Board                  5.4                      14.3.9
Board -- effectiveness              N/A                       N/A
Supervision                        115.4                     235.1
Completion                           10                       18.0
TOTAL                              153.8                     323.1
19



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating b/
Stage of.   Month    No. of    Days in   Specialized staff  Implementation    Development   Types of problems
Project    /Year   Persons      Field          skills          Status          Objectives
Cycle                                     Represented a/
Through
Appraisal
Appraisal
through
Board
approval
Board
approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision 1   06/95    4                    2 HE, PS, TE          S                S
Supervision 2   03/96    5                   3 PSS, RS, PM,         S                S
PE??? (explain
below in
footnote a/
Supervision 3   06/96    6                    TE, PM, RS,           S                S
PSS, EN, SPE
Supervision 4   10/96    2                     STE, POO             S                S
Supervision 5   04/97    3                   SM, SOO, STE          U                 S             Project mgt,
Mid-Term                                                                                         Procurement
Review/a
Supervision 6   02/98    2                     SOO, STE             S                S
Supervision 7   06/98    2                     SOO, SRS             S                S
Supervision 8   05/99    1                       SOO                S                S            Final mission
a/ Key to Specialization
HE = Highway Engineer           PS = Procurement Specialist              TE = Transport Economist
PSS = Private Sector Spec.      RS = Railway Specialist                  PM = Project Management
EN = Environment                STE = Sr. Transport Economist            POO = Project Operations Officer
SM = Sector Manager             SOO = Sr. Operations Officer             SRS = Sr. Railway Specialist
SPE = Sr. Port Specialist
b/ Key to Performance Rating
S = Satisfactory                HS = Highly Satisfactory                 U = Unsatisfactory
a/ after the mid-term review,
supervision was continuous in the
Field as Task Management was
moved to the field
20



Annex 1
Status of Transport Sector TA Program Objectives
Categorits                          Appraisal Objectives                              Completion status
Civil Aviation               To liberalize air transport, establish air   In process; domestic market liberalized by the 1993 law but not in
safety and security in line with    practice; new Civil Aviation law enacted in December 1998 (allows for
intemational standards.             open skies on regional and long haul and establishes an autonomous
Revision of law                     civil aviation authority to enforce safety oversight and other safety
regulations/standards);the law is not yet being implemented
CAMAIR                       Privatize CAMAIR for greater        Aborted
efficiency
Railway                      Revision of price structure to promote    Not achieved; Govemment's attempts to re-align the competition
Regulation                   competition with road transport     between rail and road proved inappropriate, Competition is expected to
REGIFERCAM                   Privatize railway services for greater  increase in the coming years as a result of improved road conditions
efficiency                          and privatization of REGIFERCAM, which was achieved in 1998
Urban Transport              Liquidation                         Accomplished in March 1998 However all severance payments have
SOTUC - public bus company                                       not yet been made
Regulatory framework         Preparation of new regulations to   Completed; new regulatory framework enacted in 1998 allowing only
encourage the private sector and improve  the private sector to operate the urban transport, and this is currently
efficiency                          being implemented.
Maritime                     Privatize CAMSEHP and CAMTAINER   Completed in 1996 with the sale of Govenmment shares in CAMSHIP;
CAMSHIP and CAMTAINER                                            CAMTAINER also privatized as Govemment shares were owned by
CAMSHIP.
Regulatory framework         Liberalize access to industry and   Completed. New maritime transport law enacted in 1997that
increase competition in maritime    liberalized maritime transport, abolished cargo sharing originally
transport                          intended to protect national vessels, and abolished some levies initially
intended to fmance CNCC (also dissolved, and to be replaced by a
private entity established
Port Activities              Contracting dredging by intemational    Completed. The Govermnent finally used ICB despite initial sole-
Access channel               competitive bidding (ICB)           source contracting
Port reforms                 Restructure ONPC and the port to    On-going; new port law enacted in December 1998; autonomous port
promote competitiveness and greater  of Douala established, and ONPC expected to be dissolved and replaced
involvement of the private sector.  by a newly established National Port Authority. Its role would be
limited to regulation and environmental oversight
Port costs                   Reduce port costs and transaction times   On-going as part of implementation actions under the new port Law of
December 1998; ship waiting time decreased from 8 to 5 days; port
transaction costs reduced by about 37%
Port investments            Involve private sector and align port
investments to economic needs
Transit                     Implementation of a system under     On-going with EU support; no significant progress achieved
Regional transit             custom bonds
Customs system               Complete overhaul to reduce clearance   In progress; a new single window established to expedite customs
Improvement                  times and improve revenue collection  clearance and port handling
Road Maintenance             Implementation of new strategy to   Completed, though still needs refinements; road maintenance is being
Maintenance                  improve efficiency and sustainability;    contracted to the private sector and financed by a road-user fee,
State to disengage itself progressively  managed by an independent road fund, with majority private
from road maintenance execution     participation.
Sector institutions          Improve capacity and efficiency of  In progress; MINTP and MINT reorganized to perform their new roles
sector ministries to ensure proper policy   better. Though not yet privatized, MATGENIE and LABOGENIE
formulation, planning and supervision;    were restructured; staff reductions are being pursued in MINTP,
MATGENIE, and LABOGENIE.
Environment                  Mitigate environmental impact of road    Completed; new guidelines built into procurement documents; a new
maintenance                         transport sector environmental action plan adopted
21



RAPPORT DU GOUVERNEMENT et PREMIER DRAFT
I     INTRODUCTION
Dans le cadre de sa nouvelle politique des transports, et des travaux publics, le
Gouvemement a mis en place entre 1992 et 1999, un vaste Programme Sectoriel des
Transports (PST) dont l'objectif global est d'assurer une meilleure efficacite et un
developpement durable et coherent du secteur pour permettre A celui-ci de mieux
contribuer a la croissance de l'economie du pays, A la r6duction de la pauvrete et a la
protection de l'environnement.
Compte tenu de sa complexite, le Programme Sectoriel des Transports (PST) a et
scinde en deux phases a savoir: i) le Projet de Preparation de la Reforme des Transports
(PPRT) et ii) le projet Sectoriel des Transports (PST).
Le Projet de Preparation de la Reforme des Transports (PPRT) dont le cofit est
estim6 a un peu plus de 20 millions de dollars, est finance par plusieurs bailleurs de fonds,
a savoir; l'IDA, l'UE, le FAC la CFD et la BMZ, ainsi que par le Gouvemement du
Cameroun. Les diff6rents accords de financement sont en vigueur et le projet execute est
aujourd'hui cloture en ce qui conceme les aspects finances par le credit IDA 2703-CM.
Le PPRT devait se realiser sur trois (3) ans a compter de 1995.
Le present rapport est la contribution du Gouvemement au rapport final du projet.
Apres un bref rappel des objectifs du projet; le rapport presente succinctement les
principaux resultats atteints avant d'en faire une analyse domaine par domaine. La
situation financiere du projet suit, et l'6tat de mise en ceuvre des dispositions contractuelles
est rappele dans un tableau.
L'ensemble du projet est ensuite resum6 sur trois (3) tableaux syntheses dont l'un
donne les r6sultats attendus et reellement atteints, un deuxieme donne le plan de passation
des marches et un troisieme donne l'etat detaille des engagements ou contrats passes sur le
PPRT.
II    OBJECTIF DU PPRT
L'objectif est d'aider le Gouvernement dans la preparation et la mise en euvre de son
programme de Reforme du Secteur des Transports et dans la poursuite de la preparation
des prochaines phases notamment d'investissements (routes et infrastructures des
transports). Le programme de reforme devant consister a mettre en place une planification
strategique, cr6er une nouvelle compagnie a6rienne privee, privatiser le transport
ferroviaire, liquider la SOTUC, privatiser CAMSHIP et CAMTAINER, restructurer le
MINT et MINTP, liberaliser les transports aerien, maritime, urbain, developper un
systeme de programmation pluriannuelle de l'entretien routier, privatiser les travaux
d'entretien routier, restructurer le Port, organiser le dragage perenne du chenal du Wouri,
22



reduire les couts et delais de passage portuaire des marchandises, faciliter le transit.
m   PRINCIPAUX RESULTATS ATTEINTS
Des resultats importants ont et atteints sur tous les points, sauf en ce qui conceme la
CAMAIR, dont l'atteinte des objectifs poursuivis peut etre consid6ree comme mitigee.
Le PPRT a aide le Gouvernement a confirmer son engagement a faire les reformes du
secteur.
1. Adoption de la strat6gie
Le Gouvemement a adopte en 1996, une politique sectorielle des travaux publics et des
transports accompagnde d'une matrice d'actions qui vise:
i)    le ddsengagement de l'Etat des activites qui peuvent etre mieux prises en main et
rentabilisees par le secteur prive,
ii)    la liberalisation du transport maritime et reforme du secteur portuaire,
liberalisation du transport urbain et du transport aerien,
iii)   restructuration privatisation/liquidation de; SOTUC, SOCAMAC, CAMAIR,
MATGENIE, LABOGENIE, CAMSHIP, CAMTAINER, CNCC, de la gestion des
aerodromes (ADC), concession de 1'exploitation du transport ferroviaire et
liquidation de la Regifercam, pour alleger le poids de ces entreprises sur le budget
de l'Etat.
Des resultats substantiels ont etd obtenus sur ces reformes:
i)    les Ministeres des Travaux Publics et des Transports ont ete restructur6s A travers
les plans d'organisation des effectifs (POE) pour se consacrer A leur nouveau r6le
de definition de politique, de planification, de programmation, de budgdtisation et
de controle (confere d6cret n96/225 du Ier octobre 1996 et n96/259 du 19
octobre 1996).
ii)    En matiere de lib6ralisation
Entretien routier
La privatisation des travaux de l'entretien des routes principales est effective; le taux de
privatisation est de l'ordre de 100%. Ce secteur est actuellement en effervescence.
Plusieurs centaines de PME de 1'entretien routier ont vu le jour . Le dernier appel d'offres
de cantonnage a obtenu 700 achats de dossier et 400 soumissions. L'impact des routes
rehabilitees et entretenues se fait deja sentir au niveau des transporteurs et des operateurs
economiques.
Un mecanisme de financement perenne des travaux d'entretien routier dit << Fonds
Routier > a ete mis en place par Decret n98/162 du 26 aout 1998. Le fonctionnement de
ce mecanisme A ce jour a redonne confiance aux operateurs et PME du secteur qui petit a
petit, oublient les impayes et les retards de paiement de l'epoque. II n'y a plus
23



accumulation de la dette interieure.
Une loi portant protection du patrimoine routier a ete adoptee cf. n96/07 du 08 avril 1996
et ses textes d'application dlabores. Des contr6les de charges ont lieu sur la route Douala -
Yaound6 et Yaounde - Ayos depuis 1997. Ces contr6les se traduisent deja par une baisse
significative des surcharges.
iii)    Location du materiel de g6nie civil
La libre activite de location du materiel de genie civil a et confirmee, et le MATGENIE
restructure en consequence pour etre privatise.
iv)    Protection de l'environnement
Des directives ont ete e1abor&es et ont ete mises en place ; une Cellule de protection de
1'environnement creee au sein du MINTP. La protection de 1'environnement fait desormais
partie integrante des projets routiers.
Pistes rurales
Une proposition de strategie a ete elaboree et est en cours d'experimentation avec l'aide
des bailleurs de fonds integrant la participation des populations ben6ficiaires a l'entretien
routier. Une Cellule des pistes rurales a e  mise en place. Une phase experimentale pour la
mise en ceuvre de la strat6gie a eu lieu et un important programme de rehabilitation des
pistes rurales base sur les resultats atteints sur le terrain est desormais en cours de mise en
aeuvre.
Contr6le geotechnique
En ce qui concerne les prestations geotechniques, Labogenie a et6 restructur6 et son r6le
drastiquement rdduit A celui d'un laboratoire de reference pour le compte de
l'Administration. L'activite geotechnique a ete liberalise et plusieurs laboratoires priv6s
sont cr6es.
Programmation des travaux d'entretien routier
Une Cellule de programmation a e  creee a la Direction des Routes et un systeme de
programmation des travaux d'entretien routier a e  mise en place.
Transport routier inter urbain
Le transport routier inter urbain a de tout temps ete execute par le prive, le PPRT n'a
cependant pas permis d'ameliorer ses conditions d'efficacite en matiere de fiscalite, de
gestion, de securite, de fornation des transporteurs, et d'allegement des contrBles.
Transport routier urbain
Les activit6s de la SOTUC ont ete arretees, la SOTUC liquidee. Le decret n97/075/PM a
liberalise le transport routier urbain de personnes.
Cependant, ce secteur souffre de l'etat de la voirie, des mesures fiscales contraignantes, du
flou institutionnel et d'un cadre reglementaire inacheve. La reforme n'a pas reussi a
24



ameliorer les activites de ce sous-secteur bien au contraire, se deplacer en ville est devenu
un v6ritable calvaire. L'insuffisance de l'offre de transport a donne lieu A la forme de
transport par moto (2 roues) , qui est tres dangereuse au point de vue securit6. La reforme
n'a pas pu diminuer les contr6les de police qui se sont plut6t multiplies. Le nouveau cadre
reglementaire inacheve a accentue le desordre.
Transport ferroviaire
Les activites de transport ferroviaire ont e  concedees a un operateur prive, CAMRAIL;
la REGIFERCAM est en cours de liquidation, un programme de rehabilitation des routes
de dessertes des gares ferroviaires susceptibles d'etre fermees est en cours de mise en
ceuvre. Un programme de rehabilitation du materiel et du systeme de communication a ete
convenu avec les principaux bailleurs de fonds. Avec la r6forme, I'activite ferroviaire
semble reprendre.
Transit
Des mesures de facilitation du transit ont ete mises en place. Une convention a ete sign6e
entre le Tchad et la RCA ;cette convention instaure la vignette speciale, le sauf conduit
international pour les vehicules et quatre (4) points de contr6le des vehicules. Un
important programme de r6habilitation des itin6raires routiers de transit convenu avec les
bailleurs de fonds et dans le cadre sous regional a et arret6 et est en cours de mise en
ceuvre.
Transport aerien
i) Gestion des aeroports
La gestion des principaux aeroports a e  confi6e A un operateur priv6 (ADC). Cependant,
il n'est pas encore tout A fait note une amelioration dans la gestion des aeroports. Les
differentes conventions pass6es avec 1'ASECNA et la CAMAIR connaissent des difficult6s
d'application.
ii) ActivitJ de transport aerien
Une loi portant regime de l'Aviation Civile a et promulguee cf. loi n98/029 du 24
decembre 1998. Cette loi liberalise les services aeriens et institue une autorite
aeronautique. Elle permet la charterisation de la destination Cameroun, confirmee par
decret.
Transport maritime
La loi 97/022 du 30 decembre 1997 liberalise le transport maritime, supprime les
attestations de reservation, les commissions et la redevance CNCC, abolit la r6partition des
cargaisons et induit la reforme de cette structure. L'application de cette loi se traduit dejA,
de l'avis meme des operateurs, par une reduction du taux du fret maritime de 15 a 20% et
une plus grande frequentation du port par les compagnies maritimes.
Un comite de facilitation du transport maritime a e  mis en place par decret n97/7 1 5/PM
du 29 d6cembre 1997 avec notamment un sous-comite du guichet unique. L'objectif de ce
25



comite est de reduire les delais de passage des marchandises au Port de Douala A 7 jours A
l'importation et 2 jours A 1'exportation A l'horizon 2002.
La loi 95/09 du 30 janvier 1995 facilite l'acces A l'industrie des transports maritimes et
para maritimes. Son application se traduit par une eclosion de petits transitaires, agents
maritimes et commissionnaires en Douane au niveau du Port de Douala.
Secteur portuaire
La loi n98/021 portant organisation du secteur portuaire a ete promulguee le 24 decembre
1998, creant ainsi l'Autorite Portuaire Nationale, les Organismes Portuaires Autonomes et
prevoyant le transfert au secteur prive des activites commerciales et industrielles dans
chaque port. Elle institue des Comites Consultatifs d'Orientation aupres de chaque
organisme portuaire autonome. Les differents decrets organisant ces structures ont ete pris.
Le Comite Consultatif pour le Port de Douala a ete constitue et s'est deja saisi du dossier
des tarifs portuaires.
Un plan d'actions de reduction des delais et des coats a et adopte de meme que le statut
du guichet unique sous forme de GIE. Un manuel des procedures de passage de
marchandises au Port de Douala. Une strategie de dragage perenne du chenal.
Le port s'est desengage des travaux de dragage, A travers, dans un premier temps, un
contrat de gr6 A gr6 avec la SDCA (Societe de Dragage de la Cote d'Afrique), qui a porte
la profondeur du chenal de -5,4m a -6,5m, dans un deuxieme temps, un appel d'offres
international a ete lance pour le maintien de cette profondeur et son amelioration jusqu'a -
7m.
Une strategie de rehabilitation des infrastructures et equipements au port de Douala a e
pr6par6e et en cours de mise en couvre. Les resultats au niveau des armateurs et des
compagnies maritimes sont appreciables, car l'acces au Port de Douala a ainsi ete
am6liore, le nombre de bateaux qui y accoste a augment6.
APPRECIATION GENERALE
Prealablement a la signature du PPRT en 1995, la Banque Mondiale a modifie plusieurs
fois la strategie A suivre, ce qui a entrain^ du temps perdu entre 1990 et 1995.
Cela a sans doute eu pour cause, la grande resistance au changement de certains
fonctionnaires et membres du Gouvernement camerounais, mais aussi aux trop nombreux
changements des experts du bailleur de fonds. En particulier, A la Banque Mondiale les
changements d'experts n'ont pas toujours et judicieux. Par contre, un projet comme celui
des chemins de fer qui a concerne une seule equipe d'experts a beaucoup mieux fonctionne
que le projet routier qui a connu des dizaines d'experts.
II faut aussi rappeler que les premieres evaluations du secteur ont eu lieu des 90-91 par
I'audit du chemin de fer (en decembre 1990) puis d'un seminaire sur la strategie de
1'entretien routier (1991), d'une evaluation du secteur routier (en juin-juillet 1992), un
seminaire sur le transport maritime (reforme CNCC) en 1993, un seminaire sur le transport
26



urbain en 1994, et enfin une table ronde et une evaluation du secteur portuaire (1997) .
Les experts ont aussi developpe de grandes idees dont certaines etaient tout simplement
inapplicables. A titre d'exemple, a 1'epoque, il fallait a tout prix supprimer le CNIC
(Chantier Naval et Industriel du Cameroun), alors qu'aujourd'hui, bien qu'aucun bailleur
de fonds classique n'y ait apporte des fonds, cette societe d'Etat gagne beaucoup d'argent
dans la reparation des plates formes off-show. Autre exemple, il etait clair 90/91 que les
six premiers projets routiers etaient des echecs et les experts ont continue A discuter sans
reelles solutions concretes pour stopper la degradation du reseau routier. De plus,
I'absence d'activite d'entretien routier a completement demotive les cadres et agents
camerounais du secteur; ce qui peut 8tre facilement constate aujourd'hui dans les services
provinciaux.
Le recourt systematique aux experts internationaux n'a pas toujours permis de trouver des
solutions aux problemes locaux. On est meme parfois arriv6 A estimer que le credit IDA a
servi a financer les consultants internationaux qui, malheureusement n'ont pas ete d'un
grand apport pour faire avancer les reformes. Celles-ci, etant avant tout une question de
volont6 politique beaucoup plus qu'une question de richesse de CV et d'experience
internationale.
27



FINAL EVALUATION OF THE TRANSPORT REFORM PREPARATION PROJECT
Summary of Report from the Government
The Transport Reform Preparation Project (PPRT), launched in 1992, was designed to assist the
Government with:
(i)    Preparation and implementation of its Transport Sector Reform Program, which called for:
adoption of strategic planning; creation of a new, private sector airline; privatization of the rail
transport system; dismantling of SOTUC; privatization of CAMSFHP and CAMTAINER,
reorganization of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Public Works; and liberalization
of air, maritime, urban, etc. transport.
(ii)   Continuation of preparations for the next investment steps (roads and transport infrastructure):
development of a multi-year road maintenance programming system; privatization of road
maintenance works; restructuring of the port; organization of continuous dredging of the Wouri
Channel; reduction of port freight charges and freight transit times; and facilitation of transit in
general.
Major progress was seen on all these fronts, except that of CAMAIR. The project enabled the
Government to achieve the following results:
> Reform of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Public Works, enabling them to focus on
their new roles: policy formulation, planning, programming, budgeting, and oversight.
* Rail transport: These activities were handed over on a concession basis to a private operator,
CAMRAIL, and REGIFERCAM is in the course of being dismantled.
>. SOTUC: This corporation was dismantled under Decree 97/075/PM, which liberalized urban road
passenger transport. Unfortunately, liberalization has not improved taxation, management, security,
or transport operator training in the subsector, or simplified checks and controls.
CAMSHIP/CAMTAINER:
(i)    Maritime transport was liberalized by Law 97/022, which eliminated hold reservation
certification, commissions, and the fee payable to CNCC (Conseil national des chargeurs du
Cameroun). In the opinion of operators, introduction of this legislation has already reduced
maritime freight rates by 15-20%. A One-Stop Window subcommittee was formed with a
mandate to reduce freight transit times in the Port of Douala.
(ii)   The Port Sector Organization Law, which came into force on December 24, 1998, created the
National Port Authority and the Autonomous Port Enterprises, and made provision for
transfer of port commercial and industrial activities to the private sector. SDCA (Societt de
dragage de la C6te d'Afrique) has taken over dredging operations and has increased the depth
of the [Wouri] Channel from 5.4 to 6.5 meters.
* Road Maintenance: All road maintenance works are now being carried out by private firms. A Road
Fund, created under Decree 98/162 of August 26, 1998, is now in full operation.
*. Civil engineering equipment leasing is now a reality.
*. An Environmental Protection Unit has been formed within the Ministry of Public Works.
* A Rural Roads Unit has been created and a major program for the rehabilitation of rural roads is
being launched
* A Road Maintenance Works Planning Unit has been set up within the Roads Department.
* Geotechnical activities have been liberalized.
28



Republic of Cameroon
Transport Reform Preparation Project (Cr. 2703 CM)
Supervision Mission
(May 24-31, 1999)
Aide-Memoire
Introduction
1.   Mr. Kingson Apara, World Bank Senior Operations Officer and Task Manager, visited Cameroon
May 24-31, 1999 to conduct a supervision mission in connection with the Transport Reform Preparation
Project (Cr. 2703-CM). The purpose of the mission was to assess the status of the Project and ascertain
what needed to be done to ensure that credit closure would proceed smoothly and that the Government's
contribution to the final evaluation report (implementation completion report) would be submitted on
time.
The mission worked with staff from the Coordination Unit and wishes to thank Cameroonian
officials for the warm welcome extended to it.
The Bank will send confirmation to the Government of the content of the aide-mbmoire left by the
mission after the mission has left.
Financial status of the Project
2.   On April 30, 1999 the credit was opened in the amount of SDR 6,540,206. Of this amount, SDR
5,630,749 were disbursed. At project closure the credit is expected to amount to SDR 6,747,000, in
which case the remaining SDR 153,000 could be cancelled. The mission asked the Project Coordination
Unit to take the necessary steps to ensure that project activities which are under way or about to begin are
completed prior to project closure, scheduled for June 30, 1999. The mission reminded the Unit that
following project closure, until closure of the credit account, the Bank will be unable authorize
withdrawals in respect of services completed prior to project closure. Plans for project activities and
disbursements were updated during the mission.
Project budget
3.   The TSP midterm  supervision mission decided to strengthen existing TSP structures by
establishing a special unit within the TSP Coordination Unit to monitor PUER, setting up teams to
monitor the rural road component of TSP in the three provincial offices of MINTP in question, and
strengthening contracting procedures within MINTP. Once these structures are functioning the operating
budget originally approved by IDA will have to be increased. The relevant budget supplement has been
submitted to IDA for non-objection.
Financial management of the Project
4.   The mission was pleased to note that the auditing process is up to date. The most recent special
account audit reports for the current fiscal year are to be furnished to the World Bank by December 31,
1999 and will indicate project status as of the project account closure dates. Project officials should take
all necessary steps to ensure that the special account is closed and that any surplus is returned to IDA.
29



IDA has given its non-objection to financing the amendment to the master contract with the
auditing firm Akintola Williams & Co. under Credit 2703-CM. Since the services covered by the
amendment will not have been provided in full prior to project closure, the Coordination Unit
should recommend alternative arrangements to IDA for ensuring that the audit reports will be
prepared once the services have been provided. The same is true for the following contracts:
* Support for financial and accounts management (RIQUIER)
* Program officer for the TSP Unit (Enongene)
*  Establishment of a transport database (SNC-LAVALIN)
* Contract with the financial analyst (Raffic)
The mission observed that only 10 percent of the taxes generated under the Project have been paid. It
wishes to underscore the importance of collecting them more rapidly, since they represent the bulk of the
Government's contribution to the Project.
Additional measures to ensure smooth project closure
5.   This component of the mission focused on (i) the status of compliance with the legal covenants
contained in the Credit Agreement, (ii) arrangements to ensure that the Government submits its
contribution to the final report on project execution (implementation completion report) in a timely
manner, (iii) arrangements to ensure the sustainability of project achievements (plans for future
operation), and (iv) Y2K certification of project computer and electronic systems.
Status of compliance with legal covenants
6.   Those responsible for project coordination should see to it that audit reports prepared upon project
completion are submitted to IDA by December 31, 1999 at the latest (see paragraph 4 above). The final
quarterly activity reports and final project report should reach IDA by August 31, 1999.
Arrangements concerning the implementation completion report
7.   Bank management should provide the Board of Executive Directors with an implementation
completion report, accompanied by the borrower's final evaluation, within six months of project closure.
In accordance with the General Conditions, the Government is required to prepare its own final evaluation
report on the project and to help the Bank prepare the implementation completion report.
8.   The Government's final evaluation report should normally not exceed 10 pages. If it is longer, the
government should attach a summary. The report should include the following components:
* an assessment of the project objective, design, implementation, and operation experience;
* an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the
project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future;
*  an assessment of the performance of the Bank and any cofinanciers during the evolution and
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationships among the borrower,
the Bank, and cofinanciers, with particular emphasis on lessons learned.
30



Supportforpreparation of thefinal report
9.   The Government is required to assist the Bank in preparing the implementation completion report.
This support generally consists of:
*  providing the Bank with all necessary information on the economic, financial, social, institutional,
and environmental conditions in which the project was implemented, and on the implementation and
operation results (according to the timing specified in the Credit Agreement);
* providing feedback on the quality of the Bank's contribution, from project identification to
implementation;
* participating in the final mission and in relevant discussions among the Bank, the implementing
agencies, and confinanciers; and
* providing comment on the Bank staff's draft ICR within two months of receiving it. In this
connection, the Bank will make every effort to provide the draft ICR by August 31, 1999.
Preparation of a plan forfuture operation of the project
10. Appropriate steps should be taken to guarantee project sustainability and ensure that full advantage
will be taken of project achievements following project closure. The plan should be furnished to IDA
along with the Government's final evaluation report.
Y2K compliance
11. A plan of action should be developed to ensure that project computer and electronic systems are
Y2K compliant. IDA and the Coordination Unit have already agreed on the steps to be taken and on the
terms of reference for external support.
31






IBRD 24029
UDEAC
REGIONAL POLICY REFORM PROGRAM
TRANSPORT FACILITATION COMPONENT
Infrastructure Communication Links
ALGEIA                          L BYA
NIGER          )       CA
Af ac HoWUDAN
Cheni   _ OSO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Noebr 1992
,x~~~N'DpImeno  
EJ_trRICANRBI
AHG0tic_Y 
tf   WAB~MkOR ROD            NAIOA CAPITlS
Afuntic~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nvme N o1992sh=\l



