CREDIT NUMBER 2703 CM
Development Credit Agreement
(Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DatediA/VLL    c 9                 ,1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2703 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated JaAV           7                     , 1995, between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    by agreement dated March 23, 1995 (the FAC Grant Agreement), the
Minister of Cooperation of the French Republic through the F-onds d'Aide et de
Coop6ration has agreed to make a grant (the FAC Grant) to the Borrower in an
approximate aggregate principal amount equivalent to $1,400,000 to assist in financing
parts of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the FAC Grant Agreement;
(C)    by agreement dated April 9, 1994 (the EU Grant Agreement), the
European Union (EU) has agreed to make a grant (the EU Grant) to the Borrower in an
approximate aggregate principal amount equivalent to $ 6,800,000 to assist in financing
parts of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the EU Grant Agreement;
(D)    by agreement dated November 3, 1994 (the BMZ Grant Agreement),
Bundesministerium lit Zusammenarbeit (BMZ) has agreed to make a grant (the BMZ
Grant) to the Borrower in an approximate aggregate principal amount equivalent to
$500,000 to assist in financing parts of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in the BMZ Grant Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditionrt Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)    "MINEFI" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for economy
and finance;
(b)    "MINT" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for transport;
(c)    "MINTP" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for public
works;
(d)    "CTS" means the Comit      Technique de Suivi des Programmes
Econoniques within MINEFI comprising representatives of the Borrower's ministries
concerned with the execution of adjustment reforms and programs;
(e)    "Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit" means the unit established
by the Borrower, under the umbrella of the CTS, to assist MINT and MINTP in the
preparation and execution of the Transport Sector Reform Program;
(f)    "Transport Sector Reform Program" means the comprehensive midterm
reform program which the Borrower is formulating and intends to execute over a three-year
period in the transport sector in order to enable said sector to resume its contribution to
economic development;
(g)    "Project Implementation Plan" means the guidelines for Project
implementation, including, inter l monitoring indicators, sample bidding documents and
terms of reference for consulting services, as referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
(h)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;
(i)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advances
granted by the Bank and the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters
dated March 19, 1990, October 19, 1990, September 28, 1993, September 30, 1993, April
21, 1994 and April 26, 1994 between the Borrower and the Bank and the Association; and
(j)    "CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means Franc de la Communaut Financitre en
AfiLque Centrgle, the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 6,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Bank and itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as
of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in


﻿-4-
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall repay
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 2005 and ending March 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2015 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid.
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include,
in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the


﻿-5-
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through MINEFI, MINT and MINTP, under the overall coordination of the CTS,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices and with due regard to environmental factors, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Excepi as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives;
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    Without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts for the Special Account audited in
accordance with said paragraph (b) every four months during the
first twelve months after the Effective Date and every six months
during the second twelve months after the Effective Date; and
(ii)   furnish to the Association, not later than two months after the end
of the period audited, a certified copy of the report of any such
audit.
(d)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-7-
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audits
referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section and that the
report of any such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year (or such other period referred to in
paragraph (c) of this Section), together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Scotion 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the following
additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)    Subject to paragraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or
loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)    Paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Association that:


﻿-8-
(i)    such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and
(ii)   adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the following
additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    the Borrower shall have entered into a multi-year contract with an auditing
firm employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and
(b)    the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association the Project
Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for economy
and finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:              Telex:
MINEFI                      8260 KN
Yaound6
With copy to:
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
Yaound6
Republic of Cameroon
Telex:
8858 KN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-10-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           j,N,j K[t~~LJ~ .J   &   f
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Goods                               140,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(2) Consultants' services and                          100%
studies for:
(a)  Support to institutional     1,880,000
development
(b) Institutional development       70,000
studies
(c) Policy support                  70,000
(d) Project implementation        2,210,000
and preparation
(3) Training and seminars               540,000        100%
(4) Operating costs                     210,000        100%


﻿-12-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category               SD   Equivalent)         to be Financed
(5) Refunding of Project           1,410,000           Amount due pur-
Preparation Advance                               suant to Section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                     370,000
TOTAL                     6.900,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of
any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)    the term  "operating costs" means mission travel and subsistence
allowances for local staff, salaries of local staff employed on a contractual basis, operation
and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and office supplies, all related to the Project.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the preparation of its
Transport Sector Reform Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Institutional Development
1.     Support to the following activities:
(a)    Civil Aviation: preparation of the privatization of the national airline
(CAMAIR), including the provision of financial and legal advisors' services.
(b)    Railroad: preparation of a concession agreement for the operation of rail
services, presently operated by REGIFERCAM.
(c)    Urban Transport: preparation of the liquidation of the urban bus
company (SOTUC), including the provision of services of a liquidator and technical
assistance to the monitoring committee.
(d)    Maritime Transport: (i) preparation of the privatization/liquidation of the
national shipping line (CAMSHIP) and the national freight forwarder and road transport
enterprise (CAMTAINER), including the provision of financial and legal advisors'
services; and (ii) preparation of CNCC restructuring.
(e)    Road Maintenance: (i) preparation of the progressive State retrenchment
from road maintenance execution; (ii) coordination of road maintenance activities; and
(iii) support to the rural roads maintenance organization and financing.
(f)   Ert: preparation of the reorganization of the port authority concerning
its operational and financial management.
(g)    Transit Facilitation: preparation of the establishment of the TIPAC
customs duty guarantee system.
(h)    Ministry of Economy and Finance: strengthening the services in charge
of privatization in the Ministry.


﻿-14-
(i)    Strengthening the technical capabilities of the Transport Interministerial
Coordination Unit.
2.     Carrying out studies:
(a)    Review of the role and organization of MINT aiming at strengthening its
planning, regulatory and policy preparation capability.
(b)    Review of the role and organization of MINTP with a focus on planning,
programming, managing and supervising road maintenance works.
(c)    (i) Establishment of a road maintenance fund; and (ii) harmonization and
simplification of the road taxation system.
(d)    (i) Review of urban transport institutions; and (ii) preparation of a plan
of actions for road safety.
(e)    Port dredging reorganization.
(f)    Assessment of the capability of local consultants in transport and public
works.
(g)    Reduction of transport costs at Douala port.
(h)    (i) Preliminary analysis of operational and financial management of
CAMAIR; (ii) preparation of the privatization of airports; and (iii) evaluation of
CAMAIR personnel.
(i)    Rehabilitation of LABOGENIE and MATGENIE.
Part B:       Policy Support
Support to privatization/liberalization, including an update of the regulatory
framework, for:
(a) urban transport;
(b) air transport;
(c) maritime transport; and
(d) the transit sector of international trade.


﻿- 15-
Part C:       Support to Project Preparation and Implementation
(a)    Carrying out: (i) financial audits for the following public enterprises:
CAMAIR, REGIFERCAM, SOTUC, CAMSHIP and CAMTAINER; and (ii) a study of
legal obligations of said enterprises towards their creditors.
(b)    Road Maintenance: (i) carrying out pluri-annual programming studies
for earth and paved roads maintenance; (ii) preparation of a mitigation plan to address
environmental issues in road maintenance; (iii) implementation of a road data bank; (iv)
monitoring of bridges' condition; (v) coordination of all externally-financed road
maintenance activities; (vi) creation of a road documentation unit; and (vii) carrying out
engineering studies for a priority road maintenance program.
(c)   Eor: (i) carrying out a study on the location of the dry dock; (ii)
engineering design for the rehabilitation of the dredger; and (iii) analysis of dredging
materials.
(d)    Transit Facilitation: (i) support to the improvement of the computerized
system for customs declaration and the relocation of said system; and (ii) carrying out a
study to define insurance organization for the TIPAC regional customs duty guarantee
_ ystem.
(e)    Rail Transport: carrying out: (i) a feasibility study for track
rehabilitation; (ii) a feasibility study on a program of telecommunications; and (iii) a
study on access roads to the railway stations.
(f)    Road Transport: (i) on-going computerization of vehicle certification;
and (ii) monitoring of trucks' load for protecting road assets.
(g)    Strengthening the administrative and financial management capabilities
of the Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit.
(h)    Carrying out a program of training and seminars related to: (i) road
maintenance, transport management and to the implementation of the TIPAC customs
duty guarantee system; and (ii) MINT and MINTP young professionals.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A:       Bidding
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $80,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $210,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association consistent with the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992
(the Guidelines), including the following:
(a)    all bids shall be opened in public, allowing bidders or their representatives
to attend;
(b)    precise quantitative and monetary criteria shall be used in bid evaluation;
(c)    there shall be no negotiation between bid opening and contract award; and
(d)    contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder.
Part B:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to


﻿-17-
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix I
to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). All letters of invitation packages, including short lists, terms of reference,
letters of invitation and evaluation criteria, and evaluation reports and draft contracts, shall
be subject to prior review by the Association. For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.     Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)    short lists shall include at least three consulting firms or individual
consultants, but no more than six, with no more than two from the same country;
(b)    neither a bid security nor any other guaranty of similar nature shall be
requested; and
(c)    quality shall be the main criterion for selection.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.     In addition to its role of supervision of economic programs, MINEFI shall be
responsible under the Project for activities related to privatization and liquidation of
public enterprises. MINT and MINTP shall be responsible for Project activities related
respectively to transport and public works. The Transport Interministerial Coordination
Unit shall continue to assist MINT and MINTP in the preparation and execution of
reforms in the transport sector and shall have overall responsibility under the supervision
of MINEFI for Project administration and bookkeeping. The head of said Unit shall
have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
2.     The Borrower shall ensure that all its departments or agencies responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof shall comply with the procedures included in
the Project Implementation Plan.
3.     Prior to the starting of major assignments by consultants employed in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall
designate local counterparts to said consultants, under terms of reference and with
qualifications satisfactory to the Association.
4.     (a)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    not later than November 30, 1996, carry out jointly with the
Association a midterm review to assess the progress made in the
execution of the Project and promptly thereafter implement the
recommendations of said midterm review as they shall have been
agreed upon with the Association; and
(ii)   three months prior to such review, furnish a report to the
Association covering progress in all aspects to be received during
the midterm review.
(b)    The midterm review shall cover, inter alia: (i) progress in meeting
Project's objectives; (ii) overall Project performance against established and agreed key
performance indicators; (iii) progress in implementing study recommendations; and (iv) the
performance of the consultants under the Project.


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
CFAF 130,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
an amount equivalent to CFAF 65,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawais from
the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,900,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)    (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 20-
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) and (c) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect
of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿-21-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
F       C
FOR SECRETARY


