OFFICIAL
DOCUMTS        LOAN NUMBER 1986 JO
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Power Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1986 JO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 2           , 1981, between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan
as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project, with the exception of Part C thereof, will
be carried out by Jordan Electricity Authority (hereinafter called
JEA) and Jordanian Electric Power Company Limited (hereinafter
called JEPCO) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to JEA and JEPCO
the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set fdrth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and JEA and
JEPCO, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "Project Agreements" means the agreements between the
Bank and JEA and JEPCO, respectively, of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreements and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreements;
(b) "JEA Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
between the Bank and JEA;
(c) "JEPCO Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
between the Bank and JEPCO;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and JEA and JEPCO, respec-
tively, pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(e) "JEA Law" means the Jordan Electricity Authority Law No.
21 of 1967 establishing JEA, as amended by Law No. 46 of 1973 and
as further amended by General Electricity Law No. 8 of 1976, and
as the same may be further amended from time to time;
(f) "JEPCO Concession Agreement" means the agreement dated
November 12, 1962 among the Borrower, Jordanian Electric Power
Company Ltd., and Jordan Central Electric Company, S.A.; and
(g) "JEPCO Articles of Association" means JEPCO's Articles
of Association dated September 28, 1978, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in


﻿- 3 -
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to each of the Project Agreements.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum or the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Director General of JEA, or such other
person as said Director General may authorize in writing, is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative and financial practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for this purpose.


﻿-4-
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause JEA and JEPCO, respectively, to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreements all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, including the necessary foreign
exchange, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable JEA and JEPCO to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend from the proceeds of the Loan:
(i) to JEA an amount not exceeding the equivalent of five million
dollars ($5,000,000); and (ii) to JEPCO an amount not exceeding
the equivalent of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000); under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements containing terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, including that JEA and JEPCO
shall bear the exchange risk on such amounts and that such amounts
shall bear interest and be repayable on the same terms as the
Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1982, submit to the Bank for its review and comments a plan
for: (i) strengthening the planning and management of the energy
sector; and (ii) improving coordination among energy-related
institutions in Jordan.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower to carry
out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ not later
than December 31, 1981 qualified energy consultants.
(b) Not later than December 31, 1982 the Borrower shall
submit to the Bank a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, of
actions to be undertaken to implement such appropriate recommen-
dations as are made by the energy consultants employed under
paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall. be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Fank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on oth"r public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) aay
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, itcluding gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or ex-
change stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take action necessary to
cause its departments and agencies to pay, not later than Septem-
ber 1, 1981, all outstanding electricity bills owed by them


﻿- 6 -
to JEPCO and thereafter pay electricity bills, not later than six
weeks after their issuance by JEPCO.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all action necessary for JEA and JEPCO to comply with the provi-
sions of Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the JEA Project Agreement
and Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the JEPCO Project Agreement, res-
pectively.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) JEA or JEPCO shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under the Project Agreements;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that either JEA or JEPCO will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreements;
(c) the JEA Law, the JEPCO Concession Agreement or the JEPCO
Articles of Association shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of JEA or JEPCO to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreements; and
(d) JEA or JEPCO shall have become unable to pay its debts
as they mature or any action or proceedings shall have been taken
by JEA, JEPCO or others whereby any of the property of JEA or
JEPCO shall or may be distributed among its crertitors.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower, JEA and JEPCO; and


﻿-7-
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and JEA and JEPCO, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized
or ratified by JEA and JEPCO, respectively, and are legally
binding upon JEA and JEPCO in accordance with their terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and JEA and JEPCO,
respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and JEA
and JEPCO in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date C. 4tA4A0666  1    , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Sectlon 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the National Planning Council
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
National Planning Council
P.O. Box 555
Amman
Jordan
Cable address:                      Telex:
NPC                                 21319 JO
Amman
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByL(         1.-1%-
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
I.   Part A of the Project:
(1) Rural Elec,"ri-         4,000,000        100% of for-
fication                                eign expendi-
tures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(2) Consultants'              500,000        100% of foreign
services                                expenditures
II. Part B of the Project:
(3) Urban distribution     13,000,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory)
(4) Rural electri-          3,400,000        100% of foreign
fication                                expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory)


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(5) Low cost housing         1,300,000       100% of foreign
electrification                         expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory)
(6) Consultants'            1,170,000        100% of foreign
services                                expenditures
(7) Training                  130,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(8) Unallocated              1,500,000
TOTAL       25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to


﻿- 11 -
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $400,000 may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (6)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after January 1, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
(1) The construction of about 160 kilometers of 132 kV
double-circuit transmission lines to connect Aqaba,
Quweira, East Ghor, Ashrafiya and Sahab with the
national transmission networks.
(2) The extension and reinforcement of transformer sub-
stations at Irbid, Bayader, Hussein Power Station,
Amman South and Ma'an, and the construction of trans-
former substations at East Ghor, Ashrafiya, Sahab,
Quweira and Aqaba.
(3) The electrification of about 30 villages near Karak,
Tafilah, Shoubak, Ma'an and Wadi Mousa including con-
struction of 33 kV transmission lines, substations and
low voltage distribution facilities.
(4) The training of JEA staff.
Part B:
(1) The extension of an urban distribution network, includ-
ing construction of about 13 kilometers of 33 kV over-
head transmission lines and about 43 kilometers of 33 kV
cables, about 140 MVA of 33/11 kV power transformers,
and provision of equipment and materials for about 120
distribution substations and for upgrading of the
existing 6 kV distribution systems to 11 kV, and related
auxiliaries.
(2) The electrification of about 20 villages near Amman,
including construction of 33 kV transmission lines,
substations and low voltage distribution facilities.
(3) The electrification of housing developments at Zarqa,
Marqa and Quweisma, including construction of 11 kV
cables, 11 kV tranmission lines, substations and low
voltage distribution facilities.


﻿- 13 -
(4) The improvement of JEPCO's organizational structure and
managerial practices.
(5) The training of JEPCO staff.
Part C:
The strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities in energy
pricing, demand management, conservation and indigenous energy
resources development.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1985
through August 15, 1997                      960,000
On February 15, 1998                            1,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.70%
before maturity
More than three years but not                         3.40%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                           6.20%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                            8.50%
not more than fifteen
years before maturity
More than fifteen years                               9.60%
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  10   Lday of         ,198  .
FOR SECRETARY


