]Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18135
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S RtEPUBLIC OF CHINA
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2201-CHA / Loan 3286-CHA)
June 29, 1998
Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1998)
Currency = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00= 100 fen
$1.00 =Y 8.3
Appraisal: US$1.00 = Y5.22
Completion: US$1.00-Y8.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EASUR                -  Urban Development Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region
EPB(s)               -  Environmental Protection Bureau(s)
GIS                  -  Geographic Information System
ICR                  -  Implementation Completion Report
NEPA                 -  National Environmental Protection Agency
O&M                  -  Operation and maintenance
PMO                 -  Project Management Office
SAR                  -  Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                 -  Special Drawing Rights
TA(s)                -  Technical Assistance(s)
UPMIC                -  Urban Planning and Management Information Centers
Vice President                     Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director                   Yukon Huang
Sector Manager                     Keshav Varma
Task Manager                       Edouard Henri Motte



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2201-CHA / Loan 3286-CHA)
Table of Contents
PRE FA CE. ...................................................                       ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY.iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJEICTIVES.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJEcIVES.                                          3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.                            8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.                                                    8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE.                                                          9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .10
H. FUTURE OPERATION .11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .11
PART If: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Statistical Tables
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT'S ......................................................... 13
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS ............................ ............................. 14
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE ......................................................... 15
TABLE 4. CREDIT AND LOAN DISBURSEMENTS-CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............ 15
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......................................................... 16
TABLE 6. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .........................................................   17
TABLE 7. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ......................................................... 18
TABLE 8A. PROJECT COST..                                                      19
TABLE 8B. PROJECT FINANCING..                                                 19
TABLE 9. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BEN4EFITS .20
TABLE 10. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .21
TABLE 1 1. COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .22
TABLE 12. BANK RESOURCES-STAFF INPUTS .22
TABLE 13. BANK RESOURCES-MISSIONS .23
APPENDICES:
A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE .24
B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO TlHE ICR .25
C. MAP.26
This document has a restricted distribuition and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
MEDIUM-SIZED CIrIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2201-CHA / Loan 3286-CHA)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Medium-Sized Cities
Development Project in China, for which Ln. 3286-CHA in the amount of US$79.4
million and Cr. 2201-CHA in the amount of SDR 62.2 million/US$79.4 million
equivalents were approved on January 8, 1991 and made effective on April 29, 1991.
The loan and credit were closed on June 30, 1997 as originally scheduled, at
which times a balance of US$3.94 million of the loan funds allocated to the city of
Shashi was canceled at the borrower's request. The final disbursement took place on
September 11, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by ]Messrs./Mmes. Edouard H. Motte, Songsu Choi,
JoAnne S. Nickerson, and Edith Ortanez, Urban Development Sector Unit, East Asia and
Pacific Region (EASUR) and Messrs. Leon H. Miller and Chreod Ltd. (consultants) and
was reviewed by Messrs. Keshav Varma, Sector Manager, EASUR, and Yukon Huang,
Country Director, China.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission in
April 1997 and is based on materials in the project file. The Borrowers contributed to this
ICR by producing their own completion reports, in the project file and by providing
detailed comments on the Bank's ICR., shown in Appendice B.



iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2201-CHA / Loan 3286-CHA)
Evalujation Summary
Introduction
i.    When preparation of this project began a period of rapid economic development
and urban growth was well underway, and the Government of China was experimenting
with approaches to support urban development while strengthening local government to
which a large part of governmental decision authority and resources had been
decentralized. The challenge for municipalities was how best to match the growing
demand for public services with a program of efficient urban development investments
and accompanying management, fiscal and policy reforms. The Government's approach
was to set broad objectives and parameters, and encourage municipalities to experiment
within that broad framework.
ii.    The Government considered medium size cities as appropriate test cases for such
"comprehensive" development prograims encompassing a broad spectrum of economic
and infrastructure management functions decentralized to the local level. Three medium-
sized cities were chosen for this project: Changzhou in Jiangsu Province, with a
population of 538,000; Luoyang in Henan Province with 1,020,000 people; and Shashi in
Hubei Province with a population of 277,000.
Project Objectives
iii.   The project objectives were to assist the project cities to: (a) improve overall city
planning including across and within sectors; (b) increase efficiency in the utilization and
management of existing facilities; (c) strengthen resource mobilization; (d) support
expansion of economic activity; and (e) promote prudent management of environmental
resources. These were to be achieved through the introduction of planning and
management reforms and the preparation and implementation of specific infrastructure
investments consistent with such reforms.
iv.    The objectives of the project were comprehensive and very ambitious, and
reflected a desire of the Government to deal with most sectors under the responsibility of
the municipalities, and the Bank's wish to support this aim by relating them to overall
improvements to urban management practices and systems and focusing on policy issues
common across sectors. Though this is laudable, it makes for a high degree of complexity
in terms of the number of institutions involved, the range of types of components, and the
scope of the institutional improvements required. The involvement of three cities in three
dispersed provinces added to the conaplexity. This should be seen as a pilot project to



iv
demonstrate the nature and feasibility of similar projects in other medium size cities in
China.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.    The achievements of the project were substantial and satisfactory. Most
investment components were efficiently designed and implemented, contributing
substantially to development of the cities. Most institutional development objectives were
achieved through policy dialogues between the Bank team, consultants, and the
municipalities not only during implementation but to a large extent during the project
preparation. The resources available for the project permitted only a modest first step to
pursue the reforms in each of eight sectors, and their further development depends on the
capacity of the cities to continue ambitious programs of institutional improvement and
staff training. The project sustainability would depend even more on the borrowers' own
motivation and resources. Since the country's overall transition is moving essentially in
the same direction as the approaches introduced during the project preparation and
implementation, the sustainability of the project appears probable.
vi.    The objective to "improve overall city planning and management" was partially
achieved. TAs were very successful in most sectoral agencies. But, except in Changzhou,
implementation of the TAs to improve. overall planning capacity in the Planning
Commissions and Finance Bureaus began too late in the process to be useful. This delay
can be attributed largely to an inadequate understanding of the likely benefit of this
component on the part of Luoyang and Shashi and the consequent reluctance to devote
the necessary time. In the case of Changzhou, the work was focused on developing basic
financial management models and systems, which proved very satisfactory and were
disseminated to other cities by the provincial authorities.
vii.   The objective to "increase efficiency in the utilization and management of
existing facilities" was substantially achieved. The aim was incorporated through
revision of proposed infrastructure investment components. Reforms affecting utilization
of hospitals and schools were fully implemented and monitoring has shown that they had
the intended effect. Land use-transportation studies were completed and traffic
management measures put in place.
viii.   Achievement of the objective "strengthen resource mobilization" varied by
sector. Water companies made substantial progress, and housing units were constructed
and sold as planned, or in the case where subsidies were continued, at much reduced
subsidies. On the other hand, bus companies have seen their financial situation
deteriorate. Subloans for industrial renovation or expansion and for pollution control
improved on the old practice of grants or heavy subsidies by the government. Their
repayment has been a problem, with 20 percent to 40 percent of respective subloans in
arrears, though this is better than the country's banking sector overall where about 40
percent of loans are widely estimated to be non-performing.
ix.    The objective to "support expansion of economic activity" was substantially
achieved. Road and water supply projects and 26 industrial efficiency sub-projects were
completed and being fully utilized as planned.



v
x.     The objective to "promote prudent management of environmental resources" was
partially achieved. This component was strongly supported by the Environmental
Protection Bureaus (EPBs), and 12 pollution control loans to industrial enterprises were
made. Most projects were technically successful, but a few were not and there were some
repayment difficulties. Environmental impact assessments were carried out for all
industrial projects.
xi.    Project Cost and Financing. The SAR estimated project costs at $218.9 million,
plus $58.3 million in contingencies for a total of $277.2 million. Actual total costs were
$250.2 million, with local costs of $145.2 million and foreign costs of $105 million.
Bank Group financing provided totaled $162.1 million, $2.7 million more than estimated
at appraisal in US$ equivalent, due to the change in exchange rate between the US$ and
SDR. A balance of US$4.25 allocated to the city of Shashi was canceled at the
borrower's request. The project closed on June 30, 1997 as originally scheduled.
xii.   Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation: All factors important to
project success were subject to central government or more importantly, local
government control. Among the factors subject to the central government control,
devaluation of the yuan, price decontrol and rapid escalation of costs of construction
materials impacted some contracts, but problems were adequately handled. One of the
cities merged with a neighboring municipality during the project, causing considerable
administrative confusion. Public transportation policies and standards of the central
government negatively impacted on achievement of the financial objectives for bus
companies. Failures in areas that were subject mainly to local government and
implementing agencies' control included: (a) significant delays in implementing the TA
to strengthen planning and management capacity in the Planning Commissions and
Finance Bureaus; (b) weaknesses in financial planning that were never entirely remedied;
and (c) serious delays in putting in place mechanisms for collection of loans made to
enterprises.
xiii.   Bank Performance: Bank performance during preparation and supervision was
broadly satisfactory but there were some notable deficiencies related to the circumstances
of the project. Project components were generally well defined, and missions included
teams with all necessary fields of expertise which provided municipal governments'
timely advice addressing key developmental issues. However, the lack of the experience
in comprehensive urban development projects in China resulted in a few significant
shortcomings such as the project scope that was too ambitious in relation to the resources
available and difficulties the cities would have in sustaining the improvements
introduced. During the supervision, the Bank, pressed to expand its urban operation in
response to strong demand, failed to maintain early continuity in the project team or to
provide consistently high levels of supervision input that were required and planned for
this complex project. It did however draw on the experiences and understandings gained
during preparation of this project as a reference for identifying and designing other
operations.
xiv.   Borrower Performance: Borrower performance was overall satisfactory
particularly given the complexity of the project and relative inexperience of the
municipalities with the Bank. The performance was uneven among cities: Changzhou's
performance was excellent, Luoyang's adequate overall, and Shashi's less than
satisfactory. These ratings reflect the relative strengths of the local institutions. There



vi
were some significant problems experienced by all three due to their relative
inexperience in managing the Bank loan as well as the novel nature of some elements of
the project. Some TAs were delayed to the point that they made negligiblecontribution to
project success so far, financial reporting was generally weak, and management of loans
to enterprises was inconsistent and somewhat lax.
xv.    Project Outcome: In the context of the complex and fast transition that China
was undergoing and the Bank's new entry to the sector in the country, the project's
achievements should be considered satisfactory overall with some inevitable deficiencies
that did not significantly detract from the overall long term benefit. The project achieved
most but not all of its stated objectives, and sustainability is probable as most of the
reforms introduced under the project are consistent with the transition of the overall
country's economic management system.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xvi.   This project made a useful initial contribution to the planning and management
of complex, large-scale urban investments across multiple sectors in Chinese cities
undergoing a rapid transition from planned to market-based systems. The project
achievements are likely to be sustained mainly as: the new or improved approaches
introduced under the project are consistent with the country's overall transition; the
assets created under the project are valuable to the economies; and responsibilities for
operation and maintenance of the assets are clear and the organizations responsible have
the necessary financial and institutional capacities.
xvii.  Future Operation: The project also provided an invaluable learning opportunity
for the borrower and the Bank. The experience gained has been useful for identification
and formulation of similar projects now under implementation. The experience is likely
to remain useful or become even more useful for future operations as the Bank is trying
to shift its sector assistance emphasis away from narrow sectoral assistance in large cities
toward broader urban management assistance in less developed regions and cities.
xviii.  Key Lessons Learned: Multi-sectoral projects in urban areas are both needed
and, under the right circumstances, feasible. Further, these projects could provide a better
platform for significant improvement of the broad urban management systems and
sectoral policies, compared with projects focusing on narrow sectoral agenda which often
cannot be reformed within the sector itself. However, they pose significant institutional
and operational difficulties and risks. They require investment of substantial borrower
and Bank resources through the project cycle. An even more critical factor is the
borrowers commitment and capacity. The risks are inevitable but should be minimized as
much as possible in future projects by ensuring that policy and institutional development
goals are clearly defined within a feasible range, and that project cities share a common
set of problems that they are willing to implement and maintainthrough a specific set of
actions.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIE'S DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2201-CH[A / Loan 3286-CHA)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Background. When this project began, a period of rapid economic development
and urban growth in China was well underway, and the Government was experimenting
with approaches to strengthening municipal administrations. The challenge for
municipalities was how best to match the growing demand for public services with a
program of urban development investments and accompanying management, fiscal and
policy measures. The Government's approach was to set broad objectives and
parameters, and encourage municipalities to experiment within that broad framework.
Medium size cities were particularly appropriate test cases since the systems to be
changed were simpler than those in China's large urban areas. Further, the Government
had just established a regulatory framework for environmental protection and created the
National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA), and was looking for effective ways
to elaborate and implement environmental policies and regulations.
2.    Issues in the urban sector had been defined in the 1987 sector study "Zhejiang:
Challenges of Rapid Urbanization". These issues were: (a) overall planning and
management at the local level by core agencies; (b) planning and management practices
of line agencies; (c) efficient use and management of existing municipal assets; (d)
resource mobilization to reduce subsidies; and (e) the control of negative externalities
that accompany rapid economic growth, particularly environmental impacts.
3.    Three medium-sized cities were chosen for this project: Changzhou in Jiangsu
Province, with a population of 538,000:, Luoyang in Henan Province with 1,020,000
people; and Shashi in Hubei Province with a population of 277,000.
4.    Project Objectives. The project olbjectives were to assist the project cities to: (a)
improve overall city planning, including across and within sectors; (b) increase efficiency
in the utilization and management of existing facilities; (c) strengthen resource
mobilization; (d) support expansion of economic activity; and (e) promote prudent
management of environmental resources. These were to be achieved through the
introduction of planning and management reforms and the implementation of specific
infrastructure investments consistent with such reforms.
5.    Operational objectives in each of the sectors were as follows: (a) Education:
expand access to basic education, strengthen teacher training, increase skilled manpower,
and improve educational quality; (b) Health: improve the quality and availability of
health services; (c) Transport: improve the flow of traffic, public transport services, and
financial management and cost recovery in public transit; (d) Water Supply: increase



2
capacity and improve financial management and cost recovery; (e) Housing: provide
incentives to shift from subsidized rental stock to units purchased on commercial terms;
(f) Industry: assist industrial enterprises to improve efficiency, thus helping to expand the
economy; and (g) Environmental Protection: assist industries to meet water quality
discharge standards.
6.    Project Components. The principal components of the project were: (a) urban
planning and management reforms, including in each city technical assistance toward
better capital improvement planning in the Planning Commission and Finance Bureau
and the establishment of an urban planning and management center with GIS capabilities;
(b) construction and equipping of schools and teacher training; (c) construction and
equipping of health facilities and training for health officials; (d) road construction,
improvements to public transport, and completion of land use-transport studies; (e)
construction and equipping of water supply facilities; (f) construction of about 6,900
housing units for sale to households; (g) financing of specific technological restructuring
projects by municipal industrial enterprises; and (h) financing of pollution control
projects of municipal industrial enterprises and provision of pollution control equipment
for municipal Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs).
7.    Evaluation of Objectives. The objectives of the project were comprehensive and
very ambitious, and constituted an attempt to address the cross-sectoral nature of urban
issues by including many sectors and relating them to overall improvements to urban
management practices and systems. Though this is laudable, it makes for a high degree of
complexity in terms of the number of institutions involved, the range of types of
components, and the scope of the institutional improvements required. The involvement
of three cities in markedly different provinces (at the insistence of the Borrower) added
to the complexity.
8.    The Bank's initial effort to narrow down the project scope was unsuccessful in
the face of the Government's decision to have the project cover all three major spheres
that it considered were the municipality's responsibility: infrastructure, social services,
and industries. Given this scope and in view of the weak horizontal coordination of
public institutions in Chinese cities, the attempt to link sectoral interventions to an overall
management improvement plan was inevitable and appropriate. Further, the choice of
medium size cities was appropriate. The governments of medium size Chinese cities are
potentially open to improving horizontal integration, whereas in larger cities the sheer
size of the institutions involved renders the problem much more difficult. The project
was, in many respects, a pilot to test the nature and feasibility of similar projects in other
medium size cities in China.
9.    However, the scope of the project was clearly too broad for the Bank to have full
and adequate involvement in all components and objectives. This meant that the project
would provide only a modest initial step in each sector, and that progress would be
dependent on own efforts of the three cities and the broad policy direction of the country
as a whole. Given that this direction has in some respects not yet consistently flowed
down to and across the municipal level in China, the efforts of the cities themselves were,
and continue to be, central to the sustainability of key components of the project.



3
10.   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) correctly identified the major risks as being
related to the scope of the objectives and components, and the capacity of the three
municipalities to carry through such an amrbitious undertaking.
11.   Covenants. The loan covenants were generally too broad and ambiguous. In
particular, precise covenants on the housing component and the Technical Assistance
(TA) for Planning Commission and Finance Bureau should have been included. The
financial covenants for full cost recovery by the bus companies proved to be unattainable
in light of economic and structural constraints, and lack of support from municipal
officials.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
12.   In the context of the complex nature of the project and its ambitious objectives,
the achievements of the project were satisfactory overall, though a few components were
barely so. To a large extent the objectives were defined during preparation through policy
dialogue to modify the proposed project components or the governing sector
management framework. This phase of thle policy dialogue was generally successful and
resulted in appropriate project component designs and policy reform actions taken during
or shortly after project preparation. In the following the attention is focused mainly on
the additional actions during implementation.
Objective A: Improve overall city planning, including across and within sectors
13.   There were two principal interventions designed to assist the cities in achieving
this objective: a) the TA to improve planning and management control practices of the
Planning Commission and the Finance Bureau through the introduction of management
information systems and tools for annual budgeting and medium-term investment
programming; and b) establishment of Urban Planning and Management Information
Centers (UPMIC) in each city, developrment of GIS, and development of specialized
subsystems. In addition, TAs in the education, health, transport, and water and sewerage
sectors were planned.
14.   This objective was partially achieved. Despite the inherent difficulties of
institutional development, many of the targets were substantially achieved and there was
a measurable improvement in the delivery of urban services.
15.   There was a high level of success in establishment of UPMIC and development
of information systems including GIS in each city. Upon project completion these
institutions were functioning effectively and were expected to continue to do so. The TAs
in education, health, transport, and water supply were carried out successfully despite
some delays.
16.   The TA addressed to the Planning Commission and Finance Bureau was a major
problem. Only one city, Changzhou, carrlied out this TA in sufficient time to have a real
impact on the project; models developed in Changzhou were subsequently disseminated
to other cities in Jiangsu by provincial authorities. Efforts in Luoyang and Shashi were
plagued by delays on the part of i:he municipalities, reflecting an inadequate
understanding of the importance of this component. The lack of attention paid to this TA



4
in two of the cities has implications for the sustainability of some of the project's
accomplishments.
17.   Financial planning and management by all participants were generally weak. The
Project Management Offices (PMOs) were frequently unable to adequately monitor and
report on the financial status of their projects. The utilities needed considerable assistance
in being able to produce meaningful accounting reports. Finally, a number of loans to
enterprises were based on improper financial planning, in some cases resulting in
inability to repay the loan.
Objective B: Increase efficiency in the utilization and management of existing facilities
18.   This objective was to be achieved through actions in the health, education and
transport sectors. Hospital beds owned and operated by enterprises and other institutions
not directly affiliated with the municipal government were to be opened to the public;
more frequent use of pre-admission diagnosis to reduce average length of hospital stays
instituted; experimentation with home-based care carried out; and existing health
facilities rehabilitated or reconstructed with improved designs. In education, budgets for
maintenance were to be increased; new facilities built based on actual needs and
calculated utilization rates; and student-teacher ratios increased through revised standards
and higher teaching loads. In the transport sector, greater emphasis was to be placed on
public transit and traffic management measures designed to maximize use of the existing
roadway system.
19.   This objective was substantially achieved. Most targets set in the SAR were met
or exceeded. Non-municipally owned hospital beds were made available to the public;
average length of stay in all types of hospitals and in all -three cities decreased by an
average of 21 percent; childhood immunization rates increased dramatically except in
Changzhou where they were already high; infant mortality rates decreased by 21-34
percent. Indicators of hospital occupancy rates were more mixed. In city hospitals they
decreased, but in other types of hospitals they generally rose. Apparently the opening of
non-municipal hospitals to the general public caused a decrease in demand for beds in
city hospitals.
20.    Utilization rates for classrooms and labs increased dramatically and student-
teacher ratios increased at all levels, in most cases meeting targets set in the SAR.
Maintenance budgets for school buildings increased to levels at or above the targets, and
expenses for new equipment rose.
21.   In transport, each city completed a land use-transport study and prepared a
traffic plan in an effort to make better use of existing transport infrastructure and to tailor
road construction to actual levels of demand. In Luoyang and Shashi, these studies were
expanded to develop action plans to address the deteriorating financial situations of the
bus companies.



S
Objective C: Strengthen resource mobilization
22.   Activities in the transport, water, housing, and pollution control sectors were
designed to help achieve this objective. Bus and water companies were required to make
tariff adjustments and cut costs so that revenue generation would cover operations,
depreciation, bonus and welfare funds, and taxes and charges. Housing built under the
project was to be sold at prices to cover full investment costs, with owners responsible
for all maintenance. Resources were to be mobilized for pollution control through
creation of a revolving fund that financed pollution abatement measures by industrial
enterprises using the Bank loan as well as a part of pollution levy revenues that used to
be given to polluters as grants.
23.   Achievement of this objective varied by sector. It was substantially achieved in
respect of water companies. By project completion, water tariffs in most cases exceeded
targets set in the SAR and the water companies were on a solid financial footing.
24.   The objective was partially achEieved in the housing sector. Housing completion
targets were met, and a high proportion was sold at market prices. However, others were
sold to work units that proceeded to subsidize the cost, and at project completion the
Shashi Housing Company was having trouble selling its units in a depressed housing
market and was experiencing financial difficulties.
25.    Bus companies were faced with constraints imposed by national and provincial
policies and rising costs, and were unable to develop the necessary managerial responses.
Though fares were raised, costs increased and the financial situation of the bus
companies deteriorated. Thus this objectlive was not achieved in the public transit sector.
26.   In regard to the industrial pollution control revolving fund, the objective was
partially achieved. In all cases, the program was enthusiastically received by the EPB.
However, efficiency was compromised by a late start, unfamiliarity with mechanisms for
loan recovery, and a lack of planning and financial expertise on the part of enterprises.
However, a number of industrial pollution abatement projects were carried out
successfully, and the concept of a revolving fund was introduced.
Objective D: Support expansion of economic activity
27.    This objective was to be achieved through: transport initiatives in order to reduce
transport bottlenecks; construction of water treatment plants and associated pipelines to
meet industrial water demand shortfalls; and a line of credit to finance industrial
efficiency improvements.
28.    This objective was substantially achieved. Five road construction/widening
components (total 13 kilometers) were completed. Additional buses, new terminals and
depots, and extension of the trolley bus system in Luoyang were included. All planned
projects were realized with minor moclifications. As with other civil works during the
period, price increases for building materials approaching 100 percent caused some
delays and necessitated revisions to some contracts.



6
29.   In water supply, investments in Changzhou were designed to increase water
supply capacity by 200,000 m3 per day and in Shashi by 150,000 m3 per day. In
Luoyang, projects included a waterworks transformer station and associated transmission
network. All aspects of this component were substantially carried out. Volumes of water
sold increased in Changzhou by 23 percent and in Shashi by 25 percent, figures that are
slightly below the targets set in the SAR.
30.   Disbursements on industrial efficiency sub-projects were on target. There were
12 projects in Changzhou, 10 in Luoyang, and 4 in Shashi. Most were successfully
commissioned, though there were in some cases significant delays. One major sub-
project, the Silk Factory in Shashi, was still non-operational at project completion. With
the exception of Changzhou, there were difficulties in ensuring repayment of loans (70
percent in Luoyang; 60 percent in Shashi; and 95 percent in Changzhou) made to
industrial enterprises. However, efforts to strengthen this aspect of the program were
undertaken in 1997 whereby Shashi made arrangements with the Industry and Commerce
Bank of China and Luoyang with the Finance Bureau to assist in collection of loans.
Objective E: Promote prudent management of environmental resources
31.   Implemented in two of the three cities, this component provided a line of credit
to finance pollution control projects by industrial enterprises and established a revolving
loan fund to be managed by the EPB and Finance Bureau. The EPB contributed 30
percent of the fund from its collection of fines and fees for over standard discharges as
agreed.
32.   This objective was partially achieved. Twelve pollution control loans to
industrial enterprises were made (6 in Changzhou and 6 in Shashi). Most sub-projects
were technically successful. However, implementation of the revolving loan fund was
late starting up, and, as with the industrial efficiency loans, there were significant
problems in collection. Although loan agreements were signed with benefiting
enterprises at the approval of the sub-loan, the EPBs never followed on closely with the
enterprises to confirm the repayment schedule and assess their financial capacity to do so
at physical completion of the sub-project. Loan repayment rates (about 60 percent) were
comparable to those known for commercial banks. Nevertheless, the concept was
adopted successfully in the two cities.
33.   Completion of water treatment facilities and reduction in water losses at
production can also be viewed as contributions to the prudent management of
environmental resources.
Economic Rate of Return
34.      No overall rate of return was calculated in the SAR due to the large number of
components for which benefits cannot be accurately quantified. However, three sub-
components under transport were analyzed, and economic internal rates of return were
estimated at 21.6-33.5 percent, taking into account vehicle operating costs, lower
accident rates, and time savings.



7
35.      Calculation of internal rates of return was not attempted in this ICR as the
implementing agencies were unable to provide any data on time for such calculations.
However, major quantitative and qualitative benefits include: (a) better quality and more
efficient educational and health facilities and services; (b) removal of traffic bottlenecks
impeding economic growth, as well as additions to the bus and trolley fleets; (c)
significant increases to water volumes available to industry; (d) improved efficiency at
some 25 industrial enterprises; (e) more effective pollution abatement at 12 industrial
enterprises; and (f) greatly improved data bases and information systems available to
municipal officials for planning and management.
Evaluation of Program Objective Categories
36.      This project touched many sector objectives in the areas of environmental
improvement, health, education, transport, housing and land management, and industry.
Some but not all performance criteria were quantified at appraisal. Since the project was
closing in 1997, it was considered not worthwhile to identify and monitor performance
indicators during the time that other projects were being retrofitted with such indicators.
37.      Financial objectives: TAs for financial planning and management were
instituted in many parts of the municipal organization with mixed success. The change
from traditional accounting methods to commercially acceptable methods proved to be
difficult. The PMOs generally succeeded, though with significant delays. Finally,
financial expertise in many of the enterprises receiving loans was weak, necessitating
extra effort by Bank staff and consultants (paras. 17, 30 and 32). Repayment problems
with industrial and pollution control sutbloans have been significant (paras. 30 and 31),
though overall performance was better than in the banking sector of the country as a
whole.
38.      Institutional development: Institutional strengthening was a major focus of the
project. Though institutional development projects in sectoral agencies were generally
very successful, overall success was diminished by the failure of two cities to give
sufficient attention to management improvement in core agencies (Planning Commission
and Finance Bureau) and the problems with financial planning mentioned above (paras.
13-17).
39.      Physical objectives: The physical components of the project (water supply
and distribution facilities, transport facilities and equipment, schools and hospitals) were
achieved with success. Virtually all elernents were completed as planned (paras. 18-21).
40.      Poverty reduction: Though this project was not a targeted poverty
intervention, some of its components will clearly have an impact on low-income
populations. Health components have facilitated access to health care for the entire
population, and measurements of childhiood immunization rates and infant mortality rates
have already shown marked improvement. Higher quality and more efficiently managed
educational facilities should work to improve the economic opportunities open to low-
income children (paras. 18-20).



8
41.      Resettlement: A reported 912 households were affected by three projects in
Changzhou-Hongmei West Village housing, Beizhi Street housing, and Guanhe West
road widening. Resettlement was carried out successfully.
42.      Environmental objectives: Environmental impact assessments were carried
out for all industrial projects, and loans to enterprises contributed to better pollution
control, though admittedly at a small sample of the total industrial base of the three cities.
Finally, the EPBs were strengthened through provision of monitoring equipment and
experience in managing an industrial pollution control program (paras. 31-33).
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
43.   Factors not generally subject to government control: All factors important to
project success were subject to either government or implementing agency control.
44.   Factors generally subject to government control: Investment components of the
project were greatly affected by devaluation of the yuan, price decontrol, and rapid price
escalation. Coping with these unexpected changes, which was done successfully, was a
valuable learning experience for the cities. Government controls on bus company fares
and other public transit policies negatively affected efforts to make the bus companies
financially self-sufficient. Finally, midway through the project the City of Shashi merged
with the neighboring municipality of Jingzhou. This absorbed much of the municipality's
energy and caused officials to become less focused on the project.
45.   Factors subject to local government and implementing agency control: Many
impacts on project implementation were the result of actions by the local government and
implementing agencies. A key component of the project was to be the improvement of
the planning and management capacities of the Planning Commissions and Finance
Bureaus. With the exception of Changzhou, implementation of the TA projects designed
for this purpose was very slow. Work was finally completed, but it was much too late to
benefit the project, and the opportunity to test and assess the planning tools introduced
during the project was lost. Likewise, the mechanism for assuring repayment of industrial
pollution abatement loans was put in place later than anticipated and resulted in only a
moderate repayment rate. Finally, institutional strengthening of the bus companies did
not succeed, due to both the policies of higher-level governments mentioned above and
the inability of the companies to rise to the management challenge. There were some
delays in the availability of counterpart funding, but these were successfully overcome.
PMOs were slow in putting in place proper systems for reporting and project monitoring,
but with Bank assistance these systems were implemented and proved to be successful.
D. Project Sustainability
46.   Project sustainability is considered probable. Much depends on whether the cities
will be able to maintain the momentum of the planning and management reforms
introduced. To the extent that the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
overall reform directions, the sustainability is considered probable within the constraints
of institutional capacity. The reforms in health and education are on a solid footing and
the physical facilities are operating efficiently. Planned future tariff increases for water



9
and public transport, the construction of additional commercial housing, and further
development of planning and management skills cannot be guaranteed but appear likely.
Continuation of the reforms could be constrained by lack of institutional capacity, lack of
support from higher levels of government, insufficient resources, or changing priorities.
All these risks, however, appear limited in the context of continuing fast economic
growth and institutional reforms.
E. Bank Performance
47.    Bank identification of the project was satisfactory on a strategic level. The Bank
responded to the Government's request for a very broad urban development project for
the Bank's first such operation in C(hina, and used the opportunity to address the cross-
sectoral issues of resource mobilization, investment efficiency, and the poor horizontal
integration of Chinese municipa,l management which were identified as major
weaknesses of the municipalities by earlier sector work. As such it fit well with the urban
sector strategies of both the Bank and the borrower. Nevertheless, the Bank might have
been more effective if it were able to narrow the scope of the project; the Bank was
successful in dropping only a few major and difficult components in each city, such as
coal gasification and telecommunications. The broad scope of the objectives and
components was probably useful in addressing some cross-sectoral issues, but too
ambitious for the resources available to make in-depth improvements.
48.   Bank personnel were helpful in assisting the cities to prepare the project. There
were three missions prior to appraisal by a highly interdisciplinary Bank team including
specialists in urban economics, housing, transport, municipal engineering, financial
analysis, health, education, operations, and industry.
49.    Bank appraisal of the project was satisfactory. Though ver  complex,
components fit well into the framework, key TA projects were described and
responsibilities established, and significant physical components were carefully chosen
and designed. Risks resulting frorn the complexity of the project (many components,
sectors and institutions) were correctly identified. However, difficulties the cities would
likely have in adopting new concepts and procedures introduced were underestimated.
Weakness in local financial expertise was also underestimated. The project processing
had to be stopped due to a political incident in June 1989 and had to be ire-appraised
almost two years after the original appraisal.
50.    The quantity of Bank supervision-thirteen missions over the five year
implementation period and total supervision costs of US$650,000-was appropriate
considering that the project had been identified at appraisal as requiring considerable
supervision. Bank supervision of the project focused very much on resolving
implementation issues and ensuring prompt results in the use of loan proceeds, and in this
regard was very satisfactory. When the time came to work with municipalities on studies
and implementation of reforms suggested in the technical assistance inputs, composition
of Bank missions and inputs could have been more specific to the issues on hand, to
more closely align the TA with interests and appreciation of city and sector officials. In
hindsight both staff and management could have been more strongly focused on the
promotion of objectives set at appraisal on urban planning and city governance.
Therefore Bank supervision is overall rated as satisfactory.



10
F. Borrower Performance
51.   Borrower Performance was overall satisfactory though variable across cities.
Changzhou promptly carried out the physical implementation and institutional
development components (the latter to which it had strongly objected at appraisal) and
successfully went on to apply the conclusions of studies. Luoyang, which is more
conservative in its decision-making and planning process, had greater difficulty in
applying integrated planning and sectoral initiatives-largely due to a difficulty of
understanding the need for various reforms-but eventually managed Bank loan
activities satisfactorily and in a timely fashion. In Shashi, once knowledgeable decision
makers had been promoted out of the project leading group, municipal officials gave
insufficient attention to project objectives and failed to address overall project
management issues and decisions in a timely manner. The time consuming merger of
Shashi and Jinzhou, and the arrival of a new group of decisionmakers left the project
management team  in a vacuum  for major policy orientation and at best seeking
guidelines on minor decisions. Most project components got completed through
protracted negotiations of budgetary agreements. The TA for Planning Commission and
Finance Bureaus-which was to provide coordination/management capacity for all
project components-was carried out inadequately in the latter two cities.
52.   In regard to project preparation, with the help of local consultants and the Bank
all components were properly identified and described.
53.   In project implementation, there were some shortcomings in monitoring and
progress reporting, and financial statements of utilities were in some cases inadequate.
However, the cities generally responded well to the Bank's suggestions for changes and
performance improved as the project progressed. The management of loans to enterprises
was inadequate. A workable system was late in being implemented, and insufficient use
was made of the capacities of the China Investment Bank and the People's Construction
Bank of China in this task.
54.   Covenant Compliance: Eleven covenants were complied with and two others
partially complied with.
G. Assessment of Outcome
55.   Project outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The project achieved most of its
objectives and helped the three cities begin a process that should lead to better urban
management and improved services to the population in a number of sectors. Physical
investments were realized in a highly efficient manner, institutional and management
reforms with more difficulty. Sustainability is considered probable as the overall reform
in various sectors in China is consistent with the reforms supported under the project, and
the project cities are among the forerunners.
56.   Responsibilities for operation and maintenance (O&M) of most physical assets
created by the project appear to be clear. The financial and institutional capacities of the
organizations responsible for roads, water supply, hospitals and schools appear secure.
However, the bus companies are in poor financial condition, and adequate O&M will
depend on continuing subsidies from the municipal government. Finally, some of the



I1
industries receiving efficiency and pollution control loans may fail to maintain the
improvements financed through the project due to limited financial planning and
budgeting expertise.
57.    Continued monitoring by the cities' relevant departments on indicators in the
education, health, water supply and transport sectors would be highly desirable in order
to trace the long-term impacts of this project.
Il. Future Operation
58.    The project also provided an invaluable learning opportunity for the borrower
and the Bank. The experience gained has been useful for identification and formulation
of similar projects now under implementation. The experience is likely to remain useful
or become even more useful for future operations as the Bank is trying to shift. its sector
assistance emphasis away from narrow sectoral assistance in large cities toward broader
urban management assistance in less developed regions and cities.
I. Key Lessons Learned
59.      Key lessons learned from the implementation of this project include:
(a) Multi-sectoral projects in Chinese cities are needed to address the complexity
of urban issues, and can be successful if the subject cities have well prepared
programs, adequately staffed agencies, and if adequate assistance (both
financial and technical) is provided by the Bank Group. Though they are
riskier than single sector projects, they could be more effective in broad
policy advances (paras. 7-8).
(b) Such projects should either include a single city, or choose cities that are in
close proximity to reduce transaction costs. Further, the cities should share a
common set of problems that the project will address through a specific set
of actions, and should have the fiscal capacity to support loan repayments in
a timely manner. Opportunities to leverage Bank investments should be
thoroughly researched during project preparation.
(c) The most difficult component of multi-sectoral projects is equipping the core
agencies of the municipal governments to plan and manage complex
initiatives and to play their proper coordinative and control role. TAs to
address this aspect should be planned during preparation and be underway as
the first stage of implementation (para. 16).
(d) Training and skills transfer in financial planning and management is
important to project success, and should be a significant element of future
similar projects. Municipal governments and enterprises in China are
gradually converting from traditional financial management to one more
appropriate to a market economy, but the transition is only partially
complete. Bank projects cannot assume that local financial expertise will be
equal to the task (para, 17).



12
(e) Difficulties in collecting loans made to enterprises still exist in some Chinese
cities. Mechanisms to assure high rates of repayment should be in place prior
to the implementation of an enterprise loan program (paras. 30 and 32).



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2201-CHA / Loan 3286-CHA)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial       Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies               El               E             [l              X
Sector policies                      X               O              E              E
Financial objectives                 O                X             [1             E
Institutional development            El               X             El             0
Physical objectives                  X                O             E              O
Poverty reduction                    [1               E             E               X
Gender concerns                      U                O             E               X
Other social objectives/I         Unlikely            E             E              E
Environmental objectives               l              X             E              E
Public sector management             O                X             El             E
Private sector development           El              E:1            E               X
Economic benefits                    O                El            E              E
B. Project Sustainability          Likely          Unlikely      Uncertain
x               El            El
C. Bank Performance                Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                       n                x             o
Preparation assistance               E                X             O
Appraisal                              l              X             El
Supervision                          E                X             O
D. Borrower Performance            Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                            l              X             E
Implementation                       E                X             O
Covenant compliance                  O                X             O
Operation (if applicable)            E                X             O
E. Assessment of Outcome           Highly
Satisfactcry    Satisfactory    Deficient
El              x             El
/ I Resettlement.



14
Table 2. Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                    Purpose                   Approval          Status
Cr. 2219-CHA, Liaoning    (a) Improve water supply conditions and      1991    Closed on March 31,
Urban Infrastructure Project  strengthen institutions, regulations             1997; see ICR Report
management, financial and pricing policies;         No. 17550 of March
(b) Improve traffic and public transport            30, 1998
conditions in Shenyang; and (c) Improve
measures for water pollution abatement
through TA and enforcement of measures for
water pollution control.
Cr. 2387-CHA, Tianjin     (a) Reform infrastructure planning and      1992    Under implementation
Urban Development &       management systems of the municipal
Environment Project       government; (b) Correct deficiencies in
environmental sanitation and urban
transportation systems.
Cr. 2457-CHA, Changchun   (a) Improve water supply in Changchun to     1993    Under implementation
Water Supply &            meet domestic needs; (b) Reduce industrial
Environment Project       and
domestic water pollution; and (c) Create a
demonstration project to share lessons with
other municipalities
Ln. 3582-CHA, Southern    (a) Improve the formulation, monitoring and  1993    Under implementation
Jiangsu Environmental     enforcement of environmental policies and
Project                   regulations; (b) Enhance industrial point
source pollution control; (c) Improve
municipal wastewater management; (d)
Initiate toxic/hazard material and waste
management; and (e) Strengthen
environmental planning and management
capabilities of environmental protection
entities in the region.
Cr. 2475-CHA, Zhejiang    To assist the Zhejiang Province and four of  1993    Under implementation
Multi-Cities              the largest municipalities to strengthen
planning & delivery of urban services and to
support environmental policies and programs.
Ln. 3773-CHA, Cr. 2642-    To help four municipalities implement an   1994    Under implementation
CHA, Enterprise Housing &   experimental reform strategy aimed at (a)
Social Security Reform    freeing enterprises of district responsibilities
Project                   for housing and social security provision; (b)
initiating development of a market-based
housing system; (c) enhancing scope and
management of basic social security net; and
(d) facilitating enterprise system reform.



15
Table 3. Project Timetable
Date actual/latest
Steps in project cycle      Date planned                estimate
Identification                                    June 3, 1987
Preparation              January 1988             April 1988
Appraisal                July 1988                November 30, 1988
Post-Appraisal                                    August 22, 1990
Negotiations             October 1988             May 8, 1989
Board presentation       January 1989             January 8, 1991
Signing                  February 1989            January 30, 1991
Effectiveness            March 1989               April 29, 1991
Project completion       December 3, 1996         March 31, 1997*
Loan closing             June 30, 1997            June 30, 1997
* Changzhou components were completed by Dec. 31,1995.
Table 4. Credit and Loan Disbursements--Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Financial    Appraisal Estimate     Actual        Actual as % of
Year              US$              US$             Estimate
1991               3.4              3.8                112
1992              21.9              15.9                73
1993              57.2             35.9                 63
1994              40.4             51.1                127
1995              27.0             32.6                121
1996              16.3              19.2               118
1997               2.2               3.6               164
Total         168.4             162.1



16
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicator                      Targeted                        Achieved
Planning/Management Reforms
establishment of UPMIC         in 3 cities                    in 3 cities
development of GIS             in 3 cities                     in 3 cities
TA Planning Commission &       in 3 cities                     in I city
Finance Bureau
Health Sector
management reforms             in 3 cities                     in 3 cities
civil works                    $9.18 million
new equipment                  $3.33 million
TA & training
Education Sector
management reforms             in 3 cities                     in 3 cities
civil works                    $17.63 million
new equipment                  $5.89 million
TA & training
Transport Sector
management reforms             in 3 cities                     in 3 cities
land use-transport study       in 3 cities                     in 3 cities
traffic management schemes     in 3 cities                     in 3 cities
road projects
public transit projects
TA & training                  in 3 cities                     in 3 cities
Water Sector
management reforms             in 3 cities                     in 3 cities
Changzhou                      200,000 m3 capacity
Luoyang                        transformer station &
transmission lines
Shashi                         150,000 m3 capacity
TA and training                in 3 cities                     in 3 cities
Housing Sector
management reforms             in 3 cities                     in 3 cities
Changzhou                      4200 units
Luoyang                        1100 units
Shashi                         1600 units
TA & training
Industry Sector
line of credit                 in 3 cities                    in 3 cities
Changzhou enterprise loans     $27.5 million
Luoyang enterprise loans       $20.5 million
Shashi enterprise loans        $18.1 million
TA & training
Pollution Control Sector
Changzhou revolving fund       $4.39 million
Shashi revolving fund          $4.05 million
TA& training                   in 2 cities                     in 2 cities



17
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
Changzhou                            Luoyang                        Shashi
Base       Appraisal             Base       Appraisal             Base    Appraisal
Performance Indicators        Year 1987  Estimate  Actusil   Year 1987  Estimate   Actual Year 1987 Estimate  Actual
Education
Classroom Utilization (%)       60          80      84          60         75       80        60        80         75
Lab (%)                         30          75      76          30         70       75       30         60         50
Student Teacher Ratios
Primary                          1:19        1:25    1:25         1:19       1:26    1:27      1:21       1:25      1:24
Lower Secondary                  1:13        1:21    1:21         1:15       1:20    1:20      1:11      1:20       1:18
Senior                           1:11        1:15    1:14.4       1:15      1:20    1:20       1:11       1:20      1:18
Vocational Schools               1:8         1:15    1:14.6      1:8       1:10   1:15        1:11       1:20      1:19
Teaching Institutions                        1:10    1:99         1:6       1:10    1:10       1:60       1:10      1:80
Maintenance Budget Increase
Existing Buildings & Equip.      1.5%        2.250/  2. 5%        1.5%      2.25%  5.0%        1.5%      2.25%      2.7%
New Buildings                    1.5%        3.0%    3.0%         1.5%      3.0%    3.0%       1.5%      3.0%       3.0%/o
New Equipment                    1.5%       10.0%   10.0%         1.5%     10.0%    7.0%       1 .5%     10.0%     10.0%
Decrease: Unqualified Teachers
Primary Schools                 30          10       6.9        30         10       19       30          15        15
Lower Secondary                 30          10       8.'        30         10       10       30         10         10
Teachers Training: Dual            0           2       6           0         10       6         0         10         10
Subes
Health
Policy Reform
Length of Stay
County Hospital                 12.7       -20%      11.5        14.7     -20%      11.3      _
District Hospital               20.7       -20%      16.6       12.2      -20%      10.5                            _
Enterprise Hospital             41.7       -20%     31.1         19.7     -20%      14.5      11.1     -25%         9.6
City Hospital                   18.4       -30%      15.0       18.2      -30%      11.3      17.6     -30%        12.8
Occupancy Rate
County Hospital                 98.9        98.9    93          79.1      +20%      93.7      --         --         --
District Hospital               82.9       +10%     87          70.2      +20%      90.5      --         --         --
Enterprise Hospital             77.7       +20%     85          67.7      +40%      92.7      41.1     +40%        57.1
City Hospital                   95.6        -5%     91          102.2     -10%      95.2      92.2      +5%        90.3
Determinants & Measure of
Health
Childhood Immunization Rate     97%        100%     99.2        55%       +30%      88.9      --       +30%        98.7
% TB Patients under Rx           --        +25%    100           --       +50%      100%               +50%        89.6
% Children under 4 with
anemia treatment                           +30%     97.8                  +60%      80        _        +60%        96.9
% pregnant women receiving
care before 16 weeks             --        +20%     68 7                  +40%      85                 +40%        50.1
Health Outcome
Infant Mortality Rate           18.1       -20%      14,2       30.3      -20%      20.0      16.3     -20%        12.0
Matemal Mortality Rate           3.2       -20%                  10.6     -20%      7.3        4.7     -20%         0
Changzhou                            Luoyang                        Shashi
Base Year  Appraisal                Base    Appraisal            Base    Appraisal
WATER SUPPLY                     1991      Estimate   Actual  Year 1991  Estimate  Actual Year 1991  Estimate   Actual
Financial Indicators (FenIm3)
Ave. Tariff-Industrial          30          50         50         27         32       38        15          26         36
Ave. Tariff-Commercial           --         --         --         24         29       30        12          15         36
Ave. Tariff-Residential         12          15         15          9         12       38        10          15         36
Ave. Tariff-Institutional        -           -          --        20         24       30        --           -          --
Physical Indicators
Volume Water Sold            6,846       9,047      8,436                                    8,300       11,300    10,400
(10,000 tons)



18
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose as defined at Appraisal          Impact
Urban Planning &   strengthen Planning Commission & Planning    high in Changzhou,
Management TA      Bureau                                   low in others
GIS training       develop necessary expertise in GIS        high
Education TA       develop capacity to design and improve    high
educational programs
Health TA          develop skills and support reforms        high
Transport TA       introduce and apply modem transport planning  high for roads, low
techniques                               for public transit
Land Use-Transport  project demand using transport models    medium
Study                                                     __
Water TA           upgrading of skills                       high
Project            assist PMOs and operating agencies with   high
Implementation TA    implementation management



19
Table 8A. Project Cost
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)           Actuals
Item                        Local      Foreign  Total          Local       Foreign  Total
Planning and Management       1.0        2.0      3.0            0.3        2.4      2.7
Education and                26.0        3.0     29.0           17.7        11.6    29.3
Health                       11.5        5.1     16.6           14.2        13.0    27.2
Transportation               21.5        3.6     25.1           10.9        13.4    24.3
Housing                      40.1        0.5     40.6           50.4        5.1    55.5
Water/Sewerage               21.5        8.7     30.2           22.5       14.2    36.7
Pollution Control                        8.4      8.4            8.2        --       7.2
Industries                              66.0     66.0           21.0       45.3    66.3
Total               121.6      97.3    218.9           145.2      105.0   250.2
Physical Contingencies       10.4       16.1     26.5
Price Contingencies          10.6       21.2     31.8
Total Costs         142.6      134.6    277.2
- SAR estimates Annex 9 a,b,c
** Included approx. US$ 1.4 million for construction supervision in Luoyang.
Table 8B. Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate
Source                              Local    Foreign        Total      Local    Foreign       Total
Bank Group                                   _          ._.
Changzhou                              68.3       68.3                    67.3      67.3
Luoyang                                52.6       52.6                    52.0      52.0
Shashi                                 47.5       47.5                    42.8      42.8
Domestic Contribution
Changzhou                    48.8        _                      34.5                34.5
Luoyang                      32.9                              22.2                 22.2
Shashi                       27.0   _                          23.5    ___     23.5



20
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits
Costs     Benefits  NPV         ERR (%)
Not applied for ICR due to lack of data



21
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
*Only covenants not or partially met are mentioned in this draft.
Loan                     Present    Original       Revised
Agreement  Covenant    Status    Fulfillment Fulfillment
Agreement    Section          Type                      Date          Date             Description of Covenant                    Comm ents
Credit       3.01(b)            03           C                                   Borrower to make proceeds of credit
and loan available to project cities and
cause project cities to comply with the
provisions in the project agreement
Credit       4.01(b)            1            C         6/30/94                   Borrower to submit audit reports to      3 cities submitted FY95
Bank not later than 6 months after end   audit reports on time
of each year
Project       Sched. 1          05          CP                                   Project cities to employ consultants    Services of consultants were
Section 11                                                                                                 limited by the cities.
Project      Sch 2 B. 1.        05           C                                   Each city to appoint Leading Group to
oversee project implementation
Project      Sch 2, Bll         05           C                                   Each city to maintain project
management office with competent staff
Project      Sch 2 B III        05           C                                   Each to cany out training program
Project       Sch 2 B IV        09           C         9/1/1991                  Each city to report to the Bank on project
progress by March I and Sept I of each
l__________    __________                ___________   ___________   year
Project       Sch 2 B V       04, 05         C        11/30/1991                 Each city to submit action plan for the
=_______                  _________    _________    nextyearby  11/30
Project      Sch. 2             02          CP                                   Financial Covenant for Water and Bus    Financial covenant for water
Section C. I                                                       Companies                                companies were met.
However those fror bus
companies were never
satisfied and were in
hindsight unrealistic in
Chinese context. (See para
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   3 8 )
Project       Sch 2 C II        13           C                                   Each city to undertake land use          All three cities completed
I_________                  _________                 __________   =__l__l__l    transportation   study                   ________________so t in tu
Project       Sch 2 C IV        07           C                                   Each city to carry out resettlement and
rehabilitation plans acceptable to the
Bank
Project       Sch 2 D I         11           C                                   Each city to enter into agreement with
(a)                                                                CIB for appraisal and supervision of
industry loans
Project      Sch 2 D I          11           C                                   Changzhou and Shashi to enter into
(b)                                                                agreement with PCBC for appraisal and
supervision of pollution control subloans
Covenant Class:                                                                       Status:
I= Accounts/audits                          8 = Indigenous people                                                  C - Covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue          9 = Monitoring, review and reporting                                   CD = Complied with after delay
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds   10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9             CP = complied with partially
4  Counterpart funding                       11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resources allocation
5  Management aspects of the project or    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants                  13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



22
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP).
Table 12. Bank Resources-Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle           Weeks               ($'000)
Identification                     6.5                   19.7
Pre-Appraisal                     237.5                 521.9
Appraisal & Negotiations          88.5                  229.2
Supervision                       215.7                 652.4
Completion Report                   10.8                 33.3
Total                      559.0                1,456.5



23
Table 13. Bank Resources-Missions
Performnance rating
Specialized staff  Imple-  Devel-
Month/     No. of     Days in  skills represented mentation opment     Type of
Stage of project cycle      year      persons      field   /a                status   objectives    problem
Identification            Oct. 1987      8         18      EU (2), HU, F,
_____________  _T,C,I,O                       ___
Preparation               Jan. 1988      8         30       EU,C (2), HU,
________ ___ _ _ME, T, H, E,I           _      _
Pre-Appraisal            Aug. 1988       5         27       E (2), T, H, E, I
Appraisal                Nov. 1988       8         22       EU, (1), ME, T,
H, E, G, 1,O0
Post-Appraisal           Aug. 1990       2          7       I, F
Board Approval            Jan. 1991                                    _
thru effectiveness      Apr. 1991                               _                          _            =
Supervision
1                                                          Initial Summary
2                        May 1991        7         12       EU (2), G, T, E,
______                 ME, HU          _
3                        Nov. 1991       5         18       EU, G, H, E, T      I    I          TA&T
4                        May 1992        2         10       EU,O                 1    1         TA&T
5                        Nov. 1992       5         15      EU, 0, ME, H, F      2    2      -TA&T
6                        April 1993      3         14       EU, ME,O            2    3          TA&T
7                        Sept. 1993                         Update          __
8                        Dec. 1993       3                 ME, F,               2    2          TA&T
9 & Mid-terni review     May 1994        7                  EU (2), HU, E,
F (2), H
10                       Sept. 1994                        Update
II                       Apr. 1995      2          10      ME, F,              HS   S           TA&T
12                       April 1996     2           9      ME, F,               S    S          F
13                       April 1997     2           6      C, F,                S    S
/a   EU: Urban Economist
F:  Financial Analyst
ME: Municipal Engineer
T:  Transport Specialist
HU: Housing/Urban Planning
C:  Consultant
H:  Health
E:  Education
0:  Operations
G:  GIS/EIS
1:  Industry



24
Appendice A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
Date:   April 3, 1998
Fax to:  Mr. Dan Hanyun, Project Director, Shashi Project, Jingzhou, Hubei 86-716-844 5054
Mr. Tie Feng, Project Director, Luoyang Project, Henan 86-379-394 1772
Mr. Mo Zhaopeng, Unit Chief, Changzou Project Office, Jiangsu 86-519-660 4038
cc: Ms. Zong Yan, RMC, fax 588-1686
SUBJECT: CHINA: Medium-Sized Cities Project (Cr. 2201/Ln. 3286-CHA)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)-Status
Dear Sir:
This message is to convey my personal thanks for the hospitality extended to myself or for the
meetings you held with me in the past six months in the process of updating the draft reports which you
are submitting at the completion of the project implementation.
Each city project office has agreed to provide a revised version of its earlier write-up, and we did
receive the ones from Changzhou, Shashi and will be pleased to get that of Luoyang shortly. In early
February, we asked each city PMO to include, as part of their ICR, a set of five tables which summarizes
the list of investment characteristics per sector and other specific matters on Technical Assistance,
industry subprojects and industrial pollution control subprojects. We have received the Shashi tables and
would like to reiterate our earlier request to the Luoyang and Changzhou project offices with our
anticipated thanks. We are attaching the Shashi tables for matter of comparison and in an an attempt of
seeking identical information from the two other offices.
For your information, I would like to inform you that on our side we are also putting a last hand
to our own report and will seek your own views on our write-up within three weeks. This is part of the
consultation process the Bank wishes to maintain with the implementing agencies of projects before the
Bank ICR is submitted to our Board of Directors. Attached to our own report will be the last version of
your city's ICR with the annexes you have or will submit(ted). It is important that we present this entire
package by early June 1998.
Sincerely Yours,
Edouard Motte,
Task Manager
N:\emottekmsf\icr2.doc



25
Appendice B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Extn: 34481 EASUR
Subject: China: Medium-Sized Cities Development Project (Credit No. 2201/Loan No. 3286)
Implementation Completion Report-Comments from Cities
Hereafter are comments from the Project Offices received on April 30, 1998.
Recently, representatives of Changzhou, Shashi and Luoyang discussed the
Implementation Completion Report for China Medium-Sized Cities Development Project (draft)
dated April 11, 1998 by Mr. Motte, the World Bank project manager and made the comments as
following:
The Implementation Completion Report (draft) generally reflects the reality of the project:
a. Three PMOs have no objection to presenting it to the executive board of the World Bank.
b. Three PMOs consider that this project generally realized the expected objectives and obtained
better results. It can be a good example to other cities on making use of international finance
organization loan for city comprehensive development project. Therefore, the evaluation for the
project achievement should be generally satisfactory.
c. Three PMOs also think that technical assistance and training are the important aspect of the
project and important assurance to realize the project objectives. Most of the technical assistance
and training were completed well. Chinese consultants can work very well on TA & T for project
implementation. Therefore, it should be important to play a role of Chinese consultants, which
should suit Chinese conditions better to realize the project objectives.
d. Three PMOs have the same ideas that during the project implementation, the work done by two
project managers was effective.
Changzhou, World Bank Financed Project MN4anagement Office
Shashi, World Bank Financed Management Office
Luoyang, World Bank Financed Management Office
P.S. (from EASUR): The three city reports are available in the Project Files.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21361 Rl
io7                    30'                     90>                   10                    I1io                   120                     13i0
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
50,
KAZAKHSTAN                                       r_""-'
,2UZcEKISTAN  /      '1                 M  O  N  G O  LIA                                                          Horbin A
KYIRGYZ, 7  't r                     sUrumqi                                                                                              @Chorhun         r
REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                      D
-94,'-                                                                                                 Hohhot     w     aEIJNGEI G
LTh,I,Th.&earh                                                                            &Tnclwaun      Shijicohuozn  A0 )                            KOp,   REA.O 
T
anolm= 0.                                                                                                                '   .           r.
45 .. , dXwt                                     ,, S, X
-    -    -------------0
-t                           0.o Ch2nging0X h             ccgzh ou
.30-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?
CHINA                                                       C-                       Chohgohn.
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                K                                                                   '<AN,
*   PROJECT CITIES                                    1-
S   PROVINCE CAPITALS                            ;    r                                    &,t                          *
3  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                       G
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                         1i    '     <'                   OSNOTO,OB       IONGIONG
--- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      Z                 VIETNAM                                                ;-
0    100  200  300  400  500 MILES                             LAO PEOPLE'S j.
*  ,                                                  r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-N,POL'S,
O     200   400   600   800 KILOMETERS                      \'P DEM, REP
THAILAND                                                                        PHIL 
MAY 1998



