Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2201 CHA
(Medium-sized Cities Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 30, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2201 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1991, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to seventy-nine million four hundred thousand 
dollars ($79,400,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan are made;
(D)
the Project will be carried out by Changzhou Municipality, Luoyang 
Municipality and Shashi Municipality (the Project Cities) with the Borrower's 
Page  2
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the 
Project Cities the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and the Project Cities;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, l985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Changzhou Special Account," "Luoyang Special Account" and "Shashi 
Special Account" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b)
"CIB" means China Investment Bank, a state enterprise established and 
operating pursuant to its Charter, approved by the Borrower's State Council on 
December 4, 1981; 
(c)
"foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of the 
Borrower; 
(d)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan which qualifies as a free-limit 
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph D.4(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement;
(e)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a Project City 
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan under Part B.6 or B.7 of the Project; 
(f)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(g)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(h)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Changzhou Municipality, Luoyang Municipality and Shashi Municipality of even date 
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(i)
"Project Cities" means Changzhou Municipality, Luoyang Municipality and 
Shashi Municipality, collectively, and Project City means any of the Project Cities;
(j)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(k)
"Special Accounts" means the Changzhou Special Account, the Luoyang 
Special Account and the Shashi Special Account, collectively, and "Special Account" 
means any one of the Special Accounts; and
(l)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Project City to 
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the 
Page  3
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan made available to the Project City by the 
Borrower, and "Industrial Sub-loan" and "Pollution Control Sub-loan" mean loans made 
or proposed to be made under Parts B.6 and B.7 (a) of the Project, respectively.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-two million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 62,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Project 
Cities on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to 
meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4 
and B.5 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars three separate special accounts in banks and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, to be known as the Changzhou Special Account, the 
Luoyang Special Account and the Shashi Special Account, respectively. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2001 and ending December 15, 2025. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2010, shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
Page  4
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause the Project Cities to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the Project Cities therein 
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
the Project Cities to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the following approximate equivalent amounts out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project 
Cities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and the Bank: (i) to 
Changzhou Municipality, $65,000,000; (ii) to Luoyang Municipality, $50,000,000; and 
(iii) to Shashi Municipality, $45,200,000.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the respective 
portions of the Project shall be carried out by the Project Cities pursuant to Section 
2.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  5
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures 
are retained until at least one year after 
the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such 
records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Project Cities shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any of the Project Cities will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Any party to the agreements entered into pursuant to paragraphs C.1 and 
D.1 (a) and (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement shall have failed to perform 
its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to 
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section l2.Ol 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement and the Project Agreement;
Page  6
(b)
consultants for project implementation have been appointed, in accordance 
with Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(c)
the Project Cities have entered into an agreement with CIB in accordance 
with paragraph D.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
(d)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section l2.O2 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Project Cities, and is legally binding upon 
the Project Cities in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.O2 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                      Amount          Amount
                      of the          of the
                      Credit           Loan
                     Allocated       Allocated
                    (Expressed      (Expressed         % of
                      in SDR         in Dollar     Expenditures
     Category       Equivalent)     Equivalent)    to be Financed
Changzhou  Municipality
(1)  Goods:
     (a) for Parts    1,160,000       1,480,000    100% of foreign
         A.2, B.1,                                 expenditures,
         B.2, B.5                                  100% of local
         and B.7 (b)                               expenditures
         of the                                    (ex-factory
         Project                                   cost) and 75%
                                                   of local
     (b) for Parts    4,320,000       5,520,000    expenditures
         B.3 and                                   for other
         B.4 of the                                items procured
         Project                                   locally
(2)  Works:
     (a) for Parts    8,400,000      10,740,000    65%
         A.2, B.1,
         B.2 and
         B.5 of the
         Project
     (b) for Parts    1,710,000       2,180,000    65%
         B.3 and
         B.4 of the
         Project
(3)  Consultants'
     services
Page  8
     and training:
     (a) for Parts      820,000       1,030,000    100%
         A.2, B.1,
         B.2 and
         B.5 of the
         Project
     (b) for Parts      390,000         500,000    100%
         B.3 and
         B.4 of the
         Project
(4)  Industrial       7,270,000       9,280,000    100% of amounts
     Sub-loans                                     disbursed
(5)  Pollution       1,170,000        1,490,000    100% of
     Control                                       amounts
     Sub-loans                                     disbursed
Luoyang Municipality
(6)  Goods:
     (a) for Parts    2,330,000       2,970,000    100% of foreign
         A.2, B.1,                                 expenditures,
         B.2 and B.5                               100% of local
         of the                                    expenditures
         Project                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 75%
     (b) for Parts    1,360,000       1,740,000    of local
         B.3 and                                   expenditures
         B.4 of the                                for other
         Project                                   items procured
                                                   locally
(7)  Works:
     (a) for Parts    6,100,000       7,790,000    70%
         A.2, B.1
         B.2 and
         B.5 of the
         Project
     (b) for Parts    2,820,000       3,600,000    70%
         B.3 and
         B.4 of the
         Project
(8)  Consultants'
     services
     and training:
     (a) for Parts      680,000         880,000    100%
         A.2, B.1
         B.2 and
         B.5 of the
         Project
     (b) for Parts      270,000         340,000    100%
         B.3 and
         B.4 of the
         Project
(9)  Industrial       5,850,000       7,460,000    100% of amounts
     Sub-loans                                     disbursed
Page  9
Shashi Municipality
(10) Goods:
     (a) for Parts    1,480,000       1,880,000    100% of foreign
         A.2, B.1,                                 expenditures,
         B.2, B.5,                                 100% of local
         and B.7 (b)                               expenditures
         of the                                    (ex-factory cost)
         Project                                   and 75% of local
                                                   expenditures
     (b) for Parts    2,160,000       2,760,000    for other items
         B.3 and                                   procured locally
         B.4 of the
         Project
(11) Works:
     (a) for Parts    4,150,000       5,300,000    75%
         A.2, B.1,
         B.2 and
         B.5 of the
         Project
     (b) for Parts    2,560,000       3,280,000    75%
         B.3 and
         B.4 of the
         Project
(12) Consultants'
     services
     and training:
     (a) for Parts      590,000         750,000    100%
         A.2, B.1,
         B.2 and
         B.5 of the
         Project
     (b) for Parts      220,000         280,000    100%
         B.3 and
         B.4 of the
         Project
(13) Industrial       5,220,000       6,660,000    100% of amounts
     Sub-loans                                     disbursed
(14) Pollution        1,170,000       1,490,000    100% of amounts
     Control                                       disbursed
     Sub-loans
                     __________      __________
     TOTAL           62,200,000      79,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
Page  10
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $16,000,000 equivalent 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
May 1, 1989;
(b)
a Sub-loan unless the  Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph D of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement;
(c)
sub-categories 1 (b), 2 (b), 3 (b), 6 (b), 7 (b), 8 (b), 10 (b), 11 (b) 
and 12 (b) unless the respective Project City shall have entered into contracts with 
its respective utility company or companies in accordance with paragraph C.1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
(d)
Categories (5) and (14) unless the respective Project City shall have 
entered into a contract in accordance with paragraph D.1(b) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (1) to assist Project Cities to improve 
overall and sector planning and management; and (2) to assist the Project Cities in 
improving use of existing facilities, designing more appropriate financing mechanisms 
for urban development and promoting better environmental management at the industrial 
enterprise level, through the introduction of planning and management reforms and the 
implementation of specific infrastructural investments consistent with such reforms.
The Project consist of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A:
Urban Planning and Management Reforms
 
1.
Implementing a reform program in each Project City, designed to promote better 
use of existing facilities, better overall planning, better sectoral planning, greater 
resource mobilization and better environmental resource management, in the sectors of 
education, health, urban transport, water and waste treatment, housing, industry and 
environmental protection.
2.
Supporting the implementation of such reform programs through: (a) the 
establishment in each Project City of an urban planning and management information 
center; a geographical information system; and information systems within selected 
municipal agencies; and (b) the provision of related equipment,
consultants' services and training and office rehabilitation. 
Part B:
Sector-Specific Investments
 
Promoting improved living conditions and local economic development in the 
Project Cities, in line with the reform programs under Part A.1 of the Project, 
through investments in:
1.
Education: Expanding access to basic education, strengthening teacher training, 
increasing skilled manpower and improving educational quality, through construction 
and equipping of schools, libraries and other educational facilities and provision of 
specialist services, study tours and overseas and in-country training.
2.
Health: Improving the quality and availability of municipal health services, 
through construction, rehabilitation and equipping of health facilities and health 
training facilities, and provision of consultants' services and training. 
3.
Transport: Construction of two roads in Luoyang and two roads in Shashi and 
widening of one road in Changzhou; expansion of the trolley bus system in Luoyang; 
provision of buses and construction of bus facilities in both Luoyang and Shashi; 
construction and provision of equipment to strengthen traffic management in all three 
Project Cities; undertaking a land use-transport study in each Project City and 
provision of consultants' services and training.
Page  11
4.
Water Supply and Sewerage Treatment: Construction and equipping of facilities 
designed to: increase water supply capacity and dispose of sewerage in Shashi; 
complete water supply improvements in Luoyang; and expand water supply capacity in 
Changzhou; and provision of consultants' services and training.
5.
Housing: Construction and equipping of about 6,900 apartment units and related 
facilities in the three Project Cities, and selling such units to individuals. 
6.
Industry: Financing of specific technological restructuring projects of 
municipal industrial enterprises.
7.
Environmental Protection: (a) Financing of pollution control projects of 
municipal industrial enterprises in Changzhou and Shashi; and (b) provision of 
pollution control equipment for municipal environmental agencies.
** *
 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996. 
SCHEDULE 3
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) for the Changzhou Special 
Account, Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5); (ii) for the Luoyang Special Account, 
Categories (6), (7), (8) and (9); and (iii) for the Shashi Special Account, Categories 
(10), (11), (12), (13) and (14), all set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement;
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to: (i) for 
the Changzhou Special Account, $3,600,000; (ii) for the Luoyang Special Account, 
$2,700,000; and (iii) for the Shashi Special Account, $2,500,000, all to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and
(d)
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph D.4(b) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of a Special Account before the Association or 
the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures 
only if the Association or the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Loan Account and deposit
into such Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of such Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into such 
Page  12
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into 
such Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been made out of such 
Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions applicable thereto; or 
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
such Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into such Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into such Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association 
or the Bank, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in such Special 
Account.
Page  13
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement, including the respective General Conditions.
