CREDIT NUMBER 2201 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3286 CHA
Project Agreement
(Medium-Sized Cities Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CHANGZHOU MUNICIPALITY
LUOYANG MUNICIPALITY
and
SHASHI MUNICIPALITY
Dated    .9~    a   #    ~    ~    ,1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2201 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3286 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 9e -&, 1991, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank),
and CHANGZHOU MUNICIPALITY, LUOYANG MUNICIPALITY and SHASHI
MUNICIPALITY (the Project Cities).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between People's Republic of China (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-two million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 62,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Project Cities agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-nine million four hundred thousand dollars ($79,400,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Project Cities undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Project Cities, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and Loan Agreement, respectively)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Cities declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end,
shall carry out its respective portion of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and urban management
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for its respective portion of the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association, the Bank and the
Project Cities shall otherwise agree, each of the Project Cities
shall carry out its respective portion of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Each of the Project Cities undertakes that,
unless the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-
loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph D.6 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) Each of the Project Cities shall exercise its rights in
relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the Association, the Bank and such
Project City; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agree-
ment; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Each of the Project Cities shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the Development
Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and


﻿-3-
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and its
respective portion of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Project Cities shall, at the
request of the Association or the Bank, exchange views with the
Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of its
respective portion of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and other matters relating to the pur-
poses of the Credit and the Loan.
(b) Each of the Project Cities shall promptly inform the
Association and the Bank of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with the progress of its respective portion
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
and the Loan, or the performance by such Project City of its obli-
gations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project Cities shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of its respective portion of the Project of its depart-
ments or agencies responsible for carrying out such portion of the
Project.
(b) Each of the Project Cities shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association and the
Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association and the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and


﻿(iii) furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning said records, accounts and
the audit thereof, as the Association and the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and the Bank and of the Project Cities thereunder
shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement shall have terminated in
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agree-
ment terminate in accordance with their terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
and the Bank shall promptly notify the Project Cities of this
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or


﻿-5-
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                       197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                      197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For Changzhou Municipality:
294 Ju Qien Street
Changzhou
Jiangsu Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
361019 BOOTH CN


﻿-6-
For Luoyang Municipality:
Kai Xuan Road
Luoyang
Henan Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
47023 LCUSD CN
For Shashi Municipality:
77 Beijing Middle Road
Shashi
Hubei Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
40144 SSBOC CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of each of the Project Cities may be taken or
executed by its Mayor or Vice Mayor or such other person or persons
as the Mayor or Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and such
Project City shall furnish to the Association and the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to the Project Cities and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the
Loan Agreement:
(a) the obligations of each of the Project Cities to consult
with, and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records
and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent
performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the
Association;


﻿- 7 -
(b) the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to, each of the Project Cities shall be satis-
fied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Associa-
tion; and
(c) all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name
and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8  -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Asia
CHANGZHOU MUNICIPALITY
By
Authorized Representative
LU0YANG MUNICIPALITY
By
Authorized Representative
SHASHI MUNICIPALITY
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Procurement for Parts A and B (except for Parts B.6 and B.7) of
the Project shall be as follows:
(a) Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract and the equivalent of $50,000 or
more per contract, up to an aggregate equivalent of $18,500,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association and the Bank.
(b) Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $50,000
per contract may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures accept-
able to the Association and the Bank.
(c) Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, except that
civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate equivalent of $2,900,000, may be
procured through force account.


﻿- 10 -
2.   Items or groups of items for Parts B.6 and B.7 of the Project
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000 per con-
tract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of com-
parison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Association and the Bank of Procurement
Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply with respect to all con-
tracts for goods under Parts B.6 and B.7 of the Project estimated
to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more and all other con-
tracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association and the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association and the Bank prior to the making of
the first payment out of such Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association and the Bank pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association and the Bank as part
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion and the Bank have authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account and Loan Account on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 11 -
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Project Cities in carrying out the
Project, the Project Cities shall employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association and the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.   Reform Programs
1.   Each Project City shall carry out a reform program under Part
A.1 of the Project, which shall have been agreed with the Associa-
tion and the Bank.
B.   Project Implementation Arrangements
1.   Each of the Project Cities shall maintain its Leading Group
to oversee Project implementation and to coordinate the work of
its departments and agencies responsible for carrying out various
Parts of the Project, with composition and responsibilities
acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
2.   Each of the Project Cities shall maintain its project manage-
ment office to assist in day-to-day coordination and administra-
tion of the Project, with competent staff in adequate numbers, and
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association
and the Bank.
3.   Each of the Project Cities shall carry out the training under
its respective portion of Parts B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the
Project in accordance with a training program agreed with the
Association and the Bank.
4.   Each of the Project Cities shall, by March 1 and September 1
in each year, prepare and furnish to the Association and the Bank
a report monitoring the progress of its respective portion of the
Project during the preceding six months, in accordance with
monitoring indicators agreed with the Association and the Bank.
5.   Each of the Project Cities shall, by November 30 in each
year, prepare and furnish to the Association and the Bank an
action plan for the implementation of its respective portion of
the Project during the next year.
C.   Parts B.3. B.4 and B.5 of the Project
1.   In order to carry out Parts B.3 and B.4 of the Project, each
of the Project Cities shall enter into contracts with its
respective utility company or companies listed in sub-paragraph
(a) below, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank, including those set forth below.


﻿- 13 -
(a) The utility companies are: Changzhou Running Water
Company (CRWC), Luoyang Running Water Company (LRWC), Shashi
Running Water Company (SRWC) (the Water Companies) Luoyang
Municipal Bus Company (LMBC) and Shashi Municipal Bus Company
(SMBC) (the Bus Companies).
(b) Each utility company shall carry out the respective
portion of the Project.
(c) The proceeds of the Credit and the Loan for the
respective portion of the Project shall be on-lent to the company
in Renminbi for 15 years, including five years of grace with
interest payable at a rate equal to the People's Construction Bank
of China rate for similar fixed-asset loans.
(d) The Water Companies shall achieve and thereafter main-
tain a level of income sufficient to cover: (i) all operating
costs, depreciation, bonus and welfare funds, and taxes and
charges on operations; and (ii) beginning January 1, 1995, debt
servicing (interest payments).
(e) The Bus Companies shall achieve and thereafter maintain
a level of income sufficient to cover: (i) all current operating
costs (excluding depreciation, bonus and welfare funds, and
taxes); and (ii) beginning January 1, 1995, taxes and debt
servicing (interest payments).
2.   Each of the Project Cities shall undertake a land use trans-
portation study under Part B.3 of the Project in accordance with
terms of reference and timing agreed with the Association and the
Bank.
3.   Each of the Project Cities shall establish maintain its
traffic planning and management unit, with competent staff in
adequate numbers and with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
4.   Each of the Project Cities shall carry out the resettlement
and rehabilitation under Part B.3 of the Project in accordance
with a plan acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
5.   Each of the Project Cities shall ensure: (a) that the apart-
ment units constructed under its respective portion of Part B.5 of
the Project shall be sold to households at prices to cover full
investment costs, including adequate profit margins for the
housing developers and interest during construction; (b) that


﻿-14-
buyers of such units shall have the right to resell them and
retain the resulting capital gains, subject only to applicable
taxes: and (c) that mortgages will be provided to purchasing
households on terms acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
D.   Parts B.6 and B.7 of the Project
1.   (a) In order to carry out Part B.6 of the Project, the
Project Cities shall enter into an agreement with CIB, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, for
the appraisal and supervision of Industrial Sub-loans.
(b) In order to carry out Part B.7 of the Project, Changzhou
Municipality and Shashi Municipality shall each enter into an
agreement with the People's Construction Bank of China, satisfac-
tory to the Association and the Bank, for the appraisal and super-
vision of Pollution Control Sub-loans.
(c) Each of the Project Cities shall ensure that Industrial
Sub-loans and, for Changzhou Municipality and Shashi Municipality,
Pollution Control Sub-loans are made on the following terms and
conditions, and approved in accordance with the procedures set
forth below.
2.   (a) Sub-loans in foreign currency shall be made in dollars
with interest payable at a rate equal to the rate under Sec-
tion 2.05 of the Loan Agreement, plus a spread of 2%.
(b) Sub-loans shall be made for Renminbi funds with interest
payable at a rate equal to the People's Construction Bank of China
rate for similar fixed-assets loans and repayment over 15 years,
including up to five years of grace.
(c) Repayment periods for Industrial Sub-loans shall
normally not exceed seven years and not exceed 12 years, including
three years of grace.   Pollution Control Sub-loans shall be made
with maturities of five to ten years, including one to two years
of grace.
3.   (a) Investment Projects for Industrial Sub-loans shall meet
minimum financial and economic rates of return of 12%, and all
Investment Enterprises shall have a satisfactory projected finan-
cial position as determined by generally accepted financial
standards.


﻿- 15 -
(b) The aggregate amount of all Sub-loans for an Investment
Project shall not exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000.
(c) Investment Projects shall be consistent with environ-
mental standards satisfactory to the Bank and, for Pollution
Control Sub-loans, shall be in accord with the Project City's
water pollution abatement strategy.
4.   No expenditures for goods or services required for an Invest-
ment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Loan unless:
(a) the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Association or the Bank and such expenditures
shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the
date on which the Association or the Bank shall have received the
application and information required under paragraph D.5(a) of
this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b) the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association or the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Loan Account
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Association or the Bank shall
have received the request and information required under paragraph
D.5(b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.
(i) For the purposes of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a
free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan which
shall not exceed the sum of $1,000,000 equivalent
for Industrial Sub-loans or $500,000 equivalent for
Pollution Control Sub-loans, when added to any
other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to
be financtd out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Loan, the proceeds of which have been or are
being used for financing goods and services
directly and materially related to such Investment
Project, the foregoing amounts being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Asso-
ciation and the Bank.
5.   (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Association or the Bank for approval, each of the
Project Cities shall furnish to the Association and the Bank an


﻿- 16 -
application, in form satisfactory to the Association and the Bank,
together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and
an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit or the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-
loan; and (iii) such other information as the Association and the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by each of the Project Cities for authori-
zation to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a
summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the Invest-
ment Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan; and
(ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
6.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby each of the Project
Cities shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Association, the Bank and such
Project City, including the right to:
(a) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b) require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association or the Bank if the Association or the Bank shall
so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(d) require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound


﻿- 17 -
business practice; and (ii) uithout any limitation upon the fore-
going, snch insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan to the place of use or instal-
lation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency
freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair
such goods;
(e) obtain all such information as the Association, the Bank
or such Project City shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be
derived from the Investment Project; and
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obliga-
tions under its contract with such Project City.
7.   Changzhou Municipality and Shashi Municipality shall each
ensure that the respective Municipal Pollution Control Fund out of
which Pollution Control Sub-loans shall be made shall be operated
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank.


﻿INIf RNAlJONAI. BANK
I OR RI ( ONSIRI ("I 1ON A.ND DEVLlOPMENT
IN IL RN Al ONAl. DEVI-I OPMI NT ASSOCIATION
(I R'Il1 I(AT f
I hcteh\ cer if \ tihalt t rgor ng is a true cop of'
the or-indl in the archines ol the International
Bink fir Re imostruL ieen ind De\elopment and the
Internationil 1)ex elt)pmeint A ociauon
I-OR SECRETARY


