Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19524
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2200-MOZ)
June 28, 1999
Africa Human Development I
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit  =  Metrical (X); pI. Meticais
US$1           = MT 890 (At Appraisal, February 1990)
MT 1           =  US$ 0.00112
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR OF BORROWER
February - December
UNIVERSfTY YEAR OF BORROWER
August - June
MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        African Development Bank
AMME       Association for Mozamnbican Women and Education
CFPP       Centro de Formacao Profissional de Professores (Teacher Training
Center for EP1 Level)
DAF        Directorate for Administration and Finance (in MINED)
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
EDP        Education Development Plan
EP1        Grades 1 through 5 (Primary education, level 1)
EP2        Grades 6 and 7 (Primary education, level 2)
ESG        Grades 8 through 10 (Secondary education)
ESSP       Education Sector Strategic Program
GATECE   School Construction Maintenance Units
GEPE       Gabinete de Gestao de Projetos Educacionais (Education Projects
Implementation Unit)
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IAP        Instituto de Aperfeicoamento do Professores (Teacher In-Service Training
Institute)
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
INDE       Institute for the Development of Education
MINED      Ministry of Education
MPF        Ministry of Planning and Finance
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
UEM        Universidade Eduardo Mondlane
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
WFP        World Food Program
ZIP        Zona de Influencia Pedagogica (Pedagogical Influence Zone)
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice President:        Callisto Madavo (AFRVP)
Country Director:      Phyllis Pomerantz (AFC02)
Sector Manager:        Ruth Kagia (AFTHI)
Task Team Leaders:     Donald Hamilton I S0ren Nellemann (AFTH1)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation  Summary------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------i
Part I  Project Implementation Assessment ---------------------------------------------------------------- 1
A.   Project Objectives ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives -----------------------------------------------------------------                                      3
C.  Implementation Experience and Results-----------------------------------------------------------6
D.   Major Factors Affecting Project--------------------------------------------------------------------                                      8
E.   Project Sustainability-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------8
F.   Bank Performance --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9
G.   Borrower Performance ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9
H.   Assessment of Outcomes-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  10
I.    Future Operations------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10
J.    Key Lessons Learned  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------                             -        11
Part II  Statistical Annexes ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- 13
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments--------------------------------------------------------------------------------13
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits----------------------------------------------------------------------------14
Table 3: Project Timetable-                      --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------16
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements, Cumulative Estimated and Actual------------------------------------------16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ---                               ------------------------------------------17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation------------------------------------------------------------------19
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project-----------------------------------------------------------------------------21
Table 8a: Project Costs-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------22
Table 8b: Project Financing---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------23
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits --------------------------------------------------------------------------23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants-------------------------------------------------------------------------------24
Table 1 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements---------------------------------------------------28
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs                          ----------------------------------------------------------28
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions-----------------------------------------------------------------------------29
Part III  Appendixes------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 30
Appendix A Aide Memoire from the Implementation Completion Mission/
Comments from  the Borrower ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 30
Appendix B Implementation Completion Report by the Ministry of Education----------------------------33
Maps
IBRD 22385 - Urban Population Speaking Portuguese
IBRD 22386 - Conditions of Accessibility as of February 1990
IBRD 22466 - Investment in Education Infrastructure
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2200-MOZ)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mozambique Second
Education Project (Education II), for which Credit 2200-MOZ in the amount of SDR 38.7 million
(US$53.7 million equivalent) was approved on December 20, 1990 and made effective on July 26,
1991.
The original closing date for the project was October 31, 1996. The actual closing date
was December 31, 1998, after two extensions of the original closing date. SDR 37.7 million were
disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on June 2, 1999. A balance of SDR 990,000 (US$
1.3 million) will be cancelled. Co-financing in the amount of US$4.8 million was provided by the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
The ICR was prepared by Donald Hamilton (Cluster Team Leader, AFTHl), S0ren
Nellemann (Economist, AFTHI) and Vanessa Saldanha (AFTHI). A number of consultants
contributed to earlier drafts of the report: David N. Plank, Maribel A. Sevilla and Vincent
Fruchard. The ICR was reviewed by Phyllis Pomerantz (Country Director, AFC02) and Ruth
Kagia (Sector Manager, AFTH 1). Ricardo Silveira (LCSHD), Andrew Follner (Operation
Analyst, AFTH1), Jaime Biderman and Charles Magnus (AFTS 1) provided valuable comments, as
did the Borrower and co-financier during the preparation of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR commenced during the Bank's final completion mission, which
took place from March 8 to April 3, 1999. The Borrower assisted the Bank in the preparation of
this ICR by participating and rendering professional assistance to the mission. The ICR is based on
the mission and on documents in the project file. The Borrower's views as reflected in the
mission's Aide-Memoire have been included in the preparation of the ICR, in addition to their own
evaluation of the project (see Appendix B).






EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction. The Second Education Project (Education II Project) was designed and
implemented during a period of tremendous economic, social and political changes in Mozambique.
During this period the country moved from civil war and a one-party rule to being a post-conflict,
democratic society. The project was designed in 1989-1990 during the civil war, to assist the
Government in strengthening its capacity to manage education and to improve the quality and
delivery of education in the areas outside the war zones, mainly the urban areas. The project was
inspired and influenced by the Jomtien Conference on education. UNDP provided co-financing.
2.    Project objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were threefold: (a) to
improve the quality and efficiency ofprimary education by financing pre-service and in-service
training for teachers; providing them with pedagogical support; introducing distance education for
teacher training; rehabilitating and constructing schools in Maputo, Dondo, Beira and Nacala; and
introducing five new initiatives to enhance effective learning - viz: instruction in the local
language, student achievement testing, provision of reading materials, testing extramural programs,
and student health interventions; (b) to improve the quality and efficiency of the University of
Eduardo Mondlane (UEM), especially in enhancing the University's capacity for strategic
management and long-range planning, strengthening the teaching of physical sciences, engineering
and economics, and rehabilitating and furnishing the physical facilities for these faculties; and (c)
to strengthen the management of the education sector, particularly the Ministry's ability to
address financial monitoring and control. During negotiations it was decided that support should
be provided for: (i) the development of a textbook policy and action plan; (ii) the revision of the
primary school curricula; (iii) the development of secondary school curricula; (iv) carrying out
educational research projects, and (v) extension of the school year. The project was amended in
1993 and 1995, the latter to include: (a) girls' education; and (b) technical training. The latter
was aimed at addressing the issue of reintegrating demobilized soldiers.
3.    At the time of appraisal, project objectives were realistic and feasible, based on the needs
of the geographical areas in which the project was going to be implemented. However, the
inclusion of the university component did not take proper account of the lack of coordination
between the Ministry of Education (MINED) and the University. With the Government's decision
to expand the scope and coverage of the project to consolidate peace at the end of the war, new
challenges emerged. In particular, there was inadequate capacity for the implementation of the
quality initiatives and for the construction of rural schools
4.    Achievement of Project Objectives and Outcomes. Overall, despite some delays and
problems, the project outcomes were satisfactory. An important contributing factor was the
restructuring of the project, which helped to accelerate implementation and enabled resources to be
channeled to reconstruction needs. It helped to meet the changes in the demand for education, and
to provide children with increased access to schooling during the post-war period when the
environment was characterized by the return of refugees, displaced families, teacher and
demobilized soldiers. In addition, the project has significantly contributed to an improved donor
collaboration, by helping the Government to launch its ten-year Education Development Plan
(EDP) and the Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP) for 1999-2003.
5.    The most important achievements in the context of the first component are the: (i)
successful launching of the distance education program for teachers; and (ii) complete



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                          ii
rehabilitation and reconstruction of the primary school network to above pre-war levels. Most of
the other quality initiatives were completed, some with delays but within their original scope. This
included the distribution of 4.35 million textbooks. Also, a pilot on school health and nutrition was
successfully implemented through a national NGO, Association for Mozambican Women and
Education (AMME). With regard to the second component, the major achievement was the
rehabilitation of basic science, engineering and the faculty of economics. Manpower development
initiatives were limited to what was done prior to 1992, when these activities were included in the
new higher education project. Finally, on the third component the most significant impact was the
establishment of an education statistical system to record student and school data as a means of
enhancing the Ministry's capacity to budget and record expenditures. Otherwise, little was
achieved with regard to strengthening MINED's financial management and control system.
6.    Measured against the revised project description, the objectives were substantially
achieved. Beyond the achievement of specific project objectives, the project provided an
opportunity for the reconstruction program to start as soon as peace returned. This established a
foundation for the post-conflict restructuring of the education system and aided the transition from
war to peace and democracy.
7.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project. The project
experienced serious delays. Project implementation was delayed due to personnel problems at
Education Projects Implementation Unit (GEPE), political impediments, and a lack of ownership
and knowledge about the project within a wider audience in the Ministry. Some of the
implementation delays were exacerbated by significant delays in construction activities which were
conditioned on compliance with two covenants. These required the Government to prepare a
textbook policy and set up maintenance units at provincial level before disbursements for school
construction could be made. This in turn influenced the extension of the project closing date twice.
Some of the construction delays were a result of weather conditions (flooding, seasonal rains)
delaying the rural school construction program with World Food Program (WFP). Others were a
result of problems with contractual arrangements, particularly in relation to sub-contracting
arrangements and poor performance of some contractors. This often resulted in extra overhead
costs to the project and created administrative complications in moving construction activities
forward within set time schedules. The procurement of 4.3 million textbooks for grades 3 to 7 was
delayed, partly as result of an as yet unresolved dispute between the Borrower and the supplier on
the quality of books supplied compared to tender specifications.
8.    Project Sustainability. The accomplishments achieved under the Education II Project are
mixed, but overall are likely to remain sustainable. The lion's share of project activities, such as
the large number of new schools and rehabilitated classrooms, the launching of the distance
education program, the educational statistical system and the construction and refurbishing of the
university faculties will be sustained and supported in both the short to medium term by the joint
donor-Government ESSP program or through the on-going Capacity Building Project.
Government funding has been increased under ESSP and is consistent with the rolling Medium-
Term Expenditure Framework.
9.    Bank Performance. Bank performance was satisfactory during project identification and
marginally satisfactory during preparation and appraisal, as the project was a bit ambitious for a
fast changing context. However, achievement of the project objectives and the size of the project
would have significantly inproved the quality of education in the targeted areas and laid the
foundation for further development of the system when peace returned. Furthermore, line
directorates of MINED were inadequately involved in preparation. This may have resulted in a
lack of broader political commitment and ownership of the project.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                          iii
10.   Bank performance during project supervision (rated satisfactory) improved over the life of
the project and assisted with project implementation. In some instances the Bank could have
provided better and more timely advice on procurement and disbursement. Over the life of the
project, the level of resources committed to project supervision was satisfactory. On average,
22.5 weeks of staff time per year were earmarked for project supervision. There was been a good
deal of continuity in personnel who participated in project supervision. Various teams provided a
good skills mix. This helped to establish good relationships with counterparts.
11.   Borrower Performance. Borrower performance improved gradually over the life of the
project. The preparation and implementation of the project was satisfactory. Compliance with
Covenants was satisfactory with the exception of delays in compliance with the textbook policy,
decentralization and submission of the 1997 annual audit report. The lack of implementation in its
earlier years was exacerbated by the lack of experience and detailed procedures in executing a
Bank project within MINED. As a result the burden was shifted on to GEPE for the execution of
sub-components, which led to further dependency on GEPE for nearly every action. At the same
time GEPE was inadequately staffed to provide support on issues of educational substance. This
resulted in a stalemate of the "soft" components until 1995 when implementation accelerated.
12.    Future Operation. The Education II Project contributed to establishing a basis for broad
sector dialogue and refining donor collaboration. In May 1998 the Govermnent and donors jointly
assessed the new Education Sector Strategic Program for 1999-2003. The program is being
developed as a sector wide program (SWAP) to provide a joint framework for all donors and to
consolidate past gains also supported by the Education II Project, and to further improve quality,
access and institutional capacity.
13.   Key Lessons Learned. Some key lessons have emerged from the experience associated
with this credit:
* Implementation through external PIU. To ensure impact on learning outcomes, project
activities should be implemented through the line directorates, which are responsible for
managing the recurrent budget and which have a better sense of appropriate programs.
Furthermore, closer collaboration with end-users in the procurement decision making
process must be established to ensure the delivery of desired goods and services. In this
context it is important to identify clearly the authority and reporting level of the PIU. Lack
of clearly defined authority can result in severe tensions between ministerial staff and the
PIU. This impairs project implementation.
*  Bank's responsiveness to change/flexibility in design and allocation offunds are
extremely important for implementing projects in highly uncertain environments such as
changing political and economic circumstances like rapid economic growth or war. Such
environments can bring about large shifts in the nature and scale of the objectives. The
Bank's administrative and procedural requirements must be made easier in order to assist
task teams to better respond to such country-related changes. Bank loan/credits should be
flexible to ensure appropriate modifications of both objectives and financial allocations to
a country's changing circumstances.
¢ Complexity in project design. Care should be taken in the design and complexity of a
project or program where institutional capacity is weak or factors outside the control of the
Borrower have significant impact, such as civil war.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                            iv
¢ Cross conditionality and partnerships. Cross conditionalities used in projects are difficult
to manage if the Bank is not a party to the agreement or in the absence of a sector wide
approach where partnerships are formed and project activities are joined together.



PART I PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
1.    Background and Introduction. The Education II Project was designed in 1989-90,
during a period of acute crisis in the Mozambican education system. Large numbers of schools --
about 3,400 - had been destroyed or closed during the civil war, and gross enrollment rates
continued to decline -- as they had done since 1981 -- reaching 65 percent in the early 1990s.
Drought compounded the econonic damage done by the war, leaving the Government without the
resources necessary to address the crisis in education or in the areas they prioritized. In response,
the Government initiated an Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program with World Bank
support, one element of which was a renewed commitment to supporting the social sectors. The
Education II Project was designed to support the Government's effort to reverse the deterioration in
the education system. It was inspired and influenced by the Jomtien Conference on reaching
universal basic education. UNDP provided co-financing. SIDA and other donors provided parallel
financing.
2.    Project Objectives. The project objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), were to: (a) improve the quality and efficiency of primary education; (b) improve the
quality and efficiency of the University of Eduardo Mondlane (UEM); and (c) strengthen the
management of the education sector. Specifically, the project aimed to:
(a) Improve the quality and efficiency ofprimary education by:
* linproving in-service and pre-service training of teachers through: (i) the
establishment of a one-month training program in math and Portuguese for 80
instructors, upgrading courses in various subjects for 160 instructors; short-term
training programs through auto-instructional materials for 600 untrained primary
school teachers; and a three month training course for 45 teacher trainers; (ii)
shortening the pre-service teacher training program from three to two years; and (iii)
providing national directorates with vehicles and equipment.
*  Providing teachers with pedagogical support through: (i) training 12 central level, 44
provincial level and 102 district level staff in pedagogical methods, and supporting
them with textbooks and learning materials; and (ii) revitalizing ZIPs (Pedagogical
Support Zones) for continual in-service teacher training and materials development.
* Introducing distance education for upgrading untrained and unqualified teachers,
including training of 15 monitors; study tours; and provision of vehicles, equipment,
and learning materials.
*  Focusing on special initiatives such as: (i) pilot testing local language instruction
through provision of in-service training to 20 teachers in 1992 and 40 teachers in
1994; provision of teaching and learning materials; and study tours; (ii) supporting
participation in a two-year international student achievement testing program to
improve the examination system, including provision of materials for testing, and
study tours. (iii) stocking classrooms in each of the three cities and 34 priority
districts with 250 reading books in Portuguese in each school; (iv) testing extramural
programs, particularly in reading and art; (v) providing de-wormning tablets and micro-



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                             2
nutrients to students in all schools in urban areas and in the participating districts,
based on studies on student health and nutritional status; and
Rehabilitation of 743 classrooms and construction of 97 new classrooms in Maputo,
Dondo, Beira and Nacala, and provision of school furniture and equipment for these
classrooms, as well as for lower secondary schools to enhance the learning
environment in the "war-free zones".
(b) Improve the quality and efficiency of the University of Eduardo Mondlane to address
critical areas of manpower shortage in Mozambique by:
*  Enhancing the University's capacity to develop strategic management and long-range
planning capacity through training courses, study tours, fellowships and providing
office equipment;
*  Starting a process of integration and strengthening of the physical sciences by
constructing and rehabilitating existing infrastructure and providing laboratory
equipment, library materials in math, science and biology, and vehicles; and
* Continuing activities in the fields of engineering and economics through providing
training and fellowships, re-equipping the electronic laboratories and providing
software and books for libraries, learning materials and furniture for their students;
(c) Improve the management of the education system, particularly of the sub-systems
managed by the Ministry of Education (MINED), by:
*  Strengthening MINED's ability to address educational planning and financial
management and control through training, study tours, international technical
assistance for building up a new financial system, and by printing the annual statistical
yearbook;
*  Providing technical assistance to support studies in important areas such as unit costs
and boarding costs;
* Strengthening school construction capacity at the national and provincial levels to deal
with, inter alia, the needs of supporting the rural school construction program in
priority districts, by providing personnel, technical assistance, vehicles, building
materials and operating costs;
* Strengthening provincial and municipal school maintenance capacity through these
units; and financing one percent of the maintenance costs of the new capital stock;
*  Supporting efficient project management and implementation by strengthening GEPE
(Education Projects Implementation Unit) by providing material and training support.
3.    In addition to the above, the following components were added during negotiations as
reflected in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA): (i) development of a textbook policy and
an aetion plan; (ii) revision of the primary school curricula and the development of secondary
school curricula; (iii) educational research projects; and (iv) extension of the school year to
increase the number of hours of instruction. The project components were further revised during
the 1995 project restrueturing to include: (i) promotion of girl's education through development of
sector policy and action program for this area; (ii) provision of 4.3 million free textbooks for
grades 3 to 7; and (iii) technical training for pre-employment and skills upgrading. The first
component focused on seminars and studies, and funds to cover the financing gap for textbooks.
The training component was aimed at reintegrating demobilized soldiers.



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                           3
4.    UNDP provided funding for local and international technical assistance in support of
project activities. They also supported the pilot project in local languages, the costs of starting up
the distance education program, pre-service training, student evaluation and finally the cost of
supervision personnel for school construction (e.g. engineers).
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project immediately followed the Education and
Manpower Development Project (Education I). Its objectives reinforced and expanded those of the
earlier project. The value of resources pledged under the project was more than three times that for
Education I. Project goals were correspondingly more arnbitious and complex. Choice of
geographical area, and project scope were based on the objective of providing complementary
social infrastructure to on-going investments. The project was planned in three cities that served as
ports of three important transport corridors. Since the cities were areas under Government control,
they were expected to attract skilled staff if the social infrastructure was provided.
6.    The Bank's analysis of the priorities that needed to be addressed in the Mozambican
education system, as reflected in the project, was consistent with the objectives of the
Government's Educational Development Plan (EDP), including the support to the UEM. In 1992,
a new IDA credit, the Capacity Building Project, absorbed the component on strengthening the
planning and financial management capacity of the University. The Education II Project also took
into consideration the findings of a public expenditure review (1988).
7.    At the time of appraisal, project objectives were realistic and feasible, based on the needs
of the geographical areas in which the project was to be implemented. However, the inclusion of
the university component did not take proper account of the lack of coordination between MINED
and the University. With the Government's decision to expand the scope and coverage of the
project to consolidate peace at the end of the war, new challenges emerged. In particular, there
was inadequate capacity for the implementation of the quality initiatives and for the construction of
rural schools.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    Measured against the revised project description, the objectives were substantially
achieved. Beyond the achievement of specific project objectives, the project provided an
opportunity for the reconstruction program to start as soon as peace returned. This established a
foundation for the post-conflict restructuring of the education system and aided the transition from
war to peace and democracy. In this respect, the project helped: (i) the Government to launch its
ten-year Education Development Plan; and (ii) the development of appropriate education strategies,
notably the National Education Policy and Strategy (1995) and the Education Sector Strategic Plan
(ESSP, 1997), both of which have had a substantial impact on sector policies. The project had
substantial impact on the social objectives and partial impact on the financial, gender, institutional
development and public sector management objectives (see Table 1).
9.    Specific Project Achievements. The accomplishments under the first objective of the
project - to improve the quality and efficiency of primary education - have been substantial. The
first sub-component concerned the development of teacher training. The Directorate of Primary
Education successfully carried out in-service teacher training through courses for nearly 200 CFPP
instructors at the training institute in Matola. The second sub-component was aimed at providing
pedagogical teacher support through revitalizing the pedagogical zones, to design and implement
training programs for teachers. This was irnportant for the future development of the education



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                           4
system, and schools and ZIPs received learning and pedagogical materials through the book supply
program. However, the pace of revitalizing the ZIPs was slower than planned.
10.   The third sub-component aimed at creating a distance education program for the in-service
training of teachers [through IAP (Teacher In-service Training Institute)]. This program is
perceived as being highly successful with approximately 3000 "Level E" teachers enrolling every
year; the first 2,500 graduated in 1998. One important contributing factor to the success of the
program is the removal of delays in the salary upgrade for teachers who successfully complete the
course by the introduction of an automatic approval system. The program is now the backbone in
the Government's effort to upgrade teachers' skills and to improve the quality of teachers.
11.   The fourth sub-component was aimed at financing new initiatives to enhance effective
learning. Through the textbooks initiative 4.3 million textbooks for grades 3 to 7 were distributed
to the schools in spite of significant delays (see Section C: Implementation Record and Major
Factors Affecting Project). The program to supply reading materials for the children was also
completed with the distribution of 50,000 books, although GEPE rejected some of the proposed
titles as being too costly.
12.   The bilingual education pilot project introduced local languages (Nyanja and Tsonga) in
two schools in the 1st and 5th grades in each of the provinces of Gaza and Tete over a five-year
period. It also included teacher training in local languages, and development and testing of
textbooks for mathematics, sciences and reading, as well as 12 booklets of children's' stories.
About 357 students participated in the pilot. The results suggest that children in bilingual
classrooms at best perform no better than children in traditional classrooms (on tests in Portuguese
and mathematics). This finding contradicts the results of most research on bilingual education.
These unexpected results are attributable to a design flaw, and the outcome of the pilot has
therefore been considered inconclusive.
13.   The student achievement evaluation initiative was completed in 1994 with math and
science testing for eight and thirteen year-old students. Curricula for both primary and secondary
education were revised to reflect the post-war context and an extended school year. The new
curriculum has been introduced into the primary school system. A textbook policy study was
prepared with support from SIDA in 1994 as a basis for the recently developed textbooks policy
included in the ESSP. Finally, the nutrition and student health program was satisfactorily
implemented through the Women's NGO AMME (Association for Mozambican Women and
Education). The program provided 1,614 pupils in three provinces with iron and other micro-
nutrients and food. School sanitary facilities were also rehabilitated. A report was produced in
June, 1998.
14.   The fifth sub-component: School rehabilitation and construction, was expanded under the
project restructuring in 1995. The amount for construction and rehabilitation was increased by
$4.0 million during the restructuring to increase the number of classrooms to 1,550, involving 410
schools. This has contributed toward improving the learning environment for more than 200,000
students. The identification of alternative sites for school construction (Liberdade, Sao Damaso
and Zonas Verdes) obviated the need for relocation of families and the planned payment of re-
location allowances. The pilot rural construction program with World Food Program (WFP), was
seriously delayed, and only 17 out of 55 schools were completed at the close of the project.
15.   Achievement of the objective -- to improve the quality and efficiency of the University of
Eduardo Mondlane, to address the critical area of manpower shortage in Mozambique -- was
partial. The quality of the learning environment was improved through the rehabilitation and



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                         5
refurbishing of the basic science, engineering and economics faculties. The largest share of the
resources helped to construct, furnish, and equip a building for the natural science faculty. This
activity was completed by the project closing date. Manpower development initiatives were limited
to what was done before 1992, mainly because the new higher education project launched in 1992
covered these activities. Therefore, the strategic management development sub-component was not
implemented and funds were re-allocated.
16.   The achievements under the component to improve the management of the education
sector, were partial. Under the first sub-component -- strengthening MINED's planning and
financial management capabilities -- one of the significant achievements was the establishment of
an education statistical information system. Twice per year student and school data are collected
and processed at central level for the annual statistical publication. This data currently provides
the Government with core information for the budgeting process, particularly since the budgeting
principle involves allocation by expected enrollment numbers. A new budgeting procedure was
introduced in the central ministry. However, despite these measures little has been achieved on the
expenditure side or at provincial and district levels. Measures to strengthen the capacity for
financial management and control were modest. In late 1992 a study on unit costs of education,
including boarding, and a Financing and Expenditure Review were prepared. The findings of the
former study are yet to be fully exploited.
17.   A network of GEPE architects and engineers at the provincial level with UNDP financing,
assisted with the implementation of the third and fourth sub-components -- strengthening school
construction capacity at national and provincial level, including building school maintenance
capacity and supervision. The GEPE technicians were supposed to work with and strengthen
school maintenance units which were established in the provinces of Maputo, Gaza, Inhambane,
Tete, Niassa, Cabo Delgado and Sofala, in accordance with the covenant on decentralization. In
practice, however, GEPE supervised construction almost independently. The central school
construction unit within the Planning Directorate did not participate in the execution of this
activity. The Directorate of Administration and Finance (DAF) did not control investments
managed by GEPE.
18.   Under the fifth sub-component -- strengthening project management capabilities -- the
project provided technical and material support to GEPE, including the purchase of vehicles and
the payment of international and local consultants, but little was achieved to strengthen the
Ministry with the exception of some short-term training and study tours for officials.
19.   The fourth objective, to develop a policy for girls' education and to reintegrate demobilized
soldiers was substantially achieved. The project funded a seminar on girls' education, and the
preparation of a study on promotion of girls' education in 1996. The study has assisted the
Government in elaborating a strategy for girls' education under their new ES SP program. The
employment-based skill development initiative was implemented under a $2 million contract with
the National Institute of Employment and Professional Training (INEFP) for the training of
demobilized soldiers. This program was successful in retraining and reintegration of about 2,130
persons (80% ex-combatants and child soldiers) in the provinces of Maputo, Gaza, Inhambane,
Manica, Sofala and Nampula. The program included a reintegration scheme, an information and
referral service and funds for training and employment. A training needs assessment was
conducted as a part of the program.



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                             6
C. Implementation Experience and Results
20.    Project Restructuring and Extensions. The project was amended twice and extended
two times from the original closing date of October 31, 1996 until December 31, 1998. The first
amendment was approved on April 13, 1993, when the percentage for IDA financing for the civil
works category in Schedule 1 was lowered from 100% to 80%. The second amendment was to
reflect the project restructuring in May, 1995, This amendment reallocated $13.5 million (or 25
percent) from the unallocated and urban civil works categories to: rural reconstruction ($4
million), textbooks ($6.0 million), distance education ($1.5 million), and training of demobilized
soldiers ($2.0 million). Schedule 1 of the DCA was also amended to allow IDA to finance 100% of
foreign and 90% of local expenditures for civil works, and 45% for incremental operating costs.
This helped the Government to fulfill its counterpart funding obligations. The two extensions were
to ensure the completion of the Basic Science Faculty and the Rural School Construction Program
under WFP. In spite of these extensions, further delays prevented the completion of 38 out of the
55 rural schools at project closing.
21.    Disbursement and Actual Costs. Total project cost at the time of appraisal was $67.9
million, with IDA financing of US$53.7 million, UNDP financing up to US$4.8 million and the
Government's contribution of up to US$9.4 million. Disbursements were slow in the beginning.
As of June, 1992, only 5 percent was disbursed compared to the original estimate of 14 percent.
By 1994, only 10 percent of the credit had been disbursed. However, within a year after the
restructuring, disbursements doubled to 22.4 percent and continued to accelerate, reaching 64
percent in January 1997. Disbursement as of June 2, 1999, stood at 98 percent with a balance of
990,000 SDR (US$1.3 million). Part of this amount relates to the unfinished construction of rural
schools and an unexpended balance of funds allocated to "Incremental Operating Costs." Tables
8a and 8b show the estimated and actual project cost for the project.
22.    Procurement and Implementation of Components. Over the life of the project, there
were significant delays in construction. These can be attributed inter alia to: (a) shortage of local
construction materials and skilled labor; (b) problems with roads and weather; (c) delays in the
timely release of funds by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF); (d) poor performance of
some contractors; and (e) difficulties in following Bank procedures.
23.    Given the need for a quick response to the Government's decision to build rural schools for
which no preparation had been made, assistance was sought from the WFP and Mozambican
NGOs. The WFP agreement, signed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1994, called for the
construction of 174 classrooms (55 schools) with the help of NGOs to be supported under the
project and the WFP "Food for Work" program. The objective was to tap into under-utilized
management and technical skills of NGOs. However, a disagreement over disbursement of funds
delayed the start up of construction1. These delays made planning difficult and forced some
Complications arose as the Ministry of Education rejected signing a contract to which it had not been a
party. As a consequence, a separate agreement was signed with GEPE. Furthermore, the Ministry of
Finance and Planning set a budget ceiling for low-cost rural schools at $40,000 per school, which in
retrospective was too low. The Ministry did not anticipate the high costs of management fees which was
to be met by the NGOs. This resulted in under-budgeting for most contracts from the outset, when the
bids were launched as the NGOs could not provide full coverage with the unexpected delays (a recent
GTZ study has established the historical costs at about US$60,000 for rural schools, including
management fees). Also, WFP had to provide cash for work as the food security situation in Mozambique
improved. Furthermore, at the time of WFP signing the agreement with GEPE, WFP expected a lump-
sum payment for the full contract amount. The Bank did not agree to this condition. The issue was
eventually resolved using normal Bank procedures, including direct payments.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                             7
construction during the rainy season when remote sites were difficult to access. Although the
difficulties were eventually overcome, the delays made it difficult to fully disburse the at project
closing. The Govemment intends to cover the remaining expenses under the new ESSP program.
24.    Delays were also caused by some concerns about the use of NGOs and commercial firms
for construction. This was aggravated by the decision to build schools on the assumption that the
communities would complete construction with doors, windows and school furniture to reduce the
costs to Government. This was unrealistic given the limited resources in already over-stretched
communities. The project therefore built complete schools at an estimated cost of US$48,000 for
urban classrooms and US$27,000 for rural primary school classrooms, which is considered high.
25.    On financial management, an international consulting company developed procedures
which included a computerized budgeting form. The contract needed to be extended as the
development of the system had not been completed prior to termination of the original contract.
However, the Government and the company could not agree on the terms of the extension, and their
services were terminated. MINED is unable to use the computer-based system developed because
of unfamiliarity with the program.
26.   An otherwise reasonably successful initiative to provide 4.3 million textbooks and
teachers' guides (outside the Caixa Escolar system which was not fully operational) was delayed
because of a controversy over a claim by the Borrower that the a good proportion of the textbooks
supplied did not meet the tender specifications. This dispute is not yet fully resolved. The
Government expressed regret that the Bank did not provide more support and advice in resolving
this issue. However, the Bank has tried continuously to get the buyer and seller to reach an
amicable agreement.
27.    The Caixa Escolar was continued in 1996 after the Operational Manual for the funding
and distribution mechanisms was updated and the recommendations of the 1994 audit put in place.
The Caixa Escolar has now become a model for funding, delivering and distributing textbooks.
28.    Personnel. During the first six months of project implementation, only the Project
Director and one Project Coordinator had been appointed, but the latter was on study leave abroad.
Differences between the Director of GEPE and the Project Coordinator subsequently seriously
interfered with project execution. This led to the dismissal of the Project Coordinator. Later in the
project's life, in 1996, the Project Director was also dismissed. There was a good degree of staff
continuity on the Bank side.
2In 1994 the Government wished to increase the number of free textbooks in grades 3 to 7 and requested
Bank financing. The Government also proposed that the distribution should go through the Caixa Escolar
(Textbooks Fund and Distribution) mechanism. However, in light of a SIDA audit (which found problems
with a lack of transparency in the processing and management of the textbooks by the public distributor),
the Bank assessed the system as being inadequate to meet current fiduciary responsibilities. Therefore, in
1995, a tender for three lots (for grades 3-7 covering 23 textbooks and accompanying teachers' guides (4.3
million books)) under ICB and with a standard 15 percent preference towards national companies was
launched, and the bid was awarded to a foreign trading company. Although all 4.3 million textbooks were
delivered in 1996, they arrived 3 months late into the school year. Shortly thereafter, a number of
textbooks were reported to be of inferior quality compared to tender specifications. Accusations were
made against the Bank and the Government. In February, 1997, a commission of representatives from
GEPE and the company prepared a report, estimating the extent of damage to about US$200,000.
However, the Government, dissatisfied with the quality of the textbooks that would not last the three years
as expected, conducted a second evaluation estimating the damage to as much as US$700,000.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                         8
29.   Covenant Compliance and Submission of Audits. In general the Borrower complied
with the covenants (listed in Table 10). However, compliance was deficient with regard to the
development of a textbook policy, decentralization and one audit report (1997). The
recommendations in the periodic SOE reviews and audit reports were complied with, with the
exception of the establishment of a fixed asset register which still remains. On the financial
management GEPE's management was satisfactory, but in some instances the procedures for
award of contracts were unclear.
D. Major Factors Affecting Project
30.   From inception project implementation was affected by internal and external factors.
Early implementation was stalled, as reflected by the low disbursement rates. The project was
rated as a problem project in 1994. Some of the factors explaining the rating related to problems
with project preparation, counterpart funding, procurement, policy and personnel. The problems
are summarized below. Following project restructuring in 1995, implementation accelerated and
project performance was vastly improved.
31.   Factors beyond Government control. External factors that affected the slow rate of
implementation related to Mozambique's military and political circumstances. Implementation was
difficult in the areas outside Maputo. Also, repeated flooding of the rural construction sites
delayed the rural rehabilitation program. Furthermore, a number of problems arose with two major
contractors. These resulted in delays in the completion of the Basic Science Faculty.
32.   Factors under Government control. On the specific issue of civil works, construction
was delayed for more than three years due to a condition in the DCA, partially under Government
control, under which the project could not make disbursements against the civil works component
until a textbook policy, judged to be adequate by SIDA, was developed. As a consequence, the
absence of agreement slowed down preparation of bid documents for the civil works component
until 1994.
33.   Factors under implementation agency control. MINED did not comply with a key
covenant relating to the definition of a management decentralization policy and the construction of
schools. In this regard, the project could not initiate the bidding process on civil works until
construction units were established in at least the priority provinces. Finally, some GEPE and
MINED staff appear to have been unfamiliar with IDA procedures and guidelines. This delayed
procurement.
E. Project Sustainability
34.   The gains achieved under the Education II Project are mixed, but overall are likely to be
sustainable. The lion's share of project activities -- like the large number of new schools and
rehabilitated classrooms, the distance education program, the educational statistical system and the
construction and refurbishing of the university faculties -- will continue to be used, and
maintenance will be improved with support from the new ESSP program and the on-going
Capacity Building Project. Government funding has been increased as a proportion of total
expenditures under the ESSP and is consistent with the rolling Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework. However, the Government will continue to depend on external financing, although the
debt-reduction initiative (HIPC) will alleviate some of the pressure. Finally, the ESSP will resolve
some of the problems of financial management and flows, especially at provincial and school
levels.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                         9
F. Bank Performance
35.   Bank performance was satisfactory during project identification, and marginally
satisfactory during preparation and appraisal, as the project was a bit ambitious for a quickly
changing context (see Table 1). However, achievement of the project objectives and the size of the
project would have significantly improved the quality of education in the targeted areas and laid the
foundation for further development of the system when peace returned. One concern is that the
preparation of the project appeared to have been more as a result of the collaborative work between
the Bank, UNDP, SIDA and GEPE, drawing on Government documents, than through interaction
with Ministry personnel. This may have resulted in a lack of broader political commitment and
ownership of the project. This is attributable to the "working-culture" on both sides. Perhaps
GEPE's autonomy and its lack of alignment to line directorates within MINED in its earlier years
contributed to inadequate communication between the Bank and MINED, as GEPE was both the
decision-making and executing unit. Wider consultation, involvement and collaborative decision-
making improved over the life of the project. Later implementation was characterized by a more
open dialogue and more effective partnership, and Bank staff involved with the project were
flexible and responsive with regard to modifying project goals and timetables to align them to
Government priorities.
36.   Performance during project supervision (rated satisfactory) improved over the life of the
project and assisted with project implementation. For a long time, however, neither the
Government nor SIDA could reach agreement on the textbook policy issue. This stalled the
construction of schools for more than three years. Eventually, the project was improved from
being a problem project to one rated as "satisfactory." In some instances the Bank could have
provided better and more timely advice on procurement and disbursement. The Rural School
Construction Program was delayed because the Bank was slow in deciding on a disbursement
method for funds to WFP. Over the life of the project, the level of resources committed to project
supervision was satisfactory. On average 22.5 weeks of staff time per year were earmarked for
project supervision. Additional resources were provided through complementary activities, such as
the implementation of related projects (Education I, Capacity Building) and adopting a
participatory planning process. From the Bank's side, there has been a good deal of continuity in
personnel who have participated in project supervision. Various teams provided a good skills mix.
This helped to establish good relationships with counterparts.
G. Borrower Performance
37.   Borrower performance improved gradually over the life of the project. The preparation
and implementation of the project was satisfactory. Compliance with covenants was satisfactory
with the exception of delays in compliance with the textbook policy, decentralization and
submission of the 1997 annual audit report. However, the Borrower is not fully to blame for the
lack of compliance with the development of a textbook policy, as the drafting process was
prolonged until 1994, when SIDA undertook a technical support mission. As explained earlier, the
Government had a well thought-out plan (the EDP - reflecting national education priorities).
Therefore, it only needed information on how the Bank could assist the Government in realizing the
objectives set out in the EDP through the project. However, because most communication between
the Bank and the Borrower went through GEPE and one directorate, the "traditional" counterpart
for the Bank, wider collaboration was limited. As a result of this "culture" of interaction, the
ownership and more importantly, the knowledge about the project, including Bank procedures,
rested only with a handful of people in MINED and with the external PIU. This adversely affected
project implementation.



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                          10
38.   Earlier in the project life, personnel problems, weak internal communication between
Ministry units and GEPE, and the lack of clarity in decision-making authority resulted in obstacles
to effective implementation. This resulted in delays in procurement and procurement of unsuitable
items because of inadequate consultation with line directorates. Implementation problems were
exacerbated by a lack of experience and detailed procedures in executing a Bank project within
MINED. This burden of executing the sub-components was therefore de facto with GEPE. This
led to further dependence on GEPE to initiate almost every action. At the same time, GEPE neither
had the skills mix nor was it adequately staffed to provide support on issues of education
substance. This essentially halted implementation of the "soft" components until 1995. In 1995,
however, the project was turned around and tremendous progress was made during the last few
years before project closure. Overall, administrative capacity has increased, but remains relatively
weak in some departments, and varies widely at provincial, district and school levels. The
Borrower encountered difficulties in allocating counterpart funds, particularly in foreign currency.
One explanation is that counterpart funding has to come out of the capital budget, which is really a
contingency for the Govermnent. Another reason is the lack of congruence between the priorities
established by GEPE and core ministerial activities.
39.   A major factor contributing to the improved implementation and especially the preparation
of the new ESSP program has been the increased openness and broadening of involvernent of the
Ministry, national directorates and personnel in project discussions and activities. To this end an
increased sense of capacity and confidence has brought the collaboration to a higher and more
efficient level and has had positive influence on project implementation. The change in the
Director of the PIU in 1996 contributed to improving efficiency in project implementation.
H. Assessment of Outcomes
40.    On balance, the outcomes of the project have been satisfactory and have contributed to the
dramatic economic and political transition in Mozambique since 1992, despite difficulties and
delays in implementation. The project has greatly assisted with improving the educational system.
In absolute terms the Government has ensured expansion in enrollment by more than 10 percent
per year. The project has assisted the Government to complete the reconstruction of the school
network. At present the number of schools surpass pre-war levels. Textbooks and other learning
materials have been provided for large numbers of students, and the Caixa Escolar funding system
is showing positive results. Innovative teacher training programs, such as the distance education
program, have been established under IAP. Most of the commissioned studies and pilot activities
were completed. The project funding helped to ensure significant physical improvements at UEM.
This has also had a positive impact on the learning environment. In the area of management,
project support was extended to the Ministry of Education during the period when the Ministry was
consolidating its system following the war. The Bank fully supported and participated in the
Ministry's strategic planning process. This helped to lay the foundation for future improvements
in the system and the development of the ESSP.
I. Future Operations
41.   Resources contributed by the Education II Project have enabled the Ministry of Education
to reverse the negative trends in enrollment and instructional quality which prevailed in the basic
education system when the project began in 1991. More importantly, the project has contributed to
establishing a basis for broad sector dialogue and refining donor collaboration. The operation of
most activities funded under the project will continue to be supported under the new ESSP program
-- including the pilot on bilingual education, school construction with communities, the distance



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                          11
education program, revitalization of ZIPs, and increased provision of learning materials. Other
components are already being supported by the Capacity Building Project or being re-designed for
inclusion under the ESSP.
42.   The concluding phases of the Education II Project coincided with a strategic planning
process coordinated by the Ministry. The process involved participation by a wide variety of
stakeholders including bilateral and multilateral donors and representatives from civil society.
Bank staff participated fully in the planning process. The planning process has progressed in
conjunction with the development of the Government's Education Sector Strategic Program for
1999-2003. The program, totaling US$717 million with US$444 million Government funding, and
a US$71 million IDA Credit (approved in February, 1999) was jointly assessed by the Government
and donors in May, 1998. The ESSP is being developed as a sector-wide program (SWAP) to
provide a joint framework for all donors. The objective is to further improve quality, access and
institutional capacity. The new program will ensure continuing support to ongoing activities which
were commenced under Education II, with modifications to the activities where needed.
J. Key Lessons Learned
43.   The key lessons that emerge from the experience associated with the project are:
> Implementation through external PIU. To ensure impact on learning outcomes, project
activities should be implemented through the line directorates which are responsible for
managing the recurrent budget and which have a better sense of appropriate programs.
Furthermore, closer collaboration with end-users in the procurement decision making
process must be established to ensure the delivery of desired goods and services. In this
context it is important to identify clearly the authority and reporting level of the PIU. Lack
of clearly defined authority can result in severe tensions between ministerial staff and the
PIU. This impairs project implementation.
r* Bank's responsiveness to change/flexibility in design and allocation offunds are
extremely important for implementing projects in highly uncertain environments such as
changing political and economic circumstances like rapid economic growth or war. Such
environments can bring about large shifts in the nature and scale of the objectives. The
Bank's administrative and procedural requirements must be made easier in order to assist
task teams to better respond to such country-related changes. Bank loan/credits should be
flexible to ensure appropriate modifications of both objectives and financial allocations to
a country's changing circumstances.
> Complexity in project design. Care should be taken in the design and complexity of a
project or program where institutional capacity is weak or factors outside the control of the
Borrower have significant impact, such as civil war.
> Cross conditionality and partnerships. Cross conditionalities used in projects are difficult
to manage if the Bank is not a party to the agreement or in the absence of a sector wide
approach where partnerships are formed and project activities are joined together.
> Ownership and building trust. Without sufficient political support, trust and ownership by
the people involved in project implementation, activities will be implemented with less
effectiveness and will have limited impact on achieving development objectives



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                               12
*  Division of roles. Despite the short-term advantages of blurring implementation roles, it is
critical to establish and maintain a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the
PIU (if one exists), the state, and its external partners. Failure to do so can compromise
local "ownership" where policy decisions are concerned, and undermine administrative and
political structures essential to project sustainability.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                                13
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        X
Macroeconomic policies                                                         X
Sector policies                   X
Financial objectives                             X
Institutional development                        X
Physical objectives               X
Gender concerns                                  X
Other social ojctives             X
Environmental                                                                  X
Public sector management                         X
Private sector management                                                      X
Other
??,,,,~~~~~- .,,                             ...........   ........  ....    ..,?B?-   a?  ,?  ? ?  -X
B. Project Sustainabiity            X
. ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...... .
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                   X
Preparation                                                     X
Appraisal                                                       X
Supervision                                      X
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                      X
Implementation                                   X
Covenant compliance                             X
E. Assessment of Outcome                           X
Training of demobilized soldiers, Health and Nutrition pilot.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                               14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
A. Preceding
Operations
Education I                 15.9   Raise the quality and efficiency of primary    May 1988    Completed
Education and                      education in Maputo, strengthen the                 (ICR - May
Manpower                           training system and the capacity for                1996)
Development                        education sector policy analysis with a
Project                            focus on financial management and
planning.
B. Following
Operations
Capacity        2436-      48.6   Build and maintain capacity in key public    Nov 1992    On-going
Building:        MOZ               institutions and skill areas by expanding
Human                              the supply of well-trained senior planners,
Resources                          policy analysts, managers, and
Development                        technicians, and improving incentives and
Project                            working conditions for senior civil
servants. Specific objectives include: (a)
increasing the quantity and improving the
quality of university graduates and
stabilizing the capacity at the Eduardo
Mondlane University through systems
development and training in
administration and financial management;
repair and upgrading of existing campus
facilities and the construction of new ones,
including libraries, dormitories and staff
housing; provision of textbooks, computers
and other library materials; and provision
of graduate training for academic staff;
special emphasis on faculties of
engineering and economics; (b) improving
learning achievement in upper secondary
education through rehabilitation of six pre-
university high schools in the provinces,
including improvements in these schools,
including support for curriculum and
examination reform, provision of
textbooks and learning materials, and
training of school principals and
administrative staff; and special measures
to increase female enrollments. Use of
GEPE as PIm.



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                               15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (continued)
Education        3172-      71.0    Provide increased and equitable access to    Feb 1999  On-going
Sector Strategic   MOZ             higher quality education through
Program                             improvement in the management of
(ESSP)                             education in order to promote economic
and social development in Mozambique.
Specific objectives include: Quality: (a)
expand enrollment of pre-service training
and upgrading 15,000 under-qualified
teachers; (b) revitalize the teachers
pedagogical support zones (ZIPs); (c)
transform the curriculum to better reflect
learning needs; (d) supply about 43
million textbooks for primary and
secondary; (e) improve examinations and
assessments; (f) create a school
improvement fund; (g) train over 6,000
school directors in school management;
Access: (a) increase the number of school
places in primary by 12,000 partly
through a low-cost community building
program and build 25 new lower and 4
upper secondary schools; (b) create a
more gender sensitive curriculum and
provide 22,000 girls' scholarships; (c)
complete and implement a strategy for
expanding non-formal education, (d)
develop and test model for providing
special needs education; Institutional
Capacity: (a) build organizational
capacity and strengthen decentralization
to improve the delivery of education; (b)
strengthen capacity for policy and
planning at all levels; (c) establish an
improved financial and procurement
management system; and (d) strengthen
monitoring and evaluation, including the
establishment of the Program Monitoring
Reporting (PMR) system. The program is
mainly focused on the primary and
secondary education sub-sectors. The
Government has yet to finalize a revised
strategic framework for the development
of technical and vocational education,
adult literacy, and higher education.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                                    16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project Smunmar)     November 1988          December 1988
Preparation                                                           April 1989
Pre-Appraisal                                  October 1989           October 1989
Appraisal                                      February 1990          February 1990
Negotiations                                   October 1990           October 1990
Letter of Prospects for Developing Education                          November 29, 1990
Board Presentation                             September 1990         December 20, 1990
Signing                                                               March28, 1991
Effectiveness                                  February 1991          July 26, 1991
Midterm Review                                                        September 10, 1993
Project Completion                             October 31, 1996       December 31, 1998
Credit Closing                                                        December 31, 1998
a! Pre-appraisal mission. converted to preparatory mission (Supervision Mission Report - October 21, 1989).
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Cumulative, Estimated and Actual (US$ million)
FY91   FY92  FY93   FY94   FY9~~~~~~~.;,zFY96- FY9    WYSF9
Appraisal Estimate     3.2    4.3     8,6   10.7  10.8        8.0   8.1    --             53.7
Actual                 0.0    0.0    2.8    3.3  10.5    17.4  12.2    5.9   2.0   54.1
Actual as % of Estimate  0.0    0.0   32.6   30.8  97.2   217.5  150.6   --              100.7
a! Totals are not exact due to rounding
b/Based on Borrower's recorded disbursements by FY. Does not take into account initial deposit into Special
Account during FY91. Consistent with LOAAF disbursement records.
SAR Estimates and Actual Disbursments, Cummulative
X 60- 
S 50-
c 0 40 -                                   _                              |SAR|
E 0                                   -                                      _|Actual 
320
FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
Fiscal Year



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                                 17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. Primary Education Quality
Improvement
1. Teacher Training
a. Pre-service training:     80 CFPP instructors upgraded  Delivered. A total of 240
in math and Portuguese and    instructors received training.
160 in other courses.
b. In-service training       600 primary teacher short   Delivered. More than 600
term training              teacher received short term
training.
c. Pedagogical support       Train 12 central, 44 provincial Delivered, with the exception
and 102 district staff trained    of Saturdays session which has
in pedagogical methods.     not taken off systematically.
Initiate Saturday morning
sessions.
d. Distance education - IAP  Provide training for IAP staff  Delivered. The first 2,500
staff trained             and provide materials. Train   teachers graduated in 1998
15 monitors. Launch the new   and the program has been
distance education program  expanded to cover 15,000
and upgrade an initial 3,000   teacher over the next five
teachers. Elaborate program    years. The use of radio was
for the use of radio.       cancelled. Instead video
materials are being used
where equipment are
available.
2. Initiatives
a. Local language instruction   Launch pilot project in local   Delivered. However, results
language (Nyanja and Tsonga) are inconclusive because of
and train 60 teachers in   flaw in design.
bilingual education.
b. Student achievement       Math and science            Delivered.
evaluation                (13 years old)
c. Book supply program and    Provide 50,000 textbooks (250  Delivered. Books ordered per
textbooks program for     books for 4h and 5th graders in  year: 35,400; 5,000; 10,000
grades 3 to 7.            schools in three cities and 34   and 4.3 million textbooks for
priority districts) and     grades 3 to 7 delivered in
distribute 4.3 million      1996, however, with a delay.
textbooks for grades 3 to 7.
d. Extramural activities     Initiate activities outside  Not delivered.
school hours, e.g. in art.
e. Student health and nutrition  Coordinated latrine     Delivered: All new school
building/school rehabilitation   delivered with new sanitary
program. Implemented student facilities. NGO AMME
test for anemia, de-worming    completed school health study
program and iron            and piloted program for 1,614
supplementation completed.    pupils in three provinces.



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                                18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
3. School Rehabilitation and
Expansion
a. Rehabilitation and new   743 primary and 125 lower    Delivered. 1,550 classrooms
classroom construction    secondary classrooms        constructed and rehabilitated.
rehabilitated. 97 new
classrooms.
b. Furniture and equipment    Provide new and rehabilitated  Delivered. However, in some
(EPllEP2/ESG)             classrooms with school      cases with delays and in
furniture and equipment.   some schools furniture is still
lacking.
c. Training of de-mobilized  2,130 reintegrated.        Delivered. 2,130 reintegrated
soldiers                                              and survey conducted.
B. University Quality Improvement
1. Strategic Management        Computerization policy study,  Not delivered under
Development                  decision making MS/ structure  Education II. However, most
developed, conduct         of these studies were
transportation system study,    completed with the UEM's
student housing study, library  own resources or through
study, laboratory maintenance  support from other projects.
study and civil works
maintenance study.
2. Economics Faculty           Employ lecturers and conduct  Delivered.
training. Provide equipment.
3. Engineering Faculty         Provide equipment and       Delivered.
operationalize laboratories.
Develop fellowship training
program.
4. Construction (University)   Rehabilitate and refurbish  Delivered.
Basic Science Faculty.
C. Planning and Management
Strengthening
1. MINED planning and financial  FUNDAP (budgeting), unit    Delivered.
management program          costs studies, educational
statistical system.
2. School construction         Define department structure.   Delivered with the exception
department/rural reconstruction  Develop rural construction  of the Rural School
program                      program.                    Construction Program with
WFP, which was delayed.
Only 17 of the 55 schools
were completed.
3. School maintenance          Form GATECES in Sofala.    Delivered with delays in
(GATECES) activity                                      Maputo, Gaza, Inhambane,
Tete, Niassa, Cabo delgado
and Sofala. However, no
provision for maintenance
was provided in the budget.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                                19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Gross Enrollment Rate:
EP1 (grades 1-5)       Not specified     67%          86%      No target set in SAR,
however, MINED statistics
has recorded good progress.
EP2 (grades 6-7)      Not specified      15%          30%      No target set in SAR
However, because of the low
internal efficiency rates
under the ESSP targets have
been identified.
Gross Admission Rate      86%           79%           90%      Target set out in SAR
appears to be reachable.
MINED has succeeded in
increasing the admission into
the 1't grade.
Transition Rates EPI to   68%           77.9%         N/A      Target set in SAR has
EP2                                                            already been surpassed.
MINED preparing action
plan to further improve
intemal efficiency.
Transition Rates EP2 to   51%           63.4%         N/A      Target set in SAR has
ESG                                                            already been surpassed.
MINED preparing action
plan to further improve
intemal efficiency. To
increase the number of school
spaces MINED has
introduced "complete
schools" (grades I to 7).
Transition Rates ESG to   39%           79.3%         N/A      Target set in SAR has
EPU                                                            already been surpassed.
MINED preparing action
plan to further improve
intemal efficiency. There is a
lack of lower secondary
schools. This is partly being
addressed under the ESSP by
new constructions.
Passing Rate EPI       Not specified     54%          75%      MINED has redirected its
(Fifth grade)                                                  attention towards passing
rates as one indicators of the
improved quality and
efficiency of the system.



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                                          20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation (continued)
Student/classroom ratio      56.0            62.9           N/A       MINED has set new target at
(to be increased for                                                  60.
EPI) b/                                                               60.
Student/classroom ratio      52.5            41.7           N/A       Too low. MINED is re-
(to be increased for EP2)                                             addressing the issue to ensure
better use of resources.
Internal Efficiency Rate                   25%/9%           50%       MINED is preparing an
(Repetition/Drop-out                                      reduction   action plan to improve
Rates)                                                                internal efficiency, which
includes "cycles of learning"
(compared to stop-
examinations).
Strengthen UEM                                                        Under the capacity Building
planning and                                                          Project UEM is preparing a
institutional capacity                                                new strategy for the tertiary
education sector, including
institutional strengthening.
Increase institutional                                                MINED is undertaking an
capacity                                                              institutional assessment
analysis to identify skills
gaps and training needs.
Completion of NGO         55 schools.     17 schools.                 During discussion of the
pilot program for rural                                               ESSP it was indicated by
school construction with                                              MINED that the schools will
WFP                                                                   be completed with support
from the new credit.
Transition rates are calculated e.g. for EPl-EP2 as the number of 5 grade graduates over entrants into the 6h
grade.
bI Excludes Sofala province.
c/ In the SAR it is only specified that the internal efficiency should improve through a reduction in both repetition
and drop out rates, not by how much.
Note: No specific targets were set within the implementation period of the Project. However, most indicators used
by the Government during the same period have registered progress in both gross admission and gross enrollment
rates, while transition rates and internal efficiency rates have only improved slightly. As the Project can not
exclusively be rated on the overall performance of the sector, the achievements and outcomes have also been
evaluated on the basis of concrete outputs and results of the Project as described in the text.



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                              21
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Strategic       Review the systems and    Canceled.   The first part of the study was conducted
Management    training in planning,                  under the Education I Project.
Development    budget, financial                     The second part of the study, under the
monitoring and control,              Education II Project, encompassed
procurement and property             analysis to be financed by UNDP.
management.                          UNDP has since decided to withdraw
these studies and carry them out under a
self-standing project (Supervision
Mission Report - Sept. 14 to Oct. 2,
1992).
Finance and    Identify causes of high unit  Complied.   The output provided information to a
Management of  costs for boarding and                broader Bank study of expenditure and
Education       determine whether                    financing of social sectors in
alternative management               Mozambique (Annex III, pg. 2
techniques could decrease            Supervision Mission Report - Sept. 14/
the unit costs.                      Oct. 2 1992).
Administrative   Establish a personnel data   Complied.   System established and is currently
Costs          system, including                     being modified and updated in the
inventory of existing staff,         context of the Civil Service Reform
roles and fumctions of staff         under Ministry of Public Administration.
employed at central and
provincial level, provide
information for
Government review of
administrative costs, and
identify strategies to
expand the system with the
same wage bill.
Public          Analyze the public       Complied.   Identification of major problems to be
Expenditure     expenditure and its impact           addressed on the design of the education
Review          on social sectors.                   sector investment program (Supervision
Mission Report - Aug. 28 - Sept. 23,
1991). The study was published in 1992.
Textbooks       Analyze the utilization of    Complied.   Study carried out with SIDA support.
textbooks in classroom, the
technical and economic
aspect of production, costs
and pricing of textbooks,
and run experiments on
price sensitivity of rural
population and on
different management
arrangements for textbooks
distribution.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                                                                             22
Table 8a: Project Costs
(US$ .thousands)
~~~. 
A Prim. Educ. Quality Improvement
1. Teacher Training
a. Pre-service training                              166.4           99.3        265.7              0.0           0.0             0.0
b. In-service training                               320.3         254.7         575.0              0.0        356.0           356.0
c. Pedagogical support                               515.4       1,453.1       1,968.6              0.0       777.28           777.2
d. Distance education                                633.4       1,287.5       1,920.9            41.7       2,400.0        2,441.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...,,.W   ,   ,                                       ,,,....   .   ,,..   ......
4i                                   .~~~~~~1,635.5:    R,)4.    4,7'3oz             41.7      $5$32           3,574.
2. Initiatives
a. Local language instruction                        263.9         338.9         602.7              0.0        229.7           229.7
b. Student achievement evaluation                       8.7        165.8          174.5             0.0            0.0            0.0
c. Book flooding/supplying                             25.2        344.5         369.8              4.5        143.0           147.5
- Textbook program  a/                                                                        112.0       3,128.7         3,240.7
d. Extramural activity a/                                 5.3          95.0        100.3
e. Student health                                      25.8          99.5         125.3             0.0        284.8           284.8
..... -t... t....   ........                                  ..........   .........7   1 3.. 2.6..    I..........   3,786  ..... - .3,902 .7
3. School Rehabilitation/Expansion                   10,638.2    11,783.9   22,422.1    2,854.5                12,888.9        15,743.4
4. Training of de-mobilized soldiers at                                                                 0.0      1,950.0        1,950.0
Sub-total                                    12............5   ,2.2   28z2. 3A127 22DI                                  517
Si   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                  . . ...   .ii4    0 . .iiX ...    i  2.-1qi,E xw...--E.<,s
-    - .1 . ..  i. EE. E.......... .. .. .. . ..... ...   .   S 2. .. .   .. . .   .   .   .   E....   ..    .. . . . . . . . .   .. .  ... . . . . .   .. . .. . .    . -
B. University Quality Improvement
1. Strategic Management Developmen                        19.2    250.4    269.5                        0.0           0.0            0.0
2. Economics Faculty                                      72.1       1,189.4       1,261.5              6.0        201.4          207.4
3. Engineering Faculty                                   928.4       1,041.1       1,969.5            63.3       1,601.7        1,665.0
4. Science Faculty                                    2,448.5       4,418.4        6,866.9           960.9       8,542.8        9,503.7
S . . . t o t a l . ... . ..    . . . ...................      ..    ....  .  ..   ... . ........     1''                   '   '       '
.. . . . . .                                                            ...... ....
C. Planning and Mgmt Strengthening
1. MINED planning and finan mgmnt                        147.5   1,418.9   1,566.4                      0.0    957.3               957.3
2. School construction dept/rural                        366.6       1,715.0       2,081.6        6,835.4    13,578.9         20,414.3
reconstruction program
3. School maintenance (GATECES)                        1,049.1       1,465.0       2,514.1              0.0           0.0             0.0
4. Project management                                    638.5       1,079.5       1,718.0            46.7       1,033.6         1,080.3
............. .. .......                                .............   ........... ....  ,.ll
..............Sbtta                                        .            . ZZ1.  5E68.  7,8S0.li             E            ...... 22IL.....
Total Baseline Costs                                     18,272.4   28,499.8   46,772.3
Physical Contingencies                                     2,020.2       3,044.0       5,064.2
Price Contingencies                                        9,597.2       6,484.0    16,081.2
Total Project Costs                                      29,889.8   38,027.8   67,917.7              10,925.0   48,073.9           58,998.9
M    Total Disbursement on May 31, 1999 from "Resumo Geral Credito No. 2200-MOZ" Maputo,
including Government funding, but excluding UNDP funding.
Textbooks program  and training of demobilized soldiers were activities not described in the table Estimated
Costs and Financing Plan of the Staff Appraisal



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                                     23
Table gb: Project Financing
(US$ million)
,,W,r; ;;,:,'S r F 0 0 ~~~~~~~~W
A. Original Project
IDA                        19.4        34.3         53.7         6.0        48.1 c/     54.1
UNDP                        1.6         3.3          4.8         1.6          3.2        4.7
Gov. of Mozambique          8.9 b/      0.4 a/       9.4         4.8          0.0        4.8
Total                      29.9        38.0         67.9       12.4         51.3        63.6
a/ These foreign exchange costs reflect expenditures which the Government will incur for maintenance.
bI Government of Mozambique local costs include 4.9% in taxes.
C/ Status of Credit as of May 31, 1999. Funds remain in pipeline and US$ 32,000 to be recovered from SA.
Note: Figures do not add up due to rounding.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable: No economic rate of return was calculated for this project at the time of appraisal.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                                                                                     24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
2.02 (a)     2         C                           The amount of Credit may be withdrawn from the   Schedule 1 were amended prevailing version of
Credit Account in accordance with the        Apr. 1998, with significant reallocation of funds
Association and provisions of Schedule 1 and 2 of   between components (a) and (b) under Category
DCA.                                         1. "Civil Works".
Section 2 was amended in Mar. 1995. The
amendment restructures the Project favoring
implementation. (PSR. 6/6/95)
2.02 (b)     2         C                           The borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a   In compliance.
special account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory of the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 of DCA.
2.03        13        CD        1996    12/31/98   The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or    The Closing date were extended twice from
such later date as the Association shall establish.    10/31/96 to 12/31/98, prevailing last closing date
The Association shall promptly notify the    of 04/30/97.
Borrower of such later date.
2.04 (a)     5         C                          The borrower shall pay to the Association a   Actually negative.
commitment charge on the principal amount of
the Credit not withdrawn form time to time at a
rate to be set by the Association as of June of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.



Mozamnbique Second Education Project ICR                                                                                                   25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
J)CA    CoveuRt  ?~~~~'eient  Odg ME'aB-, NAMu.l     t4.f4~at-                              ,C~ib~
W~~~~~~~~~~'
3.01 (b)    11         C                           The borrower shall show that the share of    The share of education sector exceeds the
(i)                                                educational sector in the national general budget   requirement for recurrent expenditures and meets
is at least at 12% for recurrent expenditures, at  the requirement for investment expenditures in
least 6% for investment expenditures and both are   91, 92, 93 and 96 (Mission Supervision Reports
maintained at real FY 1989 levels, by March 31 of  Feb. 20-28, 1992, Sep. 14-Oct. 2, 1992, Mar. 15-
each year.                                   23, 1993, Dec. 1-20, 1996.
3.01 (b)    11        CP                           The borrower shall introduce in the national  In 1993, the budget line exists but there were no
(ii)                                               general budget line items and allocate to them  funds available. Due to delays in school
funds sufficient to finance, at a rate of 1% of new    construction, maintenance funds were not
construction costs the cost of maintenance of  required in that period. (Mission Supervision
newly constructed or rehabilitated buildings under   Report Mar. 15-23, 1993 and Dec. 1-20, 1996).
part b from FY 1993, and under part A.3 from FY
1996.
3.03 (a)                      12/31/91             Not later than Dec. 31, 91 the borrower must: (a)   In 1993, the budget line for school maintenance
and (b)                                            establish and maintain a school maintenance unit   was passed over to the construction unit (Mission
in Sofala Province by 12/31/91: (b) assure a  Supervision Report Mar. 15-23, 1993). In 1996,
budget line for the said unit and for the school  compliance after delay (Mission Supervision
maintenance unit in Nampula Province.        Report Dec. 1-20, 1996).
3.04 (a)     9         C                           Annually exchange views with the association on   In compliance (Mission Supervision Report Dec.
(i)                                                progress achieved in cariying out the Project.  1-20, 1996).
3.04 (a)     9         C                           Submit report on progress made in carrying out  Last report delivered to mission in August 1998
(ii)                                              the Project, its action programs and estimated  and March, 1998.
project expenditures for the next fiscal year.
3.05 (a)     7         C      12/31/91             Free sites for part A.3 (b) from occupants by Dec.   Alternative locations for school construction
31, 1991.                                   (Liberdade, Sao Damaso and Zonas Verdes) that
would not necessitate removal of families were
found.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                                                                                      26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
3.05 (b)     7         C                           Implement the resettlement plan for persons to be   In compliance.
relocated under part A.3 (b)
3.06 (a)    12         C         /91       /91     Prepare a satisfactory plan for the introduction of   Satisfactory plan approved by the Minister of
a longer school year by July 31, 1991.       Education on 9/30/9 1.
3.06 (b)    12        CD      12/31/91             Implement the longer school year by Dec. 31,  Compliance after delay (Mission Supervision
1991, starting in 1992.                      Report Dec. 1-20, 1996).
4.01 (b)     1         C                           Have accounts audited annually and furnish to  In compliance with the exception of 1997.
IDA annual reports on project accounts by Sept.
30 each year.
4.01 (a)     9         C                           Maintain records until completion of the Project,   In compliance (Mission Supervision Report Dec.
and (c)                                            enable association representatives to examine  1-20, 1996).
record and ensure that audited accounts include
separate opinion on operation of the special
account.
Sched. 1    12         C                           Signature of SIDA and MINED agreement.        Textbooks policy document prepared (SIDA
Section 3                                                                                        agreement is no longer a condition for
(b) (i)                                                                                          disbursement).
Sched. 1                                           Furnish implementation plans for A.2 of the   In compliance (Mission Supervision Report Dec.
Section 3                                          Project (i.e., the initiatives).              1-20, 1996).
(b) (ii)
Sched. 4    5          C                           Establish coordination unit within the MINED  In compliance (1997).
part A (i)                                         and establish staff to GEPE.
Sched. 4    13        CP      12/01/93             Furnish to the final manpower plan for UEM by  Partial compliance.
part C 2                                           Dec. 1993.
(c)                                                               . _                   . _



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                                                                                              27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
'g 4,411~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~owea
Sched. 4     12        CP         /93                 UEM furnish a satisfactory manpower             Partial compliance
part C 2                                              development plan for academic management, and
(b)                                                   middle level staff, including foreign training
opportunities and a comprehensive utilization
space plan for UEM by July 31, 1993.
Sched. 4     12        CP       12/31/93              UEM complete and furnish reconunendations of    UNDP has decided to carry out these studies
part C 2                                              the studies on the decision making structure    under a separate project.
(c)                                                   computerization of student registration under part
B, by Dec. 31, 1993.
Sched. 1                                              Sign contract for Radio transmittal for distance  Contract of distance education signed with
part 3 (c)                                            education.                                      CETEB. Radio will not be utilized (Mission
Supervision Report Dec. 1-20, 1996).
Key:
Covenant Types                                           7 = Involuntary resettlement                                Present Status
I = Accounts/Audits                                     8 = Indigenous people                                        C   = Covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting               CD = Complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds               10 = Project implementation not covered by 1-9               CP = Complied with partiality
4 = Counterpart funding                                 11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation  NC = Not complied with
5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 = Enviromnental covenants                             13 = Other



Mozainbigue Second Education Project ICR                                                28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
OD 10.60 Accounting, Financial reporting and  In general audit reports were submitted on time with
Auditing                                      the exception of the 1997 report. A number of SOE
reviews were conducted, but the establishment of a
fixed asset register remains.
OP 6.30 Local cost, financing and cost sharing  Counterpart funding was a continuing problem and
the rate under Schedule 1 of the DCA was amended.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
tIMM
Preparation to appraisal         N/P          N/P          116.6         164.3
Appraisal                        N/P          N/P           29.0         51.9
Negotiations through Board       N/P          N/P           19.4          37.0
Approval
Supervision (*)                 196.3        359.3        180.1a\      366 5a\
Completion                       18.0         26.8          12.3          18.3
Total                            N/P          N/P          357.4        638.7
a! Including Trust Funds
Note: Assumes FYI 988-FY1995 actual expenditures were equal to planned (and revised planned). The World
Bank Information System did not retain the "planned" figures for those years.



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                                  29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Through      Dec. 1988      n/a      n/a           n/a
appraisal
Apr. 1989     05       05      TM, TXS, EDP,
ARC, STS
Oct. 1989     n/a       15           n/a
Appraisal     Oct. 1990      03       04      TM, ECN, ARC
through
Board
Approval
Supervision    May 1991       01      n/a          ECN              n/a         n/a
Jul. 1991     01       n/a          ECN             U            U
Ago. 1991     02        20       ECN, ARC            S           S
Oct. 1991     05       n/a       ECN, PRC,
PFS, TES
Feb. 1992     02        4        ECN, ARC            U           U
Mar. 1992      02       10        ECN, ARC
Apr. 1992     02        15       ECN, ARC
Ago. 1992     02        2        ECN, ARC            S            S
Dec. 1992     03        15     ECN, PHS, SAN         S           S
Jan. 1993     02       n/a       ECN, ARC
1st       Mar. 1993      02        09       ECN, ARC
Amendment
Jun. 1993     n/a       15       ECN, ARC            U           U
Oct., 1993    n/a      n/a           n/a             U           U
June,1994     n/a       n/a          n/a             U           U
2          May-June,      05       18     PRC, EDP, TXE,         S           S
Amendment         1995                           ECN, CLS
June 1995     n/a      n/a           n/a             S           S
Jan. 1996     02        8        ECN, ARC            S           S
Jun. 1996     06       30      TM, TXS, EDS,         S           S
ECN, EDP, ARQ
Jan. 1997     06        4        EDP, ARC,           S           S
ECN, TXE,
EDS, ECN
Jun. 1997     n/a      20      ECN, EDP, ARC         S           S
Mar. 1998      03       15     ECN, EDS, PRC,        S            S
ARC, PFS
Sep. 1998     02        15       ECN, EDS            S           S
ICR        Mar. 1999      02        10       ECN, EDS            S           S
Key:
ARC: Architect                           PRC:  Procurement Specialist.
CLS: Children's Literature Specialist    SAN:  Social Anthropologist.
ECN: Economist                           STS:  Science and Technology Specialist.
EDP: Educational Planner                 TES:  Technical Education Specialist.
EDS: Educational Specialist              TM:  Task Manager.
PFS: Public Finance Specialist           TXE:  Textbook Editor.
PHS: Public Health Specialist            TXS:  Textbook Specialist.



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                           30
PART III APPENDIXES
Second Education Project
Credit 2200-MOZ
Implementation Completion Report Mission
March 9 - 26
Appendix A Aide Memoire from the Implementation Completion Mission/
Comments from the Borrower
1.    In accordance with the Statement of Mission Objectives dated March 3, 1999, a mission
consisting of Donald Hamilton (cluster team leader) and S0ren Nellemann (mission responsible)
visited Mozambique between March 9-26, 1999 to join the Ministry of Education (MINED)
coordinator Manuel Gomes and Ministry staff in the preparation of an Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the Second Education Project. The following staff and persons participated in the
evaluation: Minster Nhavoto (MINED, Minister and former Vice-minister and Director of Planning
(DP)), Vice-minister Martins (MINED, former Director of Planning and INDE), Permanent
Secretary Da Cruz (MINED, former Director of Department of Administration and Finance
(DAF)), Head of Procurement Mr. Henriques, Director of DAF Mr. Chambal, Director of
Planning Mr. Juvane, Head of Statistics and Informatics Mr. Rego, Director of Secondary
Education Mr. Bomba, Director of INDE (former Director of Primary Education) Mr. Mucavele,
Director of Documentation Center Ms. Maximiano, Mr. Mabusa (former Director of Planning),
Director of Distance Education (LAP) Mr. Muianga and his staff, Mr. Malate (engineer, GEPE),
Mr. Nhampossa (financial manager, GEPE), Mr. Amir (former Director of GEPE), Mr. Smoor
(Architect), Ms. Aakesson (textbook specialist), Ms. Cabral (former Director of Primary
Education), Mr. Cassamo (Coordinator UEM), Vice-rector UEM Mr. Venancio. In additions
meetings were held with UNDP, ASDI (Sweden), Danida and World Food Program. The following
NGOs were interviewed: AMME (Women and Education) and ADPP (People to People). The team
also consulted extensively with the former task manager Ricardo Silveira discussed the Project
with the former assistant resident representative, Jacomina de Regt.
2.     The mission wishes thank the officials of the MINED for the frank and open assistance
and courtesies extended to it. This Aide Memoire summarizes the missions findings and the
principal outcomes and problems defined between the Bank and the MINED. As usual this Aide
Memoire is subject to confirmation by Bank management. Also, for the completion of the ICR a
number of former project Bank staff will need to be consulted.
3.    The Project was prepared during the war and during its implementation experienced
profound political, social and economic changes, first with the Peace Agreement in 1992 and



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                        31
subsequently the first free elections in 1994. This coincided with a resurgence in the economic
growth to unprecedented levels. In this context the Project was restructured in 1995 to meet the
new demands of the MINED and the country.
4.    Project outcomes. Overall, the Project, as assessed by the MINED and the Bank evaluation
team, achieved good results and performed satisfactory. While the achievements of the project
objectives have been substantial, in the context of the enormous political, social and economic
changes that took place in Mozambique during the period, Project outcomes have exceeded
expectations. In some instances, like the rehabilitating and reconstructing of the almost destroyed
school network the Project exceeded its goals with the addition of resources. The rehabilitation and
construction program has resulted in a total re-establishment of the school network, now
superseding pre-war levels. On the quality component especially the in-service teacher training
program, the distance education program, the health and nutrition component, the training of
demobilized soldiers outcomes were satisfactory, however, with a more limited scope in some
cases. Also, the textbook distribution is assessed satisfactory although a number of problems arose
and created complications. In the area of strengthening the planning, management and policy
capacity at MINED and UEM little were achieved, with the exception of establishing a
computerized system systematically collecting education statistics at school level which has been
highly satisfactory. It now represents one of the best systems in Sub-Saharan Africa. The results of
other capacity building activities were marginally satisfactory and at the UEM essentially nothing
was achieved under this component, partly as a result of similar activities undertaken in the
Capacity Building Project (Human Resources Project) under the authority of the UEM. Finally,
while little were achieved in strengthening capacity for policy development, a substantial and
significant result of the support project has been the preparation of the follow on Education Sector
Strategic Program (ESSP).
5.    World Bank/Government Performance was satisfactory in supervision and implementation.
However, at times Bank backstopping and Bank interaction as well as wider collaboration on
behalf of the MINED has been lacking particularly in the early years of the Project. More
specifically:
- the preparation, formulation and appraisal of the Project was marginally satisfactory to
satisfactory as these initial phases were conducted by a very small group of Bank and MINED
members with very little consultation within the MINED and with outside partners. This was partly
due to a "working culture" throughout the Government, but also from the Bank's side a typical
focus on collaborating with only a few high level officials. Accordingly, the knowledge and
consultation within MINED was limited. The collaboration and inclusion has since then improved
through the life of the Project and it was directly expressed that the Bank was perceived with
increased openness and client focus. At the same time the Government - and MINED - has also
been opening up.
- due to the authority invested in the Director of the GEPE (PIU) and it disconnect with MINED,
especially in the area of education matters, GEPE has more been viewed as a construction unit, at
some times as a extended World Bank office, and less as a PIU. This created problems in
communication between MINED and GEPE and following changes in MINED priorities. In some
instances the Government viewed Bank no-objection as applied by the Director of GEPE or the
Bank, and therefore created an impasse for implementation of MINED activities and priorities.
This essentially led to the dismissal of the Director of GEPE in 1996. Since then, collaboration has
improved although the rules and regulation of the Bank is still perceived as complicated. However,
as Government rules and procedures are not much different and the issue is more related to lack of



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                        32
capacity. Many directors felt it impossible to overcome the "Bank rules and regulation" to access
resources. Other directors said that they have had no problems, which appeared to be more as a
result of their own initiative and relationship with GEPE, than that of problems in overcoming the
bureaucracy (procedures and rules). Overall, the Project outcomes are considered satisfactory and
the problems more a reflection of the inadequate organizational set up for the implementation of the
Project.
6.    The draft ICR was distributed to the Government, the annexes were jointly prepared and
the Borrower are preparing their own evaluation.
The following actions are required on behalf of MINED:
a) Submission of a revised and final borrower evaluation report after Bank ICR has been
submitted.
b) Notification of the date when IDA will receive the 1998 audit report.



Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                    33
Appendix B Implementation Completion Report by the Ministry of Education
The Borrower prepared a 15 page evaluation report, in Portuguese, that was discussed
internally in MINED, cleared and approved. The Borrower's evaluation report reflects
the conclusions of the Joint ICR mission and team work and does not differ in its
conclusions as the reports were discussed thoroughly within the team and with MINED.






Mozambique Second Education Project ICR
REPIOBLICA DE MOQAMBIQUE
MINISTERIO DA EDUCA0AO
GEPE -GABINETE TECNICO DE GESTAO DE PROJECTOS EDUCACIONAIS
r
From: Manuel Gomes
To: Donald Hamilton
Cc: Soren Nelleman
Subject: Gov. ICR on Education II (Cr. 2200-Nl[Z)                                  J
Sua Refcfncia             Data                     Nowsa Refe6amcia             MAPUTO,
ASSUNTO:
Dear Mr. Donald,
Please Find enclosed the ICR for Education II, with the coments from the Govt.
I look foreword to year from you at your earliest convenience.
Best regards






Mozambigue Second Education Project ICR                                    35
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2200-MOZ)
SUMMARY
This document represents the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), for the Second
Education Project (Education II) in Mozambique. The Credit was in the amount of SRD
38,7 million, and was approved on December 20, 1990 and was effective on July 1991.
The final closing date was December 31, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by the Borrower by: Manuel Gomes (Team Leader), Herminio
Malate (Head, Construction Depart.) and Antonio Nhampossa (Head, Finance) and the
collaboration of the World Bank.
The objectives of the Project as stated in the SAR, are extensively complied on the
evaluation, from quality improvement to technical training.
The other issues are: the achievement of Project Objectives, the implementation Record,
the Project Sustainability, the Bank Performance, The Borrower Performance, the new
operations and most important the key lessons learned.
In the end of the ICR, it was possible to address the assessment of the Project
Implementation, objectives by objective.
Finally the statistical annexes.
You're faithfully
Manuel Gomes



Mozambique Second Education Project ICR                                    36
SUMMARY IN ENGLISH
Project outcomes:
The second education project (BM II) achieved overall all its objectives and contributed
significantly to the reconstruction of the schools in Mozambique (about 1483 classroom
were rehabilitated and constructed). In addition 4.3 million textbooks were distributed and
the distance education program through IAP was successfully launched. Also the
construction and rehabilitation of the Basic Science Faculty was concluded and the
Engineering and Economics Faculties refurbished. Finally GEPE received a considerable
amount of both training support and equipment to strengthen its implementation capacity.
Sustainability and future operation:
The projects activities are sustainable and will be supported from the ESSP as well as on-
going project like the Capacity Building Project, BAD II and III and BID. The ESSP is
focused on (a) expanding the number of classrooms particularly in rural areas, (b) continue
the development of the teachers distance education program, (c) expand the participation
of girls' and women in primary and secondary education, (d) increase availability of
learning materials, and (e) increase institutional capacity at central, provincial and district
levels.
Lessons learned:
(1) flexibility to be incorporated at the conceptual design phase to meet changes in the
economy or political situation, (2) project staff continuity is important to ensure long-term
stability and collaboration, (3) where implementation capacity is limited it is important to
strengthen it and provide support, (4) ensure clarity in the responsibilities and roles of the
partners involved in the project, (5) sustainability is very much relying on an increasing
level of ownership by the local communities and the civil society, (6) evaluate the
sustainability of social sector projects in other poor countries like Mozambique.
Continuing expansion of the education system will continue to depend on external funding
in the medium and to long term.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 22385
TANZANIA
-12'                                /X;                                     /                    >              IP
ZAMBIA                                                                  CABO               INDIAN
Lichriga NIASSA
g      )Mtk ~~~L'ichingcX 
M AWI
14'
~~ \#*        ,   \             f               ~~~~~~~NAMPULA  
TETE
C.horo B.ss. D-m
-16' vx D \ < X X ~~~~~OCEAN16
-     w  g              ~~~~~ZAMBEZIA      
MANICA
- IE'     MANICAt               X      J |    t            ~~MOZAMBIQUE                      E
SECOND EDUCATION
ZIMBABWE               A                                             URBAN POPULATION
SPEAKING PORTUGUESE
Numbers of Portuguese
IjS   <  _   >                        *   ~~~~~~~~~~50,001 - l0,00o
5  f  /   t                            @   ~~~~~~~~~~~~10,001 -50,000
/   R          X                          @      1,000~~~~~~~~~~~~lo - 1 0,000
2?-
2r              )                   t                        Ct Less than 1,000
INHAMBANE
\   Province Capithls
t   GAZA  \               /                       @   Nartonal Capital
-     Province Boundaries
-    Internalional Boundaries
100           200      000
: w B r            I   I      I  I       I   I
It, ,~I,IgwcpJI I'
JUNE 1990






IBRD 22386
32-           12  '   >            ..t                                                 2
TANZANIA
-12                                            f -                                             INDIAN  12
ZAMBIA                                                              CABO
f   R           NtAMA          j       Q~~~~~~ELGADO 
Ut Lchinga o                   
MALAWI
<1  8    /            ~~~~~~~~NAMlPU  t < 
.I.  -                            p      ,0''"-zNannpula10'
-- )< SECOND EDUCATION
22'   a  /   \         9                                    ,                  22'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
g               o    A~~~~~~~~ccndtss ofy Accssblr
.ohom B=0 Dom                                                    A     o Air                22'
AFRICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a he, de ofroy d Internationoi Boundaries
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN 1990l 
g   |  ' <   0t             I   1 8@ t 22  W  L    2tN
2S'   [   -$  1          <                                                     26'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
)   +       p    ; -       -                      t t fhv o6b0. t s tsmsODZAMBEZrIAor
XSAIIN   t*5ttv*er..2......... 4WX..bs nssry,ods>vDri o 0rn3I
ZIMBABWE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN 1990L






PAMR ONFG  RWARUNDI N          NDIAN               34' I/                      36B                           38t                          40-
TANZANIA      OC,FAN 
.ANGOLA -  .\      wMALAWII - .           <                                          TANZANIA                                                 A     .C
o   NALsflalA  <      .e     t        d1 La09_                      _ /- }COM                         <  TA ZA I             A      11  PALM  .L
XA3 WI                                                          \                >SMARR                             D
ZAMIFA -
Z~FR                                                                                                             UED AA RAIW        A
\NAM)EIIA     .2
L40                                          A                   (00EP[BOTS WAEA MEUA
, /~~ FFUNDE   X        .12,       A     "              MAACBMI
.I'                                                    9<C 120 
<  >  AfeGCA                 / 
CH A N GeS  s A,\            u     ;           L        N E 0 V  /.-~~~~~~~~~~AJ'CUE  Peeibe
32-
Z A M B ABWE;hI U A-; :=  :"  
ZAMI     M A L AW I
/.U~~~~~~~~~~~ MEAIA                                                   LA SA  A   MECUBLIS         E >X             RA  I'- 3DPi;SnWgolspotidertlTpo
A\A                                              MBA   MO*AMB
SECOND EUCATIONA PROJEC
METARI  IN EDU-AflON INFRASTRUCTURE
j~                 '                                                    Tows t-- b    n  edgogicAl suppoGrtderAtLe ElsMA
A F R I C              A  R            L AvI
( c,       ,                                                       O, UA        100         20,0         30
/ '  [  Xj tt_ErsE                                                    aLCE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIOETERO
CI..B       'M . p6l
/ !   SWAZILAND     C     E      i                                                27,~                    = MO M
C        3rSt  \,yMU10y~A C                                 S,
-<                                                                                                                         EU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
ZIMBBWE 
o  30                'SOUTH AFRA                                         26'                       38'                        40'                    0



