CREDIT NUMBER 2200 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2200 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   NO._  J0J     1   , 1991, between REPUBLIC
OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA-
TION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Association has received a Letter of Education
Development Policy, dated November 29, 1990, from the Borrower
describing a long-term development plan to achieve the improvement
of the education sector of the Borrower (hereinafter called the
Plan) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Plan;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from Swedish Inter-
national Development Agency (SIDA) a grant (the SIDA Grant) to
assist in financing the Project including, Parts A.1. (d), A.l. (e),
and C.l. (a) of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the SIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and SIDA;
(D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a contribution (the UNDP Contribution)
to finance consultants' services to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the UNDP Contribution Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "MINED" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(b)   "UEM" means University Eduardo Mondlane of the Borrower;
(c)   "GEPE" means Gabinete T6cnico de Gestao de Projectos
Educacionais, the Educational Projects Management Unit established
and operating within MINED pursuant to Diploma Ministerial No. 34/88
jointly issued by the Ministers of Education and Finance of the
Borrower dated March 23, 1988, as amended;
(d)   "INDE" means the National Institute for Educational
Development of the Borrower;
(e)   "IAP" means Instituto de Aperfeigoamento de Professres,
the Teacher Upgrading Institute of the Borrower;
(f)   "ISP" means the Instituto Superior Pedag6gico, the
Institute for Advanced Pedagogical Training;
(g)   "SETEP" means   the  Secretariat  for  Technical  and.
Vocational Training of MINED;
(h)   "D.P." means the Department of Planning of MINED;
(i)   "Education sector budget" means the budgetary alloca-
tions within the Borrower's national general budget for the
following institutions: MINED, SETEP, UEM, and ISP;


﻿-3-
(j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(k)   "school year" means the period which runs from February
1 to December 31;
(1)   "University year" means the period which runs from
August 1 to June 30; and
(m)   "fiscal year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty eight million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 38,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Earrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit nt
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shsll accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that ye-r specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasunably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commenc-
ing May 15, 2001 and ending November 15, 2030. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on November 15, 2010 shall be
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by


﻿- 5 -
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lisu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
educational, administrative, managerial and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i)   during the implementation of the Project, furnish,
not later than March 31 of each year, evidence
satisfactory to the Association showing that the
share of the education sector in the national


﻿-6-
general budget is at least at twelve percent (12%)
for recurrent expenditures, at least at six
percent (6%) for investment expenditures and both
are maintained at real FY 1989 levels;
(ii) introduce in the national general budget line
items and allocate to them funds sufficient to
finance, at a rate of one percent (1%) of new
construction costs, the cost of maintenance of
newly constructed or rehabilitated buildings: (A)
under Part B of the Project, from FY 1993; and (B)
under Part A.3 of the Project, from FY 1996; and
(iii) carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall not later than December 31,
1991:
(a)   formally establish by the competent authorities and
thereafter maintain a school maintenance unit in Sofala province;
and
(b)   take all necessary measures to include in the national
general budget line items under the denomination of: (i) said unit;
and (ii) the school maintenance unit in Nampula province.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than October 31 of each year until the
completion of the Project conduct with the Association Project
implementation reviews to:
(i)   discuss annual Project evaluations;
(ii) monitor progress made in achieving Project
objectives;


﻿(iii) exchange information among staff responsible for
Project implementation;
(iv) identify   implementation  issues   and  propose
solutions for any current problems;
(v)   update Project timetables and cost estimates; and
(vi) discuss the projected levels of recurrent and
investment budgets of the Borrower's education
sector in accordance with    the provisions of
Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; and
(b)   promptly, thereafter, carry out those recommendations
arising out of said reviews, as agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying
out the works referred to under Part A.3 of the Project, take all
necessary measures to:
(a)   not later than December 31, 1991, free from all
occupants the sites legally attributed to MINED to carry out the
primary education school construction program referred to under Part
A.3 (b) of the Project; and
(b)   promptly thereafter, implement, in a manner satisfactory
to the Association, the resettlement plan for persons to be
relocated under the Project, referred to under Part A.3 (b) of the
Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part
A.2 (a) of the Project:
(a)   not later than July 31, 1991, complete and furnish to
the Association a satisfactory plan prepared by MINED for the
introduction of a longer school year; and
(b)   not later than December 31, 1991, take all necessary
measures to implement the longer school year, starting 1992.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at     least one year    after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,


﻿-9-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records avl accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Borrower shall have taken any action concerning the
Borrower's policies in primary, secondary or higher education that
would materially and adversely affect the objectives of the Project.
(b)   (i) Diploma Ministerial No. 92/90 of the Minister of
Education of the Borrower dated October 24, 1990, reorganizing
MINED; and (ii) the Diploma Ministerial of the Borrower, dated
1990, reorganizing GEPE shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.
(c)   The SIDA Grant Agreement and UNDP Contribution Agreement
shall have failed to become effective by June 30, 1992, or such
later date as the Association may agree; provided however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
(d)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms thereof, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely
that any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur with respect to any grant or loan
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project unless the
requirements set forth in Section 5.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement
are satisfied in respect thereof.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely that the Borrower has selected and employed
GEPE's staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association, as follows: (a) Director; (b) two Project Coordinators;
(c) Chief of Finance and Importation Department; and (d) Chief of
the Construction Department in accordance with the provisions of
Part A.5. of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely, that this Agreement has been duly ratified by
the Borrower's Council of Ministers.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor of the Bank of Mozambique of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Mogambique
Departamento de Relag6es Internacionais
Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
P.O.Box 423 Maputo, Mozambique


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:               Telex:
MOBANCO                   6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
Facsimile:
29178
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this A-reement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Catepory              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                               100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a) Part A.3.(a)          9,990,000        50% of local
of the Project;                         expenditures
(b) Parts C.3.            2,230,000
and C.5.(a) of
the Project
(2) Vehicles, equipment,      7,770,000        100%
furniture, materials
and supplies
(3) Consultants' services,    3,450,000        100%
training, studies and
audits
(4) Incremental Operating                      100%
Costs:
(a) vehicles and          2,160,000
equipment; and
(b) buildings             1,080,000


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Goods and services          650,000        100%
under Part A.1.(c)
(ii) (A) of the
Project
(6) Unallocated              11,370,000
TOTAL                38,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods and services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods and services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c)   the  term  "training" means   costs  of  fellowships,
conferences, courses, study tours and travel to be undertaken as
part of training activities described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and
(d)   the term "incremental operating costs" means cost of
operation and maintenance of equipment, vehicles and buildings
including rehabilitated or newly constructed primary and lower
secondary classrooms in the cities of Maputo, Beira, Dondo and
Nacala.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures:
(a)   prior to the date of this Agreement;


﻿- 16 -
(b)   under Category   (1)(a) unless: (i) the SIDA Grant
Agreement has been entered into between, and is legally binding
upon, the Borrower and SIDA; (ii) the Borrower has furnished to the
Association satisfactory detailed implementation plans to carry out
Part A.2. of the Project; and (iii) the resettlement plan referred
to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement has been carried out in a
manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)   under Category (5) unless the Borrower has, for the
purposes of carrying out Part A.1.(c) (ii) (A) of the Project,
entered into a contract, on terms and conditions previously agreed
with the Association, and has furnished to the Association a copy
of said contract.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of the Borrower's long-term development
plan for the improvement of its education sector described in the
Plan referred to in the Preamble to this AgreeTnnt.
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the quality
and efficiency of primary education; (ii) to improve the quality and
efficiency of the University; and (iii) to strengthen the management
of the education sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Primary Education Quality Improvement
1.    Teacher training:
(a)   Development and implementation of a teacher training
program through: (i) pre-service training courses; and (ii) in-
service training courses.
(b)   Provision of pedagogical support through: (i) reinstate-
ment of pedagogical zones; and (ii) design and implementation of a
pedagogical training program for teachers.
(c)   Design and implementation of a distance education system
through: (i) development of teaching materials and management
systems; (ii) carrying out a pilot project to upgrade the educa-
tional level of teachers and to provide them with professional
training, including: (A) rental of radio studios, for educational
purposes; (B) acquisition of small radio receivers; and (C) training
of monitors; and (iii) carrying out an evaluation of said pilot
project and preparation of a five-year plan to carry out the
distance education system starting as of school year 1995.
(d)   Development of a textbook policy and action program.
(e)   Revision of primary school curricula and development of
secondary school curricula and carrying out educational research
projects.


﻿- 18 -
(f)   Development and implementation of a long-term develop-
ment plan for vocational and technical education.
2.    New Initiatives to Enhance Effective Learning:
(a)   Implementation of a longer school year for primary
education.
(b)   Local language instruction through: (i) testing of the
use of local languages in primary education; (ii) design and
implementation of in-service training strategies and materials, and
student materials; and (iii) carrying out research work to map the
existing local languages in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)   Student Achievement Evaluation through: (i) participa-
tion in international student achievement evaluations; and (ii)
strengthening of MINED, INDE and ISP's capabilities to interpret and
manage student achievement evaluations.
(d)   Making reading materials evailable through the provision
of books in Portuguese for grades 4 and 5 of primary education.
(e)   Testing of extramural activities outside of the school.
(f)   Student Health and Nutrition through: (i) development
of special programs including, inter alia, the following: introduc-
tion of latrines, testing for worms, testing for anemia; and (ii)
carrying out studies of school children's health and nutrition
status.
3.    School Rehabilitation and Expansion:
(a)   Carrying out a school construction program in Maputo
City, Maputo Province, Beira, Dondo and Nacala, including: rehabili-
tation of about 750 classrooms and construction of about 425 new
classrooms at the primary education level, and rehabilitation of
about 125 classrooms at the lower secondary education level.
(b)   Implementation of a resettlement plan for the persons
living in the sites assigned to MINED to carry out the school
construction program referred to in paragraph (a) above.


﻿- 19 -
Part B:     University Quality Improvement
1.    Strategic Management Development:
(a)   strengthening of UEM's central level planning and
decision-making capabilities;
(b)   renovation of UEM's libraries and establishment of a
scientific, technical and humanities information system;
(c)   development of computerization policy and program,
including a material and human resource development plan;
(d)   carrying out studies to develop detailed programs for
maintenance of laboratories and physical plant, including methodolo-
gies and cost and training for middle and lower level staff; and
(e)   development and implementation of a long-term plan for
higher education, defining, inter alia, the role, functions and
goals of higher education institutions.
2.    Faculty of Economics:
(a)   strengthening of the Economics curriculum;
(b)   upgrading the academic qualifications of national
teaching staff; and
(c)   strengthening of the Faculty of Economics to operate a
second teaching shift.
3.    Faculty of Engineering:
(a)   (i)   construction; and
(ii) installation,   equipping   and  furnishing   of
laboratories in applied thermodynamics, basic
electrical engineering and electric machines;
(b)   equipping of the electronics laboratory;
(c)   acquisition of materials for the mechanical workshops;


﻿- 20 -
(d)   strengthening of the capabilities of staff of the
Faculty of Engineering to: define equipment needs, integrate new
equipment into the study program, install, operate and maintain
equipment; and
(e)   acquisition of computer hardware and software.
4.    Faculties of Sciences, Math and Biology:
(a)   physical integration of, and construction, equipping
and furnishing of buildings; services and materials for the
Faculties of Sciences, Kath and Biology; and
(b)   development and implementatioL oi a plan for human
resource development in the Faculties of Sciences, Math and Biology.
Part C:     Planning and Management Strengthening
1.    Strengthening of MINED's planning and financial management
capabilities:
(a)   development and implementation of an action program for
human resource management;
(b)   development and implementation of an action program to
establish a new system to strengthen the planning, budgeting,
financial monitoring and control, procurement and procurement
management capabilities of the education sector;
(c)   training of MINED's central and provincial staff in:
(i) techniques of design, monitoring and project evaluation; and
(ii) educational planning;
(d)   training of MINED's staff in educational planning and
management; and
(e)   strengthening DP to carry out studies designed to
improve the Borrower's knowledge of unit costs of boarding facili-
ties and administration.
2.    School Construction and Rural Reconstruction Program:
(a)   establishment, and strengthening of MINED's school
construction policies;


﻿- 21 -
(b)   development and implementation of an organizational
plan for a school construction administrative unit within MINED;
and
(c)   development and   implementation  of a rural school
reconstruction program.
3.    School Maintenance:
establishment and strengthening of local and provincial
capabilities to carry out preventive maintenance on new school
buildings.
4.    Revision of salary scales applicable to staff responsible for
school construction and maintenance.
5.    Strengthening of Project Management capabilities:
(a)   strengthening of GEPE; and
(b)   provision of training for GEPE's staff;
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1996.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works estimated
to cost $1,000,000 or more shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1. hereof, goods manufactured in Mozambique may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l. hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Force Account
Works for the maintenance of existing primary schools referred
to in Parts A.3. (a) and C.3. of the Project estimated to cost no
more than the equivalent of $700,000 in the aggregate may be carried
out by force account.


﻿- 23 -
2.    Local Competitive Bidding
Works and goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $7,110,000, may
be nrocured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
3.    International Shopping
Items or groups of items for educational and technical books
and journal subscriptions, tools and building materials estimated
to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,600,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Local shopping
Items or groups of items for furniture, bicycles, small
equipment, educational and building materials, tools and printing
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.


﻿ 24-
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subpare,raph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1. of this
Section, the Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1991
complete and furnisb evidence satisfactory to the Association, of
the contractual arrangements entered into by the Borrower to employ
consultants' services for the first year of Project implementation,
including those financed by the UNDP Contribution.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A.     Educational Projects Management Unit (GEPE)
1.    The Borrower shall: (a) establish GEPE within MINED, reporting
directly to the Minister of Education; and (b) thereafter, maintain
GEPE with the staffing and functions described below.
2.    GEPE shall be responsible for the  overall coordination and
supervision of Project implementation.
3.    GEPE shall be headed by a full-time Director with qualifica-
tions and managerial experience acceptable to the Association.
4.    For the implementation of the Project, GEPE's Director shall
be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(a)   coordination of all Project activities with MINED, UEM,
ISP, IAP, SETEP, Bank of Mozambique, Ministry of Finance, other
implementing agencies, government departments, official entities,
cofinanciers and the Association;
(b)   reorganization of GEPE and supervision of its staff,
consultants and experts;
(c)   ensuring appropriate compilation and maintenance of
Project documentation and files;
(d)   supervision of the financial aspects and accounts of
the Project, and supervision of the timely preparation of auditing
reports;
(e)   preparation of annual Project evaluation reports in
coordination with, inter alia, MINED and UEM; progress reports; and
completion reports;
(f)   making all necessary procurement arrangements related
to the Project, including calling for bids, evaluation of bids and
awarding of contracts;
(g)   meeting regularly with agencies responsible for Project
implementation to oversee implementation activities;


﻿- 26 -
(h)   implementation of the construction and rehabilitation
programs to be carried out under the Project by consultants and
contractors, including the approval of designs, contracts and
supervision of works; and
(i)   management of housing for consultants to be financed
under the Credit.
5.    In addition to its Director, GEPE shall include the following
staff, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association:
(a)   three Project Coordinators, one for each Education
Project coordinated by GEPE. Each Project Coordinator shall     be
responsible, inter alia, for the following: (i) assist the Director
in the coordination of the Project; (ii) coordinate project
implementation on a daily basis; (iii) develop the annual plan and
adjust it regularly; (iv) meet monthly with all implementation
agencies; and (v) organize semestral progress report and annual
evaluation reports;
(b)   a Finance and Importation Department, headed by a Chief
of Department, and including the following: (i) two accountants who
shall be responsible, inter alia, foi keeping financial records and
Project accounts and preparing withdrawal applications for the Bank
of Mozambique; and (ii) three procurement officers;
(c)   a Construction   Department, headed by    a Chief   of
Department and including the following staff : (i) a Civil Engineer;
and (ii) two mid-level Construction Supervisors.
(d)   a Legal Advisor (part-time); and
(e)   support and administrative staff.
Part B:     Department of Planning    (Reparticdo  de. Construcoes
Escolares)
1.    The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain, a
Reparticdo within the Department of Planning (DP) of MINED,
reporting directly to DP's Director with the staff and functions
agreed with the Association, and as described in paragraphs 2, 3 and
4 below.


﻿- 27 -
2.    The   Repartic&o   shall   be   headed   by   a   full-time
Architect/Engineer with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association.
3.    In    discharging     his/her    responsibilities,      the
Architect/Engineer of the Reparticao shall be assisted by a minimum
staff of: (a) five United Nations' Volunteers (two architects, two
engineers and one statistician), (b) one mid-level construction
technician, (c) one topographer, and (d) two draftsmen.
4.    The ReRarticdo shall be responsible, inter alia, for the
following:
(i)   updating the inventory and cadastre of existing
schools and assisting MINED with the school
mapping;
(ii) preparing   a  plan  for, and   supervising  the
implementation of, the rural reconstruction
program referred to under Part C.2 (c) of the
Project to be carried out by MINED's provincial
directorates and districts; and
(iii) developing and establishing technical procedures
and systems applicable to schools, at different
levels of education, and for contracting and
supervision procedures.
Part C:     Project Implementation Program
1.    Responsibilities of Institutions involved in Project implemen-
tation.
Parts A and C of the Project:
(a)   DP shall be responsible for: (i) the overall coordina-
tion of Parts A.l., A.2., and C of the Project; and (ii) the
organization of training and carrying out of studies to be sub-
contracted;
(b)   the National Directorate of Primary Education shall be
responsible for the implementation of pre-service training courses
under Part A.l. (a) (i) of the Project, and upgrading training
activities under Part A.1. (c) of the Project;


﻿- 28 -
(c)   the Department of Pedagogical Support of the National
Directorate of Primary Education shall be responsible for the
implementation of in-service training courses under Part A.l. (a)
(ii) of the Project and the provision of pedagogical support under
Part A.l. (b) of the Project;
(d)   IAP shall be responsible for the implementation of the
distance education system under Part A.l. (c) of the Project;
(e)   INDE, assisted by the Mozambican Language Training Unit
(NELIMO), and in coordination with the National Directorate for
Primary Education, shall be responsible for the introduction and
evaluation of the local language instruction under Part A.2.(b) of
the Project;
(f)   INDE, ISP,   the  National   Directorate  for  Primary
Education and the Department of Evaluation and Certification of
MINED shall be responsible for: (i) the implementation of the
student achievement evaluation under Part A.2. (c) of the Project;
and (ii) introducing changes into the primary education curriculum,
based on the results of said evaluation;
(g)   the Documentation Center of MINED shall be responsible
for the book distribution initiative under Part A.2. (d) of the
Project, with the assistance of the Distribuidora Nacional de
Material Escolar (DINAME), the National Directorate for Primary
Education and INDE;
(h)   the National Directorate for Primary Education shall be
responsible for the implementation of the activities described in
Part A.2.(e) of the Project;
(i)   the Department of Social Action of MINED, in coordina-
tion with the Inter-ministerial Committee on School Health, shall
be responsible for: (i) monitoring of the activities described under
Part A.2. (f) of the Project; (ii) drawing-up of a plan, in coordina-
tion with the National Physical Planning Institute, for parallel
introduction of latrines in neighborhoods and schools; and (iii)
following-up with the Ministry of Health on the carrying out of the
student health and nutrition studies;
(j)   Parts A.3. and C.3. of the Project shall be implemented
by GEPE. In discharging its responsibilities GEPE shall: (i)
coordinate   with  the   Reparticdo,   the  provincial   education
directorates and, in the provinces of Maputo and Nampula, by


﻿- 29 -
existing maintenance units (GATECEs) and in the province of Sofala,
the school maintenance unit established by the Borrower in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; and
(ii) keep said institutions informed of necessary actions to be
taken by them;
(k)   GEPE shall be responsible for the implementation of the
resettlement plan referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
and
(1)   the GATECEs shall be responsible for carrying out school
maintenance and minor rehabilitation of primary schools.
Part B of the Project:
(a)   Gabinete de Estudos e Projectos within UEM shall be
responsible for the overall implementation of Part B of the Project;
and
(b)   list of equipment financed under the Project shall be
prepared by the respective Faculty with the assistance of consul-
tants.
2.    Schedule of actions to be carried out by the Borrower during
Project implementation in accordance with the Plan.
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than December 31, 1993 complete and furnish
to the Association for its review and comments the recommendations
of the studies on the decision-making structure, computerization
policy and computerization of student registration under Part B of
the Project;
(b)   not later than July 31, 1993 prepare and   furnish to
the Association a satisfactory manpower development plan for
academic, management, and middle-level staff, including foreign
training opportunities and a comprehensive utilization space
utilization plan for UEM;
(c)   not later than March 31, in each year, until the
completion of the Project, furnish to the Association evidence
satisfactory to it of the measures taken in order: (i) to reduce
the salary budget expenditures in MINED and UEM to the equivalent


﻿- 30 -
of the incremental salaries; and (ii) not to increase the total
salary budget due to the implementation of the Project;
(d)   (i)   prepare and furnish to the Association for its
review and comments: (A) not later than June 30,
1992 the plan referred to under Part C.2.(b) of
the Project; (B) not later than June 30, 1992, the
recommendations of the revision referred to under
Part C. 4. of the Proj ect; (C) not later than
December 31, 1992, the plan referred to under Part
3.1. (e) of the Project; and (D) not later than
December 31, 1993, the plan referred to under Part
A.1.(f) of the Project; and
(ii)   promptly, thereafter, take all legal and ad-
ministrative measures necessary to implement said
plans and revision, on terms and within a
timetable agreed with the Association.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means    an  amount
equivalent to $2,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 32 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions   of paragraph   3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn    amount of the    Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been


﻿- 33 -
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


﻿1


