Dammtof
TheWorld Bank
FO  OmicIAL USE OY
RIwt No. 12321
PROJECT COMPLWION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECONDnDSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2601-4A)
.,EPTFMR 17, 1993
MiCROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12321
Type: PCR
Population and Human Resources Division
Gauntry Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Th}s doument has a restricted distribuion and may be ased by recipients only in te perfomnce of
dteir offcial duties. Its content may ot othwise be dislosed witow Word ak autorization.



CMURRECY mEqnh=AERS
(Appraisal, April 1985)
Currency Unit   Ringgit (M$)
M$ 1.00             US$0.40
US$1.00       -     M$ 2.50
Average Annual Exchange Rates to USS1.QQ
J5   1fI6 1987  1988  1989   20 199    91=  1992
M$      2.48   2.58  2.52  2.62  2.71  2.71  2.75  2.58
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
CIDA   - Canada International Development Agency
DSD    - Development and Supply Division (of MOE)
EPRD   - Education Research and Planning Division
ITI    - Industrial Training Institute (of MOHR)
MOE    - Ministry of Education
MOHR   - Ministry of Human Resources (formerly MOLM)
MOM   - Ministry of Labor and Manpower of Education
MPS    - Manpower Planning Section (of PSD)
NEP    - New Economic Policies
PCR    - World Bank Project Completion Report
PIU    - Project Implementation Unit
PSD    - Public Services Department
RPD    - Research and Planning Division (MOHR)
SAR    - World Bank Staff Appraisal Report
SOE    - Statement of Expenditures
TAVED  - Technical and Vocational Education Division (of MOE)
TSD    - Training Services Division (of MOHR)
VTE    - Vocational and Technical Education



FOR OMCU1L USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washinton D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Mofo of Dkeo4nenora
OpoMOn &vItfton
September 17, 1993
MMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTOVE DIRECORS AND THE PRESDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malaysia
Second Industnral Training Project (Loan 2601-MA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Malaysia - Second Industrial
Training Project (Loan 2601-MA) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office.
Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
In support of the second phase of the Government's investment program,
this project overlapped with efforts under a previous project, Loan 2145, in developing the
training system for technicians and skilled workers and in manpower planning The
outcome is rated as satisfactory because, despite delays and signifcant cost over-estimates,
the project achieved its targets of expanding training capacity by supplying staff, facilities
and equipment for three polytechnics and two Industrial Training Institutes (IT[s),
developing curricula and getting training programs underway.
However, in the IIIs staff and program development made less headway
than in the polytechnics. Unplanned curriculum changes lengthened the MTI courses and
thus reduced annual student output. Ihese deficiencies resulted from failure to meet staff
training targets and to utilize technical assistance for management training in the Ministry
of Human Resources which was responsible for the m  component. The Manpower
Planning Section of the Public Services Department also under-utilized staff training. The
project therefore only partially achieved its institutional development objectives.
Sustainability is likely, nevertheless, particularly for the polytechnics, because
the Government has established a ministry-level advisory council and is further
strengthening technician training with Bank assistance through a loan for a Polytechlnic
Development Project (Ln. 3571).
The PCR provides key data to substantiate that the immediate project
outcomes were satisfactory but does not fully substantiate claims that both types of
institutions are fully operational, well maintained and equipped to meet specific skills
training reqtired by industry. On-site institutional analysis would be required to pursue
these gaps.
A joint audit of this project together with the Industrial Training Project,
Loan 2145-MA, is planned.
Attachment                                    i
This document has a restried dlstribution and may be used by recipienb only In fte peformance ot their official
due Its cornents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL UE ONLY
gECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAInINa PROJECT
(Loan 2601-MA)
TANA OF C9ET
MM=UAIO  SUNWAY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i
PAINT 1. PROJECT REVIEW IRON TE =BA S'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity  .1...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Major Results of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Part II. PROJECT REVIEW MROM THE BORROUER'S PERSPEACTI
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III  . . . . . . . .  13
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . .  13
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned  . . . . . .  14
Effectiveness of the Relationship Between the Bank and Borrower   . . . .  15
Part III. STATrXSTAhL INFQORXIO
3.1  Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
3.2   Project Timetable .........................   17
3.3   Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
3.4  Project Implementation  .............  .....  ...   .   19
3.5  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
3.6 Project Results.. ..................  21
3.7   Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
3.8  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Linkages Between Loans 2145-NA and 2601-MA. . . . . . . . . . . 26
Annex 2 - Planned and Actual Costs by Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Annex 3 - Government and IBRD Financing Share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
MAP - IBRD 18710
This document has a rcstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discblosed without Worid Bank authorization.



PROJECT CONIEPLTION8pMMAP-
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2601-MA)
ZUFACR
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Industrial Training Project in Malaysia, for which Loan 2601-MA in the amount
of US$73.3 uillion was signed on July 24, 1985. An amount of US$4.8 million
was subsequently cancelled on May 13, 1986. Additional amounts of US$13.796
million and US$18.976 million were cancelled on December 24, 1990, and March
18, 1992, respectively. The closing date of the loan was originally June 30,
1991 but was extended until June 30, 1992. The remaining balance of about
US$54,220 was cancelled on December 30, 1992. There was a total of US$37.626
million cancelled through the life of the loan. Disbursements against the
loan continued until December 30, 1992. The total disbursements were
US$35.674 million.
This report was jointly prepared by Bank staff (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). The PCR is
based on (i) the findings of Bank staff on a PCR mission to Malaysia; (ii)
discussions with people knowledgeable about the project; and (iii) data from
project files at Bank headquarters. The draft PCR was reviewed with the
Borrower during the PCR mission in February 1993.



- iii -
PRWJ^CT 99MMPEIO REPORT
SECOND  XDUSTRAL TRAINING PROJACT
(LOAN 2601-NA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
IptrodUction
(M)         This project arose from the Government's concern about Xalaysia's
limited supply of skilled industrial labor force. To improve this situation,
the Government planned to upgrade the quality and productivity of the
education sector through the provision of increased student access, higher
levels of investment and improved quality of educational services. Within the
subsector, the Government also planned to improve its capacity to train
skilled and semiskilled workers and technicians (paras. 2 and 3).
(ii)        The project was identified in June 1982.  Appraisal followed in
March 1983 with the Board Presentation on July 2, 1985. The delay between
appraisal and Board presentation was due to the fact that the Government
wanted to see further development of the ongoing First Industrial Training
Project (Loan 2145-XA) before proceeding with the Second Project. The US$73.3
million loan to support the project became effective on November 1, 1985.
Total disbursement from the loan was US$35.7 million. The loan was closed on
June 30, 1992 after an extension of one year (Part III, Table 3.2).
Obiectives and Content
(iii)       The project was the second phase of the Government's investment
program to improve technician and skilled worker training. The first project
(Loan 2145-MA) became effective in 1982. The second phase project (Loan 2601-
MA), which became effective in 1985, overlapped with the first phase project
and was designed to: (a) increase the supply of technicians and skilled
workers; (b) improve the quality and management of training; and (c)
strengthen manpower development planning (paras. 3, 4 and 5).
(iv)        To achieve these objectives, the project provided civil works,
equipment and technical assistance to: (a) establish three polytechnics with
an annual output of about 2,200 technicians per year; (b) establish two
industrial training institutes (ITI) with an annual output of about 1,300
skilled workers; (c) introduce new curricula and programs in both systems;
(d) improve management of training; (e) upgrade the quantity and quality of
teaching and administrative staff; and (f) strengthen manpower development
planning in three key agencies.



- iv -
luDlementtion &xWerience
(v)         The major project components in the Ministry of Ed%tcation (MOE)
and in the Ministry of Human Resources (MOHR) experienced contracting and
procurement difficulties that resulted in implementation delays. Early in the
project, the Government and Bank disagreed regarding the award of the civil
works contract at Kuching. As a result, it was decided that loan funds would
not be used to finance that contract. The amount of US$4.8 million equivalent
was subsequently cancelled from the loan. Two ITI civil works contracts were
also terminated for lack of contract compliance and subsequently retendered.
(vi)        Project appraisal estimates  were high. A total of US$37.6
million, representing about 51X of the loan, was cancelled during the lifetime
of the loan. Project costs totaled about US$58.3 million, an underrun of
about US$63.7 million from the original appraisal estimates of about US$121.0
million. In particular, the actual cost of the polytechnic civil works
component was much lower than the appraisal estimate. Underruns were also
caused by the economy slipping into recession shortly after loan approval
which resulted in much lower than anticipated bids for this component.
Furthermore, loan funds earmarked for the civil works at Kuching were
cancelled (para. (v)). In addition, the value of the Malaysian currency
changed, resulting in more favorable exchange rates for several years.
Finally, an anticipated contribution of US$3.1 million for technical
assistance from CIDA was included in the estimated total project costs but
only about US$0.12 million was utilized (para. 11-13).
(vii)       Despite the large cancellations and the procurement delays (paras.
v and vi), the project was overall successful in meeting its objectives. All
the project institutions were completed as planned and are fully operational.
Studies indicate high levels of acceptance and demand from industry for
graduates of both the Polytechnic and the ITI systems and consequently
placement rates for graduates are high (para. 29).
(viii)      The project technical assistance component was not very
successful. Although a considerable amount of staff training was provided for
the Polytechnics, very little staff training was done for ITIs (paras. 26-27).
For the manpower planning component, the Public Services Department (PSD) met
only about 401 of its goals for staff development. MOE's Education and
Research and Planning Division (EPRD) met about 921 of its staff development
goals but MOHR's Research and Planning Division (RPD) used only about 31 of
its technical assistance allocation under the project, mainly because of
difficulties experienced in releasing staff for overseas fellowships (para.
28).
rqoject Sustainabilitv
(ix)        The Government has been consistent in its commitment to the
project. the project institutions were generally well designed, built, and
equipped. Recurrent budgets are adequately provided to maintain and staff the
institutions. Coupled with these factors, the PSD requires that all public



v 
service technicians must possess qualifications from polytechnic institutions
or equivalent. .'uzthermore, there continues to be a strong, growing demand for
the output from these institutions. NOE and MOHR currently receive a combined
total of about 25,000 applications each year for the available openings in the
polytechnics and ITIs (paras. 29, 32 and 33).
(x)         It is estimated that unit costs for training in the project
institutions (polytechnics and ITIs) range from about M$3,000 to M$4,000 per
student per year. These costs would be considered moderate and appropriate by
international comparison. Both types of institutions have estimated dropout
rates of less than 5S. The PCR mission's findings support this estimate. It
has been reported that between 80X and 95$ of the graduates find gainful
employment within the first year following graduation (paras. 29 and 30).
Uindin3s &AidLessons
(xi)        The findings and lessons learned from the project are
understandably similar to the PCR findings for Loan 2145-1A/. The Bank
should have provided a more systematic review of procurement activities during
the initial and early stages of the project. Bank staffing of supervision
missions was occasionally inappropriate to the needs of the project. The
Government has expressed concerns about Bank review and recategorization of
disbursement requests. This has sometimes resulted in differences between the
Bank's and the Borrower's disbursement records (para. 49).
(xii)       The Government's PIUs should have been more adequately staffed to
carry out the project. PIUs' planning and management should have been
strengthened to reduce the variance in the project implementation schedules,
Technical assistance contracts should have been strengthened and awarded as
early as possible to reduce input delays and errors that contributed to
procurement problems. Lessons learned from project implementation by both the
Borrower and the Bank have been incorporated into the design of the
Polytechnic Development Project (Loan 3571-MA).
I/ Malaysia: Project Completion Report for Loan 2145-MA (Report No. 9257),
December 1990.



MMIAYSA
PROJECT C0MPLET1O9  REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRINING PLQJECT
(Loan 2601-MA)
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE ANm'S PERSPECTIVE
Protect Identit!
- Project Name:   Second Industrial Training Project
- Loan Number:    2601-MA
- RVP Unit:       East Asia and the Pacific Region, Country Department I
- Country:        Malaysia
- Sector:         Education
- Subsector:      Technical and Vocational
Pro iet Bac4round
1.    Pollcy Context.  Beginning in the early 1970s, 'he Malaysian Government
carried out a set of New Economic Policies (NEP) aimed at sharply reducing
poverty, decentralizing economic controls, and eliminating the connectlon
between ethnic groups and economic function. During the decade of the 1970's,
Malaysia maintained a rapid growth in both GDP and employment, averaging from
61 to 81 and 41 p.a., respectively. Growth was particularly rapid in the
secondary sector2/, with the contribution to GDP growing about 121 p.a., and
employment growing about 71 p.a. This rapid growth led to a severe shortage
of skilled industrial labor. During the decade of the 1980s, the population
was expected to grow at 2.4X p.a., and the labor force was expected to grow at
3.01 p.a. It was recognized that a growing population and labor force would
be an important enabling factor in industrial growth only if the training
systems could deliver the quantity and quality of trained labor demanded by
industry. To meet the increasing demand, in 1982, the Government of Malaysia
initiated a program of expansion and upgrading of training with the assistance
from the Bank under the first Industrial Training Project (Loan 2145-MA)3/.
This expansion effort was continued in 1985 with the initiation of the Second
Industrial Training Project (Loan 2601-MA)_/. In March 1993, a third loan,
2/    Includes manufacturing, construction, utilities, transport, storage, and
communications.
XJ    Malaysia: Staff Appraisal Report - Industrial Training Project (Report
No. 3740a-MA), April 1982.
W/   Malaysia:  Staff Appraisal Report - Second Industrial Training Project
(Report No. 5411-MA), April 1985.



-2-
Loan 3571-MA, was approved by the Bank to assist with the establishment of
three additional polytechnics under the Polytechnic Development ProjectA/.
2.    Sector Development Obiectives. It was estimated that Malaysia would
require an annual average output of about 5,500 technicians and 35,000 skilled
workers during the decade of the 1980s, compared to the annual pre-project,
national output of about 3,500 technicians and 12,000 skilled workers. Within
this context, .he Government sought to improve the labor situation by
expanding and improving the quality, relevance and access to industrial skill
training. Consistent with the strategy of regional dispersion of industrial
activity, the Government also planned to establish new training institutions
in the less developed states where large industrial investments were planned
or had already been made, as well as in states where industry is already
active.
3.    As  important contributors in Malaysia's industrial development
strategy, the MOE and MOLM (now called MOHR) sought to carry out these
strategies throurh an investment program of consecutive and overlapped
development projects to upgrade the capacity and productivity of industrial
training and to improve the access of the poor to this type trainingW/.
Based upon these strong indicators of need and the Government's strategy, the
Bank agreed to assist the Government in the financing of the two completed
projects (Loans 2145-MA and 2601-MA).
4.    Linkages Between the First and Second Industriil Vraninn Prolects.
Although discussed more fully in the following pages and in Annex 1, it should
be noted that the Industrial Training Project (Loan 2145-MA) and the Second
Industrial Training Project (.oan 2601-MA) were closely related. Both
projects were phased inputs into a single investment program and had similar
objectives. Both had about five years of overlap in their implementation and
were implemented by the same ministries (Annex 1).
ProJect Objectives and Description
5.    Proiect Obiectives.  Az the second phase in the Government's investment
program to upgrade the capacity and productivity of industrial training, the
Second Industrial Training Project was designed tol/:
(a) ext,nd and upgrade technician training through the construction
and equipping of three polytechnics at Kota Bahru, Kuching, and
Port Dickson, to provide an annual output of 2,200 technicians,
.l/   Malaysia:  Staff Appraisal Report - Polytechnic Development Project,
(Report No. 10253-MA), February 19, 1993.
j/    World Bank, Malaysia's Manufacturing Sector:  Development Issues and
Policy Options (Report No. 3187-MA), April 9, 1981.
f/   See Staff Appraisal Report, Second Industrial Training Project, (Report
No. 5411-MA), April 26, 1985.



*3-
introduce new training programs, improve management of training,
and upgrade teaching and management staff;
(b)   extend and upgrade skilled worker training through the
construction and eq%4pping of two ITIs, at Alor Setar and Kota
Bharu, to provide an annual output of about 1,300 skilled workers,
introduce new prograss, improve management of training, and
upgrade teaching and management staff; and
(c)   strengthen selected key agencies responsible for manpower
development planning, including the provision of 63 person-years
of fellowship training and relevant equipment and facilities;
6.    Project Comoonents.  To accomplish the above objectives, the project
provided civil works, furniture, equipment ana technical assiFtance ro:
Part A: Technician Training
(1)   construct and equip polytechnics at Kota Bharu,
Kuching and Port Dickson;
(2)   (a)  introduce new training programs;
(b) improve management of technician training; and
(c) expand and upgrade teaching and management staff.
Part : Skilled Worker Training
(1)   construct and equip industrial training institutes at Alor
Setar and Kota Bhar';
(2)   (a)  introduce new training programs;
(b) improve management of skilled worker training; and
(c) expand and upgrade teaching and management staff.
Part C:  Mnjpower Develoment Planning
(1)   EPRD (MOE):  establish the operating and data management
systems for the proposed MOE computer system and upgrade the
Educational Planning and Research Di7ision (EPRD)
library/documentation center;
(2)    PD (MOR);  improve the capacity of the Research and Planning
Division (RPD) of MOHR to provide policy advice on the labor
market, particularly within the private sector; and
(3)   MPS (PSD):  strengthen the capacity of the Manpower Planning
Section (MPS) to plan for the overall requirements, supply and
deployment of manpower in the public services sector.



-4-
Pfolect Design and Organization
7.    Based upon information available when the appraisal report was issued
(April 1985), the conceptual framework for the project was appropriate and
clearly stated. The project was designed over a two-year period, with inputs
from the Government's central planning authorities, participating
ministries/institutions and Bank staff/consultants. Following the Bank's
approval of the project, there were two significant changes in the project
design. Early tn the project, the Government and the Bank disagreed regarding
the award of the civil works contract for the polytechnic at Kuching.
Although within the Government's guidelines for such procurements, the award
to the second lowest evaluated bidder was deemed unacceptable by the Bank.
Therefore, the Government decided to fully finance the construction of the
polytechnic at Kuching and request a cancellation of US$4.8 million for the
Bank loar.. The Bank agreed to finance the equipment required within that
institution.
8.    The second change concerned the instructional approach of the ITIs.  In
1987, the Government decided to stop offering short term programs (six-monch
duration) in the ITIs and began to offer only long-term, two-year programs.
This change reduced the annual graduate output from the ITIs. Hiowever, this
was in response to requests from the industry for better trained graduates and
was thoroughly discussed and agreed with the Bank.
9.    The scope and scale of the project were appropriate as the second phase
of the Government's planned investment program in industrial training.
Similarly, the preparation and expected timing of the various project
activities were well considered and documented. However, it should also be
noted that the costing of the project was overestimated. This resulted in a
total cancellation of US$37.626 million from the Bank loan. The project was
prepared with limited, clearly stated objectives. Each of these objectives
was linked to the design and timing of the previous project (Loan 2145-MA) and
to the Government's investment program in the subsector. This articulation is
most evident in the timing of land acquisition and site preparation under Loan
2145-MA with and construction phases financed under Loan 2601-MA.
10.   The project was implemented by the Ministry of Education (MOE) for
technician training (polytechnic), the Ministry of Labor and Manpower (MOLK),
now known as the Ministry of Human Resources (MOHR), for the skilled worker
trainirg (ITI), and the Public Services Department (PSD) for its project
subcomponent. The project implementation unit (PIU) for the polytechnics was
located in the Development and Supply Division (DSD) of MOE. The PIU for the
industrial training institutes was located in the Manpower Division of the
MOHR. Within the PSD, the PIU was located within the Manpower Planning
Section of the department. The roles of the PIUs and the participating
ministerial departments and institutions were well considered and clearly
understood by all parties. There have been few difficulties encountered in the
coordination between the ministries and agencies involved.



-5-
Project Implementatlon
11.   Critical Variances in Project Implementation. Both the MOHR and MOE
experienced contracting and procurement difficulties which resulted in
implementation variances. As in Loan 2145-MA, these problems caused serious
schedule changes, delays in disbursement and other implementation problems.
The project had the following problems: (a) several project institutions
suffered significant delays in construction; (b) two civil works contracts for
the ITIs had to be terminated for lack of contract compliance and subsequently
retendered; and (c) there were significant delays in equipment procurement.
12.   The delays in construction may be traced to a number of factors: (a) the
contractors had to contract and operate during an economic recession. Some
contracts were bid too low because civil works contracts were few and the
competition was strong. As the economy changed, many contractors had cash
flow problems. They found it difficult to obtain bonds and to borrow money.
Several were forced to operate on performance payments from the Government.
This type of financing was inadequate and often resulted in slow progress and
delayed schedules; (b) there were slowdowns resulting from inclement weather;
and (c) at some construction sites, there were critical shortages of labor.
13.   It is unlikely that any feasible action could have helped the civil
works contractors to avoid many of their cash flow and labor-related problems.
Conditions were simply driven by the economy at the time. If tbe difficulties
had been foreseen, it might have been possible to arrange some type if local
bank financing through which the contractors could have obtained bonds and
borrowed funds on a cost-recovery basis. However, this remedy would not have
saved the contractors who simply underbid the contracts to keep operating
during rough times. As the result of these issues (found in both Loans 2145-
MA and 2601-MA), the Government has improved its civil works planning and
contract review procedures to a point where it is now possible to better
identify qualified contractors and acceptable bids.
14.   The slow equipment procurement was the result of:  (a) delays in
construction; and (b) the Government's decisions to procure through a large
centralized effort, rather than procuring the equipment as each institution
was near completion. This was done to take advantage of scale in purchasing,
but often institutions with early completion dates had to wait for other
institutions to reach at least 60% completion so that the large tenders could
be initiated. In addition, there were some technical issues. In both
ministries, the specifications for equipment were not provided in enough
detail by the procuremer': advisors as required by their contract. This
resulted in additional delays as the specifications had to be rewritten,
refined and upgraded.
15.   There are several lessons learned:  (a) the MOE PIU was understaffed;
although some personnel were added prior the implementation of Loan 2601-MA,
the workload continued to exceed the capacity of the PIU. The unit should
have been further strengthened with more qualified staff; (b) planning and
coordination should have been strengthened to meet project schedules;



(c) procurement advisors' contracts for the preparation of equipment
specifications should have been strengthened and awarded as early as possible
to allow time for staffing and mobilization of effort; and (d) although
upgraded and computerized over the duration of the project, record-keeping
should have been further strengthened to improve data arlysis (i.e., error
checking), control of redundancies within institutions, and computer-supported
procurement packaging. All of the above lessons were also identified in the
PCR for Loan 2145-MAL/ and have been incorporated into the design of the
Polytechnic Development Project (Loan 3571-HA).
16.   Techncal Assistance.  MOE contracted with the same technical assistance
contractor as it had done in the previous project (Loan 2145-HA). MOHR did
not exercise its option to contract with that company, and for that matter,
did not contract with any major technical assistance contractor. During the
previous project (Loan 2145-MA), both ministries had identified several
unsatisfactory outcomes from the performance of this contractor. In this
project, the contractor's performance was considered satisfactory by MOE.
17.   Following the approval of the project, MOHR decided to limit its
technical assistance to activities financed by bilateral donors and to make
minimum use of Bank-financed consultants. For curriculum development, the
ministry decided to rely upon its own resources and on assistance provided by
CIDA.
18.   ProiectRisks.. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified a single risk
to the implementation of the project (Para. 2.29). It noted that the PIU of
MOHR may not have the capacity to implement the ITI component as planned. The
SAR stated that this lack of capacity had been a problem in previous projects.
The project incorporated staff development activities and specialist services
to strengthen the implementation capacity of the PIU. These efforts were only
partially successful. The risk was appropriately identified.
19.    overnmaent Actlons Taken or not Taken which Affected Project
mnlementation. Throughout the duration of the project, the MOE PIU requested
more staff to support implementation requirements. The Government has slowly
responded to this need. During the project, the PIU received additional staff
to support the civil works and accounting areas. The staffing situation
continues to improve, but it must be recognized that staff shortages have
contributed to a loss of efficiency and a frustration and lowering of staff
morale in the PIU.
20.   To support the increasing data and documentation responsibilities for
its projects, the PIU of MOE, over the past several years, has begun to
computerized much of its data base and financial records. This activity has
been partially financed by the project.
P/    Malaysia - Project Completion Report for Loan 2145-MA, (Report No. 9257,
Part I, Para. 17).



-7-
21.   In the case of the MOHR, additional staff were required for the PIU as a
condition of Loan 2601-MA. Gradually, however, during the later years of the
project, the level of staffing eroded while the workload of the unit
increased due to the delays experienced in the Implementation of the project.
The lack of staffing must be considered a barrier to project implementation.
22.   In both MOE and MOHR, additional, unplanned curriculum development was
initiated after the first procurement effort. In particular, the MOHR decided
to modify the curriculum and course duration to relate more directly to
industrial needs (para. 8). These changes required reprogramming and
additional procurement of equipment. The change to long-term programs also
resulted in the lowering of expected graduation outputs within the project
ITIs.
23.   Except for the above, the Government made no major policy changes in the
training system during the project. The Government is still firmly committed
to the established need for technician and skilled worker training and has
supported the preparation of the subsequent Polytechnic Development Project
(Loan 3571-MA) as the third phase of its investment program. As such, the
three projects (Loans 2145-MA, 2601-MA and 3571-MA) have been linked to the
subsector development strategies of the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Five-Year
Development Plans (1980-1995).
Maior Results of the Prolect 2/
24. Project Qbjectivees. There were three major objectives in the project.
In the first objective, technician training, the training capacity goals for
the polytechnics have been reached as planned. At full operation, it is
expected that the institutions will marginally exceed the planned output of
the project.
25. Resource utilization has been increased by several measures during the
implementation of the two overlapped projects. The polytechnics have begun to
offer short-term and evening programs. A decision has been made to move
toward larger and more cost-effective institutions where the labor market
demand warrants. The design of the third project reflects this change in
policy as project institutions are being designed to have more than twice the
design capacity of existing institutions. The Government has also decided to
increase the student/teacher ratios (in theory courses) where the facilities
allow. Polytechnics have also altered their policies so that they may offer
training services to industry on a cost-recovery basis.
26.    Formal and informal advisory committees have been established in most
of the institutions. Because of the success of this effort, the Government
has decided, to establish a ministry-level advisory committee to support
polytechnic development. This committee has already been established and has
met several times. The teaching staff for the polytechnic system have been
upgraded and trained over the duration of the investment program (Loans 2145-
2./   Refer to Part III, Table 3.6 for project results at completion.



-8-
MA and 2601-MA), although the system is currently running about 20%
understaffedlQ/. Feasibility studies for new courses now include analyses
of the needs of employers. Expatriate consultants have studied needs of
industry and developed or revised courses to target them more directly on the
needs of industry. A marked improvement in management capacity has been noted
over the duration of the project.
27.   In the second objective, skilled worker training, the MOHR did establish
the design capacity of the ITIs as planned, however, there were major changes
in the instructional approach in the ITI system that reduced the graduate
output from the planned thirteen hundred graduates to about five hundred per
year at full capacity. This was in response to demands from industry for
better trained graduates. Furthermore, the staff development goals of the ITI
were not met.   From the original project allocation of US$5.1 million
(including US$3.1 million from CIDA) for specialist and training services to
support ITI development, the Government spent a total of about US$176,000.
Fourteen foreign and local fellowships were provided by CIDA and several other
bilateral agencies. These inputs supported the modification of existing
curricula and the development of several new courses in response to national
and regional needs. New apprenticeship programs were established in at least
two ITIs.
28.   In the third objective, manpower development planning, three key
agencies were to be strengthened though the provision of specialist services,
training and equipment. The Education Planning and Research Division (EPRD)
of MOE met about 92% of its planned training goals. The division also met its
equipment procurement goals as planned. Required specialist services were
provided through equipment vendors and the single specialist contract that
supported the whole of the MOE project component. The Research and Planning
Dilision (RPD) of MOHR did not meet its planned development goals.  Records
show that the division spent only about 3% of its total project allocation
(US$600,000) for equipment, specialist services and fellowship training.
These expenditures financed a small amount (about US$20,000) of short-term
training services. The Manpower Planning Section (MPS) of PSD reached about
40% of its planned training goals (in person-months). The division spent
about 741 of its equipment allocation and about 471 of its allocation for
specialist services.
29. ImDact of Project. The impact of any vocational and technical education
project must be measured in the quantity, quality and employment of its
graduates after full implementation. When fully established, the three
participating polytechnic institutions should graduate about 2,200 trained
technicians each year. The two established ITIs should also graduate about
500 trained workers each year. Graduate technicians and skilled workers from
both systems are readily employed. Employment statistics suggest that the
average placement of graduates from both systems ranges from 80X to 95%
following the first year after graduation. This shows a high level of
IQ/   Under the project, the ministry sponsored a total of 178 local and
foreign long-term fellowships and 564 local and foreign short-term
fellowships.



-9-
Industry demand and acceptance. As such, the output from the institutions
should immediately contribute to the industrial development goals of the
country. With a combined total of over 25,000 applications for enrollment in
these systems each year, it is evident that there continues to be a high
social demand for these training services.
30.   Because of the relatively large scale of the institutions and the
institutions' demonstrated ability to control dropouts, annual unit costs for
the training in both the ITIs and the polytechnics are reasonable. Annually,
they have an average range from about M$3,000 (US$1,153) to about M$4,000
(US$1,538), including the cost of room and board. The moderate costs for
training, coupled with the potential for improving the external efficiency
(and growing wage differentials) combine to support the assumption that the
calculated rates of return for the institutions would be good to excellent.
31.   Due to the inputs of both projects (Loans 2145-MA and 2601-NA), the
institutional impact may be also be seen in the broadened scope of services
provided and the new specializations introduced in both the polytechnics and
the ITIs. These training services are all based on industry demand.
Progect Sustainabilitv
32.   The potential for project sustainability is excellent.  The Government
has been consistent in its commitment to the concept of the polytechnics and
ITIs with plans for the ongoing maintenance and improvement of the systems.
The administrative units in both ministries are well established and
experienced. In addition, the institutions are well designed, located, built,
staffed and equipped. Prospects for long-term financing and linkage to
industry are promoted by a set of broad policy reforms recently prepared by a
cabinet-level committee. These reforms include (1) the establishment of
permanent advisory committees at the institutional and national levels; (2)
increased flexibility in the management of educational and training
institutions in matters of course design and curriculum; (3) greater
collaboration with the private sector in setting up courses and training
programs on a cost-sharing or cost-recovery basis; (4) undertaking studies to
explore the operation of training institutions to make them more effective;
(5) the establishment of Centers of Excellence which would focus on research
and development in new and emerging technologies in specific industries; (6) a
continuous review and improvement of course design and curriculum to suit
market needs; and (7) wider dissemination of labor market information,
especially to employers, school leavers, and workers.
33.   With these factors present, there is every reason to assume that the
institutions will continue to provide large quantities of trained manpower to
the industries of Malaysia. Coupled with these factors, the Government has
decreed that all public service technicians must be possess qualifications
from polytechnic institutes or equivalent. The Government is also preparing
to carry out its third investment phase, Loan 3571-MA, which was approved by
the Bank in March 1993.



-10-
Bank Performance
34.   Ma_or Strengths and Weaknesses.  As in the previous project (Loan 2145-
MA), it was found that the project costs were overestimated during project
preparation. The PCR, for Loan 2145-MA, pointed to several reasons for the
overestimation: (a) the economy was unstable at the time of appraisal and
there was a need to be cautious in the estimations; (b) about the time the
loan was approved, the economy slipped into a recession that allowed the
Government to award most of its larger contracts at much lower prices than
originally estimated; (c) the inflated appraisal estimates also drove price
contingencies up, contributing even more to the overestimation; and (d) the
value of the Malaysian currerncy changed over the life of the project to a more
favorable exchange rate.
35.   All of the above factors were also apparent in Loan 2601-NA.  In
addition there were two other factors to consider. The CIDA contribution to
the project (US$3.1 million equivalent) was included in the SAR estimate of
total project costs. Also, the cancellation of the civil works financing for
the polytechnic at Kuching increased the differences noted in the
disbursements. All these factors contributed to an overestimate of more than
100l of the actual project costs. This variance was costly to the Government
as it had to pay excessive commitment charges on the Bank loan. As in Loan
2145-HA, the Bank supervision missions repeatedly pointed to this concern.
The Government should have requested cancellation of funds much earlier than
it did.
36.   Early in the implementation cycles of both loans (2145-MA and 2601-MA),
the Bank found that the projects were having problems in contracting of civil
works. Since then, the Bank has provided significant inputs through its
supervision missions. Because both projects were often supervised during the
same review mission, it was possible to support the coordination and linkage
of the two to a common set of goals and objectives. These missions were much
more cost effective and often provided a better quality of Bank input than
would have been possible under the usual supervision arrangements.
37.   Throughout the implementation of both projects, there has been
significant turnover of the Bank's task managers, disbursement officers, and
lawyers. Part of this situation may be attributed to the Bank's
reorganizations and the normal movement of staff from division to division.
Nevertheless, there is reason to believe that the Government has been given
mixed signals regarding Bank procedures and that a more coordinated approach
would have resulted in improved implementation of the project.
38.   The previous project (Loan 2145-MA) had significant initial
implementation problems. Although they were gradually solved, these delays
and difficulties resulted in a loss of project efficiency. The MOE component
of Loan 2601-MA has shown improved implementation efficiency. This is due, in
part, to better management information in the PIU and formative inputs during
the Bank supervision process. The implementation weaknesses were identified
early and were found to be due to solvable problems. With continued inputs,
improvements were made to the point that the PIU in MOE is now fully capable



-11-
of managing projects. It is now managing several projects from various
agencies. This improved efficiency has not been noted in the MOHR component.
Borrower Performance
39. XaJor Strengths and Weaknesess. The Government has a strong commitment
to the general development of polytechnics and ITIs. It has been remarkably
stable in its support of these institutions. The institutions are well
supported by the Government's administrative agencies who operate them.
Pedagogical and administrative planning has been satisfactory. The Government
has also allocated enough funds to operate the institutions at levels that
were expected by the Bank.
40.   However, the Government did have some problems in the implementation of
both projects (loans 2145-MA and 2601-MA). Throughout the duration of the
project, there were staff shortages in the PIUs and limitations in the skills
necessary to effectively implement the ptoject. Future projects should
include the continued upgrading of PIU capacity, including the recruitment of
qualified staff, the training of senior officers and the continued improvement
of the management and financial information systems.
Project Relationship
41.   The staffs of the PIUs and the Bank staff have an excellent working
relationship. The PIU staffs have considerable experience in their dealings
with the Bank and other multilateral and bilateral donor organizations. In
this project and in the previous projects, the relationships have generally
been open and positive.
42. Imnact of Relationship on Project Imnlementation. The PIU staff
relationship with the Bank has been a positive factor in the implementation of
the project. As in Loan 2145-MA, the Bank had some difficulty in obtaining
audit certificates for the project accounts and appropriate proof of
expenditures for the Statement of Expenditure (SOE) accounts. However, in
both cases, these problems were resolved after discussions with the
Government.
Consulting Services
43.   A single technical assistance contractor provided specialists and some
fellowship/training services to MOE. The role of the contractor was
significant and was a major determinant in the implementation of the project.
Although difficulties with this contractor had been noted in the PCR for Loan
2145-HA, the MOE indicated that there were no significant problems during the
implementation of this project.
44.   MOHR decided to refrain from contracting with a single provider of
technical assistance services. Instead, the ministry used the services of
CIDA and other bilateral donors to obtain some specialists and fellowship
training services (14 fellowships). However, the amount of the services
provided did not fulfill the demands of the ITI project component.



-.12-
Project Documentation and Data
45. Adequacy of Staff AppraiLal Report (SAR) and MXaor Paiers. Except for
the high cost estimates, the SAR and the supporting papers were well prepared
and provided the essential data required to finance and implement the project.
The SAR did not have a table showing the expected performance indicators for
the project. The PCR mission compiled one from a review of the project
documentation (see Part III, Table 3.6). Although changing in format and
prepared by different Bank staff, the supervision reports were reasonably well
done and generally consistent in their findings and recommendations.
46.   Availability of Relevant Data to PCR Xission.  The MOE has improved its
documentation considerably over the duration of the project. Within the past
two years, much of the essential documentation within the MOE has been
computerized and is made available in various formats. The PCR mission
generally found that the MNO project data were of reasonable quality and
directly related to the needs of the mission. As expected, the quality of the
data from earlier project years was less satisfactory. The documentation from
PSD was also excellent.
47.   Within the MOHR, there were severe limitations in the PIU's capacity to
provide the required data. Much of the data is not computerized and,
although, in some cases it was available, it was difficult to organize and
analyze. The PCR mission did receive excellent cooperation from the unit,
which allowed the mission to collect much of the required data through
interviews and the analysis of several Ministry-prepared documents.



-13-
Part I. PROJECT REVIEW PROM THE BORROWER' S PERSPECTIVE
Adequcey and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
48.   The Bank has provided an accurate presentation of factual data in Part
III. The Government considers it to be adequate for the purpose intended.
The data was fairly presented and provides an insight to the issues and
concerns associated with the implementation of the project.
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Jearned
49.   Over the duration of the project, numerous Bank missions have visited
Malaysia. Although these missions have provided significant input into the
implementation of the project and have certainly been helpful to the
Government, several concerns were noted over the years. A number of these
concerns were also identified in the PCR for Loan 2145-MA. The concerns are
listed as follows:
(a)   Many missions were understanding and helpful, making commitments
which were later modified by the Washington office. This created
some confusion and sometimes required additional communications to
clarify and reach agreements on issues and actions.
(b)  There is a need to provide a stronger foundation of historical
documentation so that future missions can understand the unique
issues being faced by the implementing agency. In addition, new
Bank personnel should be required to follow previous Bank
commitments and agreed upon procedures. These commitments and
procedures should be well documented for the benefit of both
parties.
(c)   Some earlier mission members were not knowledgeable about the
technical aspects of vocational-technical education (VTE) and its
unique implementation requirements. Technical projects should be
supervised and assisted by experienced specialists who can, in
turn, assist the PIU to fully implement the project activities.
This issue has been largely rectified over the recent years of the
project.
(d)   There was a lack of continuity in the interpretation of
procurement guidelines. As Bank staff and management changed,
procurement guidelines were interpreted in different and sometimes
confusing ways.
(e)   When the Government submitted requests for disbursement of loan
funds, the Bank was inconsistent in its feedback regarding changes
that were made in the reimbursement categories identified for each
request. This resulted in some inaccuracies in Government
records.



-14-
(f)   There was a lack of flexibility and continuity in the
interpretation of guidelines for proof of purchase for SOEs. The
Government perceived that it had an understanding regarding proof
of purchase, based upon its unique situation.  As Bank staff and
management changed, the issue had to be revisited and major
changes were necessary, late in the project cycle, to meet the
requirements of the Bank.
50.   Major Lesons 8earned.  Future projects would be improved if there is an
early clarification and understanding between the Government and the Bank
regarding both parties' expectations and procedures. There should also be
more flexibility and continuity given to the interpretation of the various
documentation requirements of the Bank. Bank supervision missions should be
staffed with qualified technical personnel who understand and can advise the
Government on the implementation of the project. Similarly, the restaffing of
the supervision teams should be reduced to a minimum level. Associated with
this issue, the Bank should recognize the need for continuity in its
supervision process and should seek to better support the decision-making and
recommendations of the missions.
51.   It is recommended that, in future projects, the Government and the Bank
agree to participate in project start-up seminars just prior to loan
effectiveness. These seminars would encourage project implementation in an
organized and systematic manner. It is also recommended that Bank staff
provide more inputs to the projects during the critical early years of
implementation. These inputs should help to reduce problems that arise in
later stages where it is more difficult to rectify them.
Evaluation of Bogover's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
52.   The three PIUs have all experienced some difficulties in implementing
the project. The following issues are of particular note.
53.   In the administration of the project, the level of staffing proved to be
directly related to the quality of implementation. Throughout the
implementation period, the PIUs have been understaffed. The result is a
significantly reduced capacity to monitor and document the costs and
activities of the project and to administer the myriad of activities required.
54.   In the procurement of civil works, there is a need to tighten up the
contractual procedures and requirements to insure better qualified bidders and
to maintain control of schedules and costs. In addition, there is a need to
initiate better field supervision of the contractors. Associated with this is
a need for a more thorough analysis of soil conditions at building sites.
There is also a need to continue to improve the recording systems of the PIU.
55.   In the procurement of equipment, the line agencies and their contractors
should be more concerned about the timely preparation of course requirements
and equipment specifications to eliminate time losses resulting from
cancellation of orders, rebidding and redundancy of orders. The contractual
arrangements with consultants should be reviewed to improve the adherence of



-15-
contractors to agreed upon schedules and deliverables. More careful contract
supervision and willingness to require good performance is also needed.
Associated with this is a need to continue to upgrade the computerized
management information system to support the procurement process.
Effectiveness of the Relationship Beteen the Iank and Borrower
56. The relationship between the Bank and the Government of Malaysia has
been excellent. Issues of concern are discussed openly and both organizations
have been eager to resolve the issues as soon as possible.



PART III. STATISTIrCAL INRM4XI
Tsble 3.1: Retato  Bw* Lo
LoWn                                             Yest Of
Title           Purpoe                          Aproval        Status           Cinmt
Ln. 599-MA      Incre"se output of                1969        Cowploted         Successful
first           skilled middle-level                                             Implementation
Education       anpower through con-                                            overall
Project         struction of 6 vocationat
secondary schools and 5
technical secondary
schools
Ln. 810-MA      Increase technicat and            1972        Completed         Successful
Second          vocational training with
Education       7 more vocatScnal and one
Project         technical secondary schools
Ln. 974-MA      Assist in technical               1974        Co pleted         Successful
Third           training through estab-
Education       lishmant of one poly-
Project         technic at Kuantan
Ln. 1329-MA     Support industrial skill          1976        Conpleted         Successful
Fourth          training through addition
Education       of 3 Industrial training
Project         institutes (ItIs)
Ln. 1657-NA     Assist In development of          1979        Completed         Successful
Fifth           long-term strategies for
Education       middle-level occupational
Project         training
Ln. 2145-MA     Support the production of         1982        Completed         Successful
industrial      technicians and skilled workers
Training        through the establishment of
Project         three polytechnics and three ITIs
Loan 3571-MA    Assist in the establishment       1993        On-going
Polytechnic     of three polytechnics to
Development     provide about 13O000 additional
Project         training places



-17-
Table 3.2: PreJect Timatab.t
Stage                                           Ptanned Date        wevised Oate         Actuat Oate
Reconnaissance                                  03Y07/82                                 0/07/82
Identification                                 06116182                                  06/16/82
Preparation                                     11/08/82                                 11/08/82
Appraisal                                       05/15/83            03/27/83             03/27/83
Postappraisal                                   10/01/83            07/03/83             07/O3/83
MA                  NA           10/14/84 IV
Loan Negotiations                               03/15/84            12/83                04/22/85 I/
Board Approval                                  05/15/84            02/84                07/02/85
Loan Signing                                           W                    W            07/24/as
Loan Effectiveness  s                                                                    11/01/85
Project Comptetion                              06/30/90 o                               10/31/92
Loan Closing                                    06/30/91            06/30/92 /          06/30/92
N Mission updated cost estimates and impileantation schedules.
Data unavailable.
L/ Closing date revised on January 11, 1991.
j/ Designed as a sequel of the First Industrial Training Project (Loan 2145-MA), the Second Industrial
Training Project was postponed until further progress was made in the iwplementation of the first
project.



g                                                              
g g#g j g 8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ... .X.;n
a.3                                              | -,      ....4.0.......            .......
I..                                                               9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  000
1 s6usssssi l : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                  . . . . . . . . . .
-    w* 0                                                      4 4
o                                                                                                                               0
-                                                                - i-                                                                                                                             4l
X   | l    a     g  a  a g                                 >M                                     *                   *.   .  . . . .   _ 
-~~~~~~  



-19-
Table 3.4: Proiect Igmgem"ntateon
Ccciencesrnt    Delay      Coaplet1an       Detay
ActfiAty                          Planned Actual   (m0a.)   Planed Actual   (msu.)
Civil WorIf.
Polytechnics:
Kota Bharu                  07-85    t0-85      3       06-87    05-88E     11
Kuching J/                  07-85    08-85      1       09-87    01-89c/    15
Port Dicison                07-86    08-87#/  13        06-88    05-9 j    22
ITIs:
Alor Setar                  09-85    10-86    13        02-87    12-89e/    34
Kota Sharu                  09-85    10-86    13        02-87    06-89k/   28
Consultents
Technician training            07-87   g/                  06-89   A/
Skilled worker training        07-86    g1                 06-89   g/
Manpower development planning  07-85    9/                 06-86    8/
Fettowshiw
Technrian training             07-85    g/                 06-90    05-V2      23
Skilled worker training        07-85    08-87    23        06-90    05-92      23
Marpower development plarning  07-85    9/                 06-89    05-92      23
a( First student intake. June 1988.
I taRD funds allocated to civit works were cancelled effective Nay 13, 1986.
c First student intake: June 1989.
Delays caused primarily by the breaking up of the original partnership of the Architect.
First student intake: June 1990.
e/ Civit works prime contract was terminated in Kay 1989; construction
was resumed under a new contract in September 1989.
1/ Civil works prime contract was terminated in July 1988; construction
was resumed under a new contract in December 1988.
a' Exact dates are unavailable. A CIDA project team and consultants were already in the field because
of involvement in Ln.2145-MA.



-20-
Table 3.5: Prolect Costs ad Financins
A. Project Cost
(US$ mill tIon)
Azuiasal Estiate                     ctuat 
Foreign                           Foreign
Local    Exchuige                 Locat   EXchaWe
Category                            Costs      Casts     Total         Casts     Costs    total
Civit works 8 profess. services I/   27.0       15.5      42.5         16.1       8.7       24.8
Equipm.,furniture A materials          7.9      29.4      37.3          5.0      20.0       25.0
Technical Assistance                   1.2      1S.3      16.5 Yi       1.4       7.1        8.5 /
Contingencies                         8.5       16.2      24.7          0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Cost                   44.6       76.4     t21.0                   3SLI          1 U.
Per cen*                             37         63       100           39        61        100
/ site development cost for Kota Bharu and Kuching polytechnics were provided under
Loan 2145-NA.
k/ Amoumt inctudes about US$3.1 million In CIDA comitted funds.
s/  Amount includes about US$116,000 provided by CIDA.
B. Prciect Financir.
(USS milliIen)
source                                       Agreement    Revised    Revtsed    Revised    Finat
1986 a     1990 h/    1992g g/ t& g
Techdician Training
Civit works & professional services             14.2        9.4        9.4        6.5        6.1
Equipment, furmiture, vehicle & materials       26.5       26.5       17.5       15.2       15.3
Consultant's services & fellowships             11.2       11.2       10.4        6.3        6.5
Subtotal                                        51.9       47.1       37.3       28.0       27.9
Skfiled Yorker Training
Civil works & reloted professional services      2.5        2.5       2.5         2.6        2.6
Equipment, furniture, vehicle & materials        7.0        7.0       7.0         2.8        2.8
Consultant's services & fellowships              3.1        3.1       3.1         0.1        0.1
Subtotal                                        12.6       12.6      12.6         5.5        5.5
Nanpower Dewetopment Plaming
Equipment, furniture, vehicle & materials        0.3        0.3       0.3         0.5        0.5
Consultant's services & fellowships              2.6        2.6       2.6         1.8        1.8
Subtotal                                         2.9        2.9       2.9         2.3        2.3
Unallocated                                        5.9        5.9       1.9          0.0       0.0
TOTAL I3RD                                        73.3       68.5      547          i         Di
GON                                              64.6                                         22.5
CIDA                                               3.1                                         0.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               121.0                                        58.3
W    Cancellation of US$4,800,000 for civil works at the Kuching polytechnic, May 13, 1986.
W    Cancellation of US$13,796,000, December 24, 1990.
SJ Cancellation of US$18,976,000, March 18, 1992.
yf   Cancellation of undisbursed balance of US$54,219.67, December 30, 1992.
j/ Source: ISRD disbursement records.



-21-
Table 3.6:  Prolet Rut
A. Olrect Benefits of Prolect
Appraisal         Actual at         Estimated at
Indicators                              Estimate           Closing Date      Futl Devalopment
Technician ra Inim
Physicat Devetopment
Kota Bharu Potytechnic            Complete 06^87   Complete 05-89
Capacity                       1,500 students    1,783 students    1.800 students
Kuching Polytechnic               Complete 09-87    Complete O0-89
Capacity                       1,500 students    1,500 students    1,S00 students
Port Dickson Polytechnic          Complete 06-88    Comtlete 05-90
Capacity                       1,500 students    1,500 students    1,500 students
Total enrollment                  4,500 by '89       4,185 students/1  4,800
Annual output                     2,200 by '91       2,000 students    2,280
Course and Staff Development
Post-graduate/industrial
experience overseas fellowships   50 persons         50 persons /Z
Preservice degree training         130 persons       100 persons
Preservice diploma/first degree   72 persons         28 persons
In-service short-term training    MA                 564 persons
Short-term specialists
Overseas                       72 person-months 72 person-months
Local                          72 person-months  not implemented/3
Management
Fellouships, overseas             24 persons         76 persons
Fellowships, local                24 persons         24 persons
Skilled Vofe-r Trainina
Physical Development
Alor Setar ITI                    Complete 02-RE    Complete 12-89
Capacity                       500 places         500 places/4       500 places
Kota Bharu ITI                    Complete 02-87    Complete 06-89
Capacity                       500 places         500 places/4       500 places
Annuat output                      1,300 students   361 students/2      475 students/2
Course Development
Specialists, overseas             216 person-months 15 person-months /J
Staff & Management Development
Specialist skills & management,
overseas training                  103 person-years  5 person-years
Basic skills, local training      200 person-years  not implemented
Overseas specialists              60 person-months  not implemented
Naiooew Derteaomnt Plamina
EPRO/MOS
Consultants to establish
operating & data systems           l8 person-months   MA /Z
Fellowships, overseas             56 person-years   60 person-years
#D/MOHR
Consultants                       24 person-months  not implemented
fellowships, overseas             51 person-months  5.5 person-months
NPS/PSD
Consuttants                        18 person-months  12 person-months
Fellowships, overseas             68 person-months  28.5 person-months
/i Enrollment: Kota Bharu 1,783, Kuching 936 and Port Dickson 14.66 students.
Includes short-term overseas fellouships.
4 Change in project design eliminated need.
/ Enrollment: Alor Setar 371 and Kota Bharu 460 students.
4 Reflects change from a six-month program to a two year program in response to industry
requests.
Provided by CIDA and ILO.
/t Consultants' services, not required because of staff expertise, were substituted
by provision of microcomputers; Sank gave no objection.



-22-
Table 3.7:  SWus. otf _mnts
LWan _greet
Reference                 Cove_ant                                            StaM &ROr
3.01.(b)           Shall carry out the ProJect In accordance with the         Coeplied with.
leplementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agremnt, as suck Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
3.03               Untit at Least the completion of the Project, maintain     CopLied with.
in existence the Project Units and ensure that their
powers and responsibitities, as set forth in Schedule 5
to the First Loan Agreement, are not substanttally
modified without the prior agreement of the Bank.
4-01-ta)           Maintuin records and accounts adequate to reflect, In      Complled with.
accordance with sound accounting practices, the
oDerations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
4.01.(b)           Have the accounts referred to in 4.O1.(a) for each         Complied with.
(i)              fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)             Furnish to the Bank not Later than six months after the    Complied with.
end of each fiscal year a certified copy of the report     Detays MOE, 2-6
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in       mos.; mOR, 5-17
such detail as the Bank shaLl have reasonably requested;   ms.
(iii)            Furnish to the Bank such other Snformation concerning      CoopLied with.
said accounts and the audit thereof and said records as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
4.CO.1c)           For alt expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Loan eccount on the basis of
statements of expenditure:
(i)              Maintain separate records and accounts reflecting such     Complied with.
expenditures;
(ii)             Retain, untit one year after the Ctosing Date, atl         Comptiance to
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts      continue through
ad other documents) evidencing such expenditures;          June 30, 1993
(iii)            Enable the Bank's representative to examine such           Complied with.
records;
(iv)             Ensure that such separate accounts are included in the     Complied with.
annuat audit referred to in 4.01.(b) and that the report
thereof contains, in respect of such separate accounts,
a separate opinion by the said auditors as to whether
the proceeds of Loan withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided.



-23-
Table 3.7:  Stau  pf Coverants
tContimtiani)
Lon Agreamnt
Referaene               co_ int                                                  Status/    s
Schedule 5          Staft Ansoontuanto ln the PAqlect Unit   NONE Etthen         Coptied with
Part A             O     Appoint three staff whos" quat Iticatons,
experience, and responsibilities are satisfactory to the
lank, to deal with, respectively: equipment procurement;
eduinistration of technical assistance and training
programs; and external relations.
Part I            Other Staff     !nt     .  Staff required for the proper   Cooptied with
carrying out a thereafter operation and maintenance
of the Project shall be appointed In the IT1s, the
Training Services Division of NOMR, and the TAVED of
NOE, in accordance with qualifications experience, and
time schedules satisfactory to the lank.
Part C            Staff Training and  eglteshi I.  Training of staff, and    Coiptied with
selection of staff for the award of fellowships, shaLl
be carried out in accordance with programs and criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.



-24.
Table 3.8: Use of m    R
A. ftatIwJt;
ISDusa          MrAlsel to    Megatiatfnm      Saervsiaen       Other A         Total
Fiscal     prasl          NeltIatitns
rear     _ 
1982       12.6                                                              3.5            16.1
983        71.4                                                              3.7            75.1
1984                        3.6                                              0.1             3.7
19S5                       12.2             3.1                              5.9            21.2
1986                                                         6.4             0.4             6.8
1987                                                         7.7             0.3             8.0
1988                                                        10.2                            10.2
1989                                                         3.8                             3.8
1990                                                        9.6                              9.6
1991                                                        14.0                            14.0
1992                                                        10.6                            10.6
1993                                                         3.6             8.0 bi         11.6
Total      81.0            15.8              3.1            65.9            21.9           190.7
I Including Project Administration and Coatnetion Report.
Planned
TabLe 3.8: Use of 1o*
B.  nk I  fu 1 i
Mission              Nhnthl      No. of      Estited    Specialtzatin             Ovwerall    Types of
oar        Persons    Days in       Reptesented              Statu      Probtem
Field
Reconnaissance       03/82       1           16 ND        Economist                MA         MA
Identification       06/82       3          20 ND         Economist, Tech.        NA          NA
Educator, Plant Trns.
Specialist
Preparation          11/82       7           19 MD        Economist, Tech.         MA         KA
Educator, Education
Advisor, Industrial
Trng. Specialist,
Architect
Appraisal            03/85       6           19 ND        Economist (3), Tech.     MA         MA
Educator, Info.
Systems Specialist,
Research Assistant
Postappraisal        06/83       1           6 SD         Economist,               MA         MA
10/84      3           17 MD        Tech. Educator,
Architect, Operations
Assistant
DaOs in field: D-- Nlsslonday; SD-- Staffday



-25-
Table 3.8: Use of Bank Resourres
B. ankt fissions
(Cont inuatan)
Missien               Uantb/      No. of      Estimeted    Sgpcimlizatt,on        OCetlU    Tywes of
tear       Persono   Doys in         Represented             Stntu       Probsem
Field
Supervision
1                   12/85           2       10 SD        Architect               I
8 SD        Tech. Educator
2                   03/86           2        7 ND        Architect, Tech.        I           PN(2)
Educator
3                   07/86           2       14 MD        Architect, Tech.        I
Educator
4                   12/86           1       13 SD        Tech. Educator          I           NMHR:
PK(2),
AF(2)
5                   03/87           2       11 ND        Tech. Educator,         2           PN(2)
Facilities Planner
6                   07/87           2        9 MD         Facilities Planner.    2           PN(2)
operations Assistant
7                   02/88           2       14 MD        Architect. Tech.        2           PN(2)
Educator
8                   09/88           1        5 So        Tech. Educator          2           P1(2)
9                   02/89           1        6 SO         Industrial Training    2           PN(2)
Specialist
10                   09/89           1       12 S0        Industrial Training    2            PN(2)
Specialist
11                   03/90           2        6 MD        Industrial Trainins    2            PN(2)
Specialist,
Architect
12                   10/90           2       14 SD        Industrial Training    2            PM(2)
Specialist,
Architect
13                   06/91           1       not           Industrial Training    2           PN(2)
available    Specialist
14                   03/92           1        5 SD        Tech. Educator          2           PN(2)
PCR                  02/93           2       24 SD         industrial Training    2           PM(2)
Specialist,
Architect
Notes
Pao   in fiptd: sD-- Staffday; S-- Nissiondey. Loan 2601-MA was supervised concurrently with Loan 2145-NA
and therfore, days in the field have been reported jointly.
Overall status ratings (based on Form 590, lpLementation Summary): 1--problem-free or minor problem; 2--
moderate problems; 3--major problems.
Imalementation oroblems are Identiffed on Form 590 as moderate problems (rating 2) in the follouing areas:
PU--Project Management Performance; and AF--Availability of Funds.



-26-
Linkates Between Loans 2145-NA and 2601-NA
1.    The Industrial Training Project (Loan 2145-MA) and the Second Industrial
Training Project (Loan 2601-MA) were closely related for a number of reasons:
(a) both were phased inputs to a single investment program; (b) both projects
were prepared using virtually the same economic analysis and assumptions (the
second project was identified in 1982, about the same time that the first
project became effective; (c) both projects had similar major objectives and
components; (d) for the most part, both projects were implemented by the same
ministries, PIUs and staff; (e) generally, both projects were supervised
during the same mission by the Bank; and (f) the projects had about five years
of overlap in their implementation periods. It should also be noted that the
two projects were identified and prepared using the same key Bank staff and
management. All of these factors combine to suggest that there would be
similar PCR findings for both loans.
2.    The PCR findings did reveal that the successes and shortcomings of both
projects were quite similar. Furthermore, it was revealed that, in general,
the reasons for the shortcomings were the same in both projects. Because of
these linkages and similarities, both projects could easily have been reviewed
in a single PCR. This was not to be, as the PCR for Loan 2145-MA had already
been prepared and accepted by the Government and the Bank. It was therefore,
decided that the PCR for Loan 2601-MA would be prepared using the same format
as used for Loan 2145-MA. The document was intentionally written to reflect
the similarities between the two projects while accurately describing the
unique features and differences of each project.
3.    In comparing the two PCRs, it was found that a number of sections would
present virtually identical findings. Where the documentation and detail in
the PCRs were that similar, nearly identical paragraphs were used in both
PCRs. This approach in the presentation was intentional as it further
illustrated the unique linkages between the two projects.



-27-
ANEE 2 and 3
Anex 2
Ptlwisd and Actual Costs by Comonnt
(US$ mittion)
Appraisal      ctual Cot
Coanuit                                     Estimate      Estimate /a
Technician Iraiinno (MME)
Civil works & professional services            36.0           18.6
Equpment, furniture & materials                29.0           22.0
Consult@nt's services & feLlowships             9.1            6.5
Total Technician Training (HOE)                74.1           47.1
Skilled lorker Training (NOWE)
Civit works & professionat services             6.5            6.2
Equipment, furniture 8 moterials                8.0            2.2
Consultant's services & feltowships             5.1/b          0.2/c
Total Skilled Worker Training (MOHR)           19.6            8.6
N_a er oevetqpant Planning
EPI0 (HOE)
Equipment, furniture & materiats              0.1            0.7
Corsuttant's services & fellowships           1.3            1.6
Subtotal EPRM (MOE)                           1.4            2.3
RPD (MOHR)
Equipment, f 'niture & m3terials              0.1            0.0 /d
Consultant's services & fellowsHips           0.5            0.0 /d
Subtotal PRO (MOHR)                           0.6            0.0 /d
MPS (PSD)
Equipment, furniture & materials              0.1            0.1
Consultant's services & feltowships           0.5            0.2
Subtotal WPS (PSD'                            0.6            0.3
Totat Manpower Devetopment Planing              2.6            2.6
Contingencies                                    24.7            0.0
Total Project Cost                              121.0           58.3
/a Actual costs were estimated on the basis of IBRO disbursement records and data provided
by the involved government agencies during the PCR mission.
lb Amount includes about US$3.1 million CIDA funds.
/c Amount includes about US$60,000 paid by the IBRO loan and US$116,000 by CIDA.
Xd Amount less than US$50,000.
A mex 3
Government and 1BRD financina Share
(USS million)
-  Appraisat Estimates  ---------        ---Act-----------ua        -
IBRD                                          IBRD
Category of                                            Share                                          sham
Expenditure      0GM       I8R      CIDA    Total       (X)      GOU      IBR      CIDA    Total       Ml)
Civil Works,     30.9      16.7              47.6        35     16.1      8.7       --      24.8       35
including
professional
services
Equipment,        9.8      33.8      --      43.6        78      6.4      18.6      -       25.0       74
furniture &
materials
Technical         --       16.9      3.1     20.0        85      --       8.4       0.1      8.5       98
Assistance
Unatlocated       3.9       5.9      --       9.8        60                          -                  -
Total            44.6      73.3      3.1    121.0        61     22.5     35.7       0.1     58.3        61



- b t- .o^'-: .  -. E                                     .t ^MALAYSAI
SEfCO   INDUSTRIAL TRAING PROJECT
^    Ig         TH A I L A  N D                                            A.
.,   .  -   <   Ot St<_s   t          b      L m    .  .   .          _    FENRW MAN
.m                             . fl /r ,_E )  Nk , - OOtto ,.
:-----  SJT4 aorA M S
.  I -                               -   -  t AP AK   A   At A  N4  t M
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, F A  <t 6  C    E   GA NU -tl
s @ e * - 0 Gir \ ) | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  o .t                                             h
i- - =d 5 s 72 { t \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C h,  
|E-L*    .   -   -   %K5f Z A NGOtt  t99o  .   ~             t
TA. .HAI.ANO.--A     
A    ,     , S  X. EY
4, '         .v-Kffi->                                                     ) 
R    -KAIAMANTAN          S u m  t
FEBRUARY 1985



