Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
o,'- Al. O- 0 A
R.pod No. P-4065-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
_                                PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
*ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$73.3 MILLION
TO MALAYSIA
FOR THE
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
*                                           May 7, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
TI      docu_.t has a .esbiced disrbtim aW my be used by recipients only ,n the performnce of
d or icia dube. Its conents nmy not otherw   be disosed withwut Wold 8an}k ahoiaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ringgit (M$)
Average 1984              April 1985
(Value used for cost estimates)
US$1.00  =  M$2.40        US$1.00  =  M$2.50
M$1.00   =  US$0.43       M$1.00   =  US$0.40
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
EPRD    -  Educational Planning and Research Division
ITI     -  Industrial Training Institute
MOE     -  Ministry of Education
MOL     -  Ministry of Labor
MPS     -  Manpower Planning Section
PSD     -  Public Services Department
RPD     -  Research and Planning Division
TAVED   -  Technical and Vocational Education Division
TSD     -  Training and Service Division



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
SECOND INDuSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Malaysia
Amount:                US$73.3 million equivalent
Terms:                 Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace,
at the standard variable rate.
Project Description:  The pro,ect, which would assist the Government to
complete the long-term investment program in technician
and skilled worker training started under the first
Industrial Training Project (Loan 2145-MA), is designed
to (a) increase the supply of technicians and skilled
workers; (b) further improve the quality of training and
strengthen management of training; and (c) improve
manpower development planning. It would provide for:
(i) construction and equipping of three polytechnics, at
Kota Bharu, Kuching and Port Dickson, with a total
enrollment of 4,500 and a planned annual output of about
2,200 technicians; introduction of new training courses
to meet industrial needs; training for polytechnic
staff; and strengthening of management; (ii)
construction and equipping of two industrial training
institutes, at Alor Setar and Kota Bharu, with a total
training capacity of about 1,000 pLaces (at any time)
and a planned annual output of about 1,3OO skilled
workers; the introduction of new training programs to
meet industrial needs; training for industrial training
institute staff; and strengthening of management; and
(iii) improvement in the manpower development planning
capacity of selected governmental agencies.
The project, from 1990 onwards, would increase the
annual supply of technicians and skilled workers by
about 2,200 and 1,300, respectively; upgrade training
and introduce new programs; strengthen management of
training; improve the regional distribution of training
opportunities and increase effectiveness of manpower
planning and labor market information as an input to
national planning. There is a risk of delay due to
limited capacity of the Ministry of Labor to implement
its project component; however, under the project the
Ministry's staff would be strengthened and technical
assistance would be provided to minimize that risk.
This doument has a nsticteddistribution and may be usedby recipients only in the perfornnae|
--      I ~~of thesofficialduties. Its tntso may not otherwm bedLsckoeod whout WordEBank authonzation-



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                             Local  Foreign   Total
TUS  millon) --
Technician training:
Physical development                                  29.3     35.8    65.1
Course, staff and management
deveLopment                                           0.8       8.3     9.1
Subtotal                                             30.1     44.1    74.2
Skilled worker training:
Physical development                                   5.5      9.0    14.5
Course, staff and management
development                                          0.4      4.7      5.1
Subtotal                                              5.9     13.7    19.6
Manpower development planning                            0.0       2.5     2.5
Base Cost                                             36.0     60.3    96.3
Physical contingencies                                   3.6       5.3     8.8
Price contingencies                                      5.0      10.9    15.9
Total Project Cost                                   44.6 /a  76.4   121.0
Financing Plan:                                             Local  Foreign   Total
(TUS. mifon)  --
IBRD                                                     0.0     73.3    73.3
CIDA                                                     0.0       3.1     3.1
Government                                              44.6       0.0    44.6
Total                                             44.6      76.4   121.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                             1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
…(USS miLiMET ---
Annual                               1.5    9.5   20.0   24.0   13.0    5.3
Cumulative                           1.5   11.0   31.0   55.0   68.0   73.3
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 5411-MA, dated April 26, 1985
Map: IBRD No. 18710
/a   Including approximately US$2.0 milLion in duties and taxes.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Malaysia, for the equivalent of US$73.3 million to help finance the Second
Industrial Training Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government of Canada intends to make a grant of Can $4 million to Malaysia to
ascist in financing a portion of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia: Structural Change and
Stabilization" (No. 4829-MA), was issued on November 15, 1983. This section
reflects, also, the findings of subsequent Bank missions which visited
Malaysia in 1984.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,870 in 1983 is among
the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita GDP growth has
averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4X p.a. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors including the country's wealth in natural resources, especi-
ally ample reserves of cultivable land and oil and gas; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; favorable developments in the world economy; good economic
and financial management; and, not least, stable social and political institu-
tions. Three specific elements have been important: first, substantial
attention and priority has been given to agriculture, resulting in high pro-
ductivity gains in the sector which have cushioned-against occasional steep
price declines; second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12Z
p.a., in the last two decades, following first an import substituting pattern,
but later increasingly oriented towards exports; third, in a very open
economy, with exports and imports recently averaging more than 50% of GDP,
exports have diversified from an initial large dependence on rubber and tin to
include palm oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55Z of the
population indigenous Malays, 35% Chinese, and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between
ethnic communities, and has also been struggling with a serious poverty prob-
lem. The incidence of poverty covers all ethnic groups, but remains dispro-
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Sabah Forestry TechnicaL Assistance Project scheduled for approval by
the Board of Directors on May 21, 1985.



-2-
portionately high among Malays; their average per capita incomes were only
half those of the Chinese community. In 1971, the Government declared a New
Economic Policy (NEP), and accorded the highest priority to eradicating
poverty and reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment, and owner-
ship of assets. Specific quantitative targets, to be achieved by 1990, were
established for these objectives. Particular emphasis has been given to
accelerated growth of the modern sector (i.e., outside traditional agricul-
ture), as about 1 million jobs (or 90Z of all new employment) need to be
created in the non-agricultural sectors during 1985-90.
5.        The Malaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes. Industry has replaced agriculture as the major contributor to GDP
and exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the cut-
ting edge of industrial growth. In particular, there has been a remarkable
and dominating increase in exports of electronic goods over the last 15 years.
Export diversification (particularly through palm oil, petroleum, and more
recently LNG) has proved important, as some of MaLaysia's traditional major
foreign exchange earners show signs of flagging vitality. Tin production has
steadily declined in the face of weak prices, the exhaustion of many mines,
and increasing costs of extraction. Although timber production has recently
been buoyant, exploitation of the resource has led to detrimental environ-
mental consequences, and the Government has plans for restricting logging in
the future. Finally, rubber production has been fluctuating across a
declining trend for several years. While factors specific to the cultivation
of rubber have been at work, an important reason has been the migration of the
young and educated from the farms to the towns. This has fostered a major
structural change in the Malaysian economy, as it appears that the agricul-
tural labor force may now be peaking in absolute numbers. In turn, this
suggests rather different strategies to be followed in the agricultural sector
in years to come, both to maintain agricultural production as well as to
tackle the large extant problem of rural poverty. In recognition of this, the
Government has recently published a policy document to guide future agricul-
tural development which takes into account the emerging trends in the sector.
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional diffi-
culty. This has been particularLy true in the most recent international
commodity price cycle. Between 1977 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber,
timber, and petroleum increased rapidly, and export receipts nearly doubled.
The terms of trade improved by about 25X in the same period, and real national
income grew by more than ll p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually
all of Malaysia's export commodities began to fall and, over the next two
years, the terms of trade declined by more than 8%, representing a loss of
national income of about 52. Anticipating, in 1980, a short international
recession, the Government introduced a countercyclical fiscal policy, compris-
ing large expenditure increases and tax cuts, in an attempt to maintain domes-
tic income levels. This combination of falling commodity prices and an expan-
sionary fiscal stance led, in 1981 and 1982, to very large fiscal and balance
of payments deficits; thus in 1981-82, the current account deficit on the
balance of payments averaged 11Z of GNP, while the overall public sector
deficit averaged 18% of GNP. Overall GDP growth averaged 6Z p.a., and
inflation initially accelerated before falling to 6% in 1982.



- 3 -
7.        To finance these large deficits, the Government had to borrow
heavily, both domestically and abroad. Domestic borrowing was largely non-
inflationary, from the Employees Provident Fund, the national oil company and
the commercial banks. Even so, the ratio of domestic debt to GNP grew from
about 37Z to nearly 48% between 1980 and 1982. Increasing proportions of the
deficits had to be financed from abroad, and the level of disbursed public
external debt almost doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16% to 32% of GNP);
there was, in addition, an important shift in the sources of G3rrowing, away
from project financing towards market borrowings. Because of the low levels
of external borrowing of the previous decade, this surge in the 1980-82 period
has not given rise to a high burden of debt service. As a proportion of
experts, debt service on private, public and publicly-guaranteed HLT debt was
11.92 at the end of 1984.
8.        The unsustainability of deficits of the magnitude experienced in
1981 and 1982 has been clearly recognized by the Government, and a policy of
expenditure restraint was implemented through 1983-84 and strongly affirmed in
the 1985 budget. In the course of 1983-84, development expenditures of the
Federal Government fell by 20%, and the federaL deficit was reduced substan-
tially - from 17.8Z of GNP in 1982 to 7.1% in 1984. However, due to a con-
tinuing expansion in expenditures by other parts of the public sector, the
overall public sector deficit did not decrease as sharply as the federal
deficit. In addition, private sector investment expenditures rose by 23% in
real terms, refLecting largely the impact of higher outlays by quasi-public
agencie§,currently misclassified under the national accounts in this
sector.- This offset to an extent the adjustments being made by the Federal
Government. As a result, the balance of payments current account deficit
registered only a small improvement - declining from 14.4% of GNP in 1982 to
11.7% in 1983. In 1984, the Government exerted greater control over the
consolidated public sector which, combined with continued restrictions on
federal government spending, helped to improve the current account deficit to
the level of 7.3Z of GNP.
9.        Assuming a sustained international economic recovery and continued
expenditure restraint by the Government, the fiscal and external deficits of
Malaysia should reach manageable levels over the medium term. With the heavy
borrowing recently undertaken, and with anticipation of future, albeit lower,
external deficits, the debt service ratio will increase later in the decade.
It is expected , however, to stabilize at acceptable levels (between 15%-20Z
of exports). At the same time, the present and ongoing expenditure retrench-
ment, although starting from a high level, has placed the public investment
budget under strain, and is likely to affect future growth prospects. In this
regard, it is becoming increasingly important for the Government to ensure the
efficiency of the public sector investment program. Recognition has also been
given by the Government to the need to tackle some of the economy's structural
difficulties. As noted above, a National Agricultural Policy has been
2/   According to the classification of the Government, major off-budget
agencies like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICOM (the heavy
industry corporation) are not included in the public sector.



-4-
announced.  A comprehensive review of development strategy is contained in the
mid-term review of the Fourth Malaysia Plan released in April 1984; among the
initiatives already announced is proposed "privatization" of many public
sector activities. Industrial studies (on export and production incentives)
are being undertaken, in conjunction with the Bank, to ensure the continued
contribution of this important sector to the economy. A series of initiatives
to sustain development are being discussed in the context of preparations for
the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1981-85), albeit in more difficult financial
circumstances than were foreseen before the onset of the recession.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA 31
10.       The Bank has, to date, made 61 loans to Kalaysia, totalling
US$1,606.00 million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power,
water suppLy, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban
transport. As of March 31, 1985, the effective loans to Malaysia held by the
Bank amounted to US$1,263.34 million. A total of 40 loans to Malaysia have
been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IFC
investments.
11.       In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy towards Malaysia has
aimed at assisting the Government to alleviate poverty in the country. The
Government's thrust in this area has been twofold: first, to maintain a high
overall rate of growth for the economy and thus facilitate and encourage a
labor shift from low to higher wage occupations; second, to raise the produc-
tivity and incomes of farmers directly through a variety of agricultural
projects and programs as most poverty is concentrated in the rural areas. The
Bank has been associated with both aspects of this strategy - by assisting the
Government to overcome impediments to growth (for example, by len4;ng for
vocational education and for power) and also by lending for a long sequence of
agricultural projects. These have indeed enjoyed major success in raising the
incomes of beneficiaries, substantially increasing the foreign exchange earn-
ings of the country, and contributing to a high economy-wide growth.
12.       Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has not
diminished in the wake of the recent economic difficulties. As noted, these
difficulties are in part structural, fostered by very rapid and successful
development, and in part financial, resulting from the recession and internal
countercyclical policies. Tackling these problems, which entail tight fiscal
and foreign exchange constraints likely to persist for some time, has become
the dominant objective of economic management.
13.       In its lending strategy, the Bank intends to continue lending to
agriculture and thus tackle poverty directly. At the same time, recognizing
3/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Sabah Forestry Technical Assistance Project, scheduled for approval
by the Board of Directors on May 21, 1985.



-5.
th,e changed economic situation and prospects, and responding to a Government
ri.quest, the Bank is also assisting in sectors where serious structural
ps-oblems or institutional deficiencies exist. The Bank is assisting such
sectors as education, transport, power, water supply, and industry, and will
thus be making a more diversified as well as substantial contribution to
alleviating Malaysia's balance of payments and fiscal constraints over the
medium term.
14.       Although overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in
Malaysia has been satisfactory, ir has recently been seriously affected by the
country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in project dis-
bursements, which dropped from US$111 million in FY82 and US$137 million in
rY83 to US$87 million in FY84. Disbursement performance, measured in terms of
the rates of actual disbursements to cumulative undisbursed amounts, was 0.19
in FY82, 0.22 in FY83 and 0.14 in FY84 (compared to regional averages of 0.19,
0.20, and 0.20, respectively, in the same years).
15.       Apart from lack of counterpart funding, the major problems causing
disbursement delays in Malaysia are: delays in project start-up due to
manpower shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures, and the
limited capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting
industry. To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project imple-
mentation reviews with the central and implementing agencies in Kuala Lumpur.
These reviews and the corrective action taken by the agencies subsequently
should have a positive impact on project implementation and disbursements. In
this respect, FY85 approval of project restructuring and/or increased
disbursement rates for five agricultural projects under the SAP should be of
considerable help. It is also proposed to reinforce the implementation
reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements and procurement (a disburse-
ment seminar was arranged in June 1982 and a procurement seminar was conducted
in March 1983, both in Kuala Lumpur) for the benefit of the implementing
agencies.
16.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling US$21.19 million.
The total investments held by IFC, as of March 31, 1985, amounted to US$12.50
million (Annex II).
17.       As noted earlier, at end-1983, Malaysia's debt service ratio on
public and publicly guaranteed debt was about 11%. In the same year, debt
service on Bank obligations constituted about 6% of total debt service. With
the rapid increase in market borrowings in the last three years, the propor-
tion of Bank disbursed debt in total disbursed debt has fallen from about 15%
in 1979-80 to less than 9% at end-1983. Various projections, on a variety of
assumptions, suggest that the Bank share in debt service and total disbursed
debt of Malaysia is likely to remain well below 10% through the rest of the
decade.



-6-
PART III. THE INDUSTRIAL MANPOWER AND TRAINING SECTOR
Industrial Manpower Demand and Supply
18.       The Demand for Industrial Manpower.  To meet the demand for skilled
workers and technicians in Malaysia, the Government, in 1982, initiated a
major program of expansion and upgrading of industrial training. At that
time, it was envisaged that there would be an annual growth in industrial
output of 10% and employment of 3.2% over the period of the Fourth Malaysia
Plan 1981-85 (compared with an actual growth in employment of 3.9% p.8. over
the decade of 1971-80). The global economic recession over the period 1981-
83, which also had its concomitant impact on the Malaysian economy, resuited
in a slow-down in the growth of both output and empLoyment; nevertheless,
employment grew overall by 2.9% p.a. The Governmenc, in its mid-term review
of the Fourth Malaysia Plan, has recognized that the original targets for
output and employment will not be met. However, on the basis of actual growth
in 1981-83 and revised projections for 1984-85, it expects that the total
growth in employment for all sectors of industry wiLl be about 760,000,
equivalent to an annual growth of 3.0X. Over the decade 1981-90, employment
is projected to increase by about 1.7 million, creating annual incremental
needs for technicians and skilled workers of the order of 5,500 and 35,000,
respectively. This requirement significantly exceeds the annual output of
existing training facilities.
19.       The Supply of Industrial Manpower.  The sources of industrial skill
and technician training are (a) polytechnics, which provide technician
training; (b) industrial training institutes (ITIs) and other skill training
institutes and centers, which prepare school leavers for industrial employment
and upgrade the skills of employed workers; (c) vocational secondary schools,
which provide introductory skills training and produce semi-skilled new job
seekers; and (d) in-plant training in industry. The polytechnics and
vocational secondary schools are the responsibility of the Technical and
Vocational Education Division (TAVED) of the Ministry of Education (MOE), and
the ITIs are under the Training Service Division of the Manpower Department of
the Ministry of Labor (MOL).
20.       Technician training is mainly provided in two polytechnics, Ungku
Omar (Ipoh) Polytechnic established in 1969, and Kuantan Polytechnic, which
opened in temporary accommodation in 19?7 and occupied its new building in
late 1983. Two new polytechnics are being constructed under the first
Industrial Training Project (Loan 2145-MA) at Batu Pahat and Alor Setar. The
total polytechnic enrollment in 1984 was about 4,400, mainly in certificate
courses of 2 1/4 year duration, arranged on a sandwich pattern including five
months of industrial placement. About 60% of the entrants are sponsored by
employers, mainly by government departments. There were over 25,000 qualified
applicants in 1984 for the 2,000 places. The output of the polytechnics in
1983/84 was about 1,300; in addition, about 1,000 technicians were estimated
to have graduated from other institutions. The full development of the
existing institutions, including the two new polytechnics at Batu Pahat and
Alor Setar, will provide an annual output by 1990 of about 3,500 technicans.



-7-
Thus, based on the revised projections of need indicated in paragraph 18,
there would be an annual shortfall of about 2,000 technicians in 1990.
21.       The annual output of new skilled and semi-skilled workers from
public training institutions in 1983/84 was estimated to be about 12,000. Of
these, about 7,000 were semi-skilled secondary vocational school graduates.
Only 1,500 completed training at the ITIs; the others were trained in centers
operated by Majlis Amanah Rakayat or by the Ministry of Youth, Culture and
Sports. Only about 100 existing workers were reported to have completed
skills upgrading. The annual output from existing sources, including three
new ITIs at Ipoh, Kuantan and Malacca, which are being built under the first
Industrial Training Project, is expected to increase to about 17,000 by
1990. Thus, based on the revised projections of need, there wouLd be an
annual shortfall of about 18,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers in 1990.
22.       The Government has completed the initial phase of a study of manu-
facturing industry, financed under the first project, to examine :raining
needs, cost-sharing and incentives and other mechanisms for improving the
participation of industry in training. The findings confirm the shortages in
the supply of trained manpower and indicate that present training in industry
is inadequate to provide the levels of practical knowledge and skills required
to facilitate high product quality, improve productivity and ensure efficient
use of plant and equipment. The study also confirms the need for the
expansion and development of higher levels of pre-employment training and
skills upgrading for existing workers. As a next phase of the study, further
feasibility and other studies have been planned, also to be financed under the
first project, covering (a) legislation to require employers to provide and
finance training, (b) establishment of Training Councils under a National
Board to coordinate the planning, funding and monitoring of training, and
(c) introduction of pilot schemes for supervisory and advanced skills
training. The possible introduction of fees for ITI training and an increase
in polytechnic fees will also be considered.
Shortcomings of the Present Industrial Manpower and Training System
23.       Supply of Trained Manpower.  The annual output from present training
facilities, and those being constructed under the first project, will fall
short of the estimated need for new trained manpower by about 2,000 technic-
ians and 18,000 skilled workers in 1990. These estimates excLude the need for
upgrading the skills and technicaL knowledge of existing workers. Deficien-
cies in the supply are compounded by the lack of training in technologies and
skills needed for the planned deveLopment of new process and manufacturing
industries, particularly in the ceramics, plastics, chemical, electrical,
electronics and fabricated metal products subsectors. Furthermore, training
facilities are not satisfactorily distributed across the country in relation
to the location of industry.
24.       Management of Training.  Both the polytechnic and ITI systems are
small and have not required elaborate arrangements for central coordination
and management. However, the implementation of the current investment program
to expand the polytechnics from two to seven and the ITIs from five to ten,
and their subsequent operation, wiLl require effective organization and



-8-
management. The programs of management development have started with
technical assistance and staff training under the first project with the aim
of establishing effective internal management structures for the polytechnics
and ITIs and strengthening the management capacity of both the TAVED of MOE
and the Training Service Division (TSD) of MOL. Within TAVED, a new
Development Unit is being formed, the Intake Unit is being strengthened to
deal with the central administration of polytechnic admissions, and the
PoLytechnic Unic is assuming a stronger policy-making role. Within MOL, the
reorganization and strengthening of the TSD of the Manpower Department,
provided under the first project, has not been fully implemented because of
the Government's policy of restricting the growth of public services staff;
the project would address this question (para. 37).
25.       Manpower Development Planning.  The agencies concerned with manpower
pLanning have limited capacity and lack coordination in their work. The
Government, in 1982/83, reviewed its arrangements for manpower planning and
has defined more cLearly the responsibilities of the agencies concerned. It
i9 taking steps to strengthen them and to improve the coordination of their
work. The main agencies are (i) the Research and Planning Division (RPD) of
the MOL (responsibLe for studies of private sector employment and labor
market); (ii) the Hanpower Planning Section (MPS) of the Public Services
Department (PSD) (responsible for manpower planning in the public sector); and
(iii) the Educational Planning and Research Division (EPRD) of the MOE
(responsible for planning in the formal education system). These agencies are
in need of strengthening through improvement in qualifications and experience
of their staff, strengthening of data handling, and improvements in design and
implementation of their planning systems.
Government Scrategy and the Bank's Role
26.       The Government's objectives are to expand and raise the quality of
skill and technician training to meet industrial manpower needs and to achieve
a balanced distribution of training opportunities ii relation to regional dis-
tribution of population and industry. Under the revised Fourth Malaysia Plan,
the Government has allocated 32Z of the total development expenditure on edu-
cation and training to the development of technical and vocational
education. The Government is also taking steps to strengthen the agencies
responsible for planning and management of manpower development and training.
27.       The Bank, through several projects, has been active in the develop-
ment of skilled worker and technician training in Malaysia. These projects
compLemented the Bank's support of the economy for accelerated industrial
growth. The establishment of a second polytechnic was financed under the
Third Education Project (Loan 974-MA). The capacity for skills training was
increased by the establishmenE of three new ITIs at Labuan, Kuala Trengganu
and Johor Bharu, raising the total to five, under the Fourth Education Project
(Loan 1329-MA). Pi major program of expansion and upgrading of training was
initiated with the first Industrial Training Project (Loan 2145-MA), which
provided for the design, construction and equipping of two new polytechnics
(at Alor Setar and Batu Pahat) and three new ITIs (at Ipoh, Kuantan and
Malacca), together with the design, site acquisition and site preparation for
three additional polytechnics and two ITIs. The project also included



-9-
provision for sizeable technical assistance and staff training programs. In
spite of a slow-down in public sector deveLopment in 1982-84, good progress
has been made with the implementation of the project. Construction of the two
polytechnics has begun and will start shortly for the three ITIs; all con-
struction is expected to be compLeted by December 1986. The technical
assistance and training programs are also under way. The Government, with the
assistance of consultants, has also started the studies of training in
manufacturing industry which are designed to lead to the adoption of policies
to improve industrial participation in training (para. 22). The designs for
the next three polytechnics and two ITIs are almost finished. All sites for
these institutions have been acquired and site preparation is well advanced.
Implementation of the project's ITI component, however, has been somewhat
slower than planned, mainly because the staff of the Development Unit of MOL
has nut been increased as planned.
28.       Four Bank education projects have been completed.  Overall, the
projects have been successfully implemented, and educational objectives have
been acbieved, but with delays. Problems with site acquisition and construc-
tion, which were the main causes of deLay in the case of the first four
projects, have been eliminated in subsequent projects by ensuring that project
sites are acquired at an early stage in project processing and by the employ-
ment of private architects in place of the Public Works Department staff.
These features are reflected in the proposed project. The Kuantan Polytechnic
was successfully established under the Third Education Project: follow-up
studies have shown that graduates have been readily absorbed in employment.
Experience with recruitment and training of staff for Kuantan Polytechnic has
been favorable and the turnover rate of teachers is low. Staff training
programs in the proposed project would buiLd on this experience.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Background
29.       The proposed project was prepared by the MOE, MOL, and the PSD with
the support of Bank staff. Appraisal began in April L983-pbut processing of
the project was postponed to enable further progress to be made in the
implementation of the first Industrial Training Project. A mission to
complete the appraisal visited Malaysia in October 1984. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. from April 22-24, 1985: the Malaysian delegation was
Led by Mr. Yahya Yaacob, Deputy Secretary, Finance Division, Malaysian
Treasury. Supplementary project data are supplied in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
30.       The project would assist the Government to continue with the
investment program in technician and skiLLed worker training started with the
support of the first project. Its objectives would be to (a) increase the
supply of technicians and skilled workers, with due regard to the regional
distribution of training facilities in relation to the distribution of popula-
tion and industry; (b) improve the quality and strengthen the management of
training; and (c) strengthen manpower development planning.



- 10 -
31.       The project would provide civil works and related professional
services, equipment and material., furniture, and technical assistance to:
(a) extend and upgrade technician training through the construction and
equipping of three polytechnica, at Kota Bharu, Kuching and Port
Dickson, to provide an annual output of about 2,200 technicians;
introduce new training programs; improve management of training and
upgrade teaching and management staff;
(b) extend and upgrade skilled worker training through the construction
and equipping of two ITIs, at Alor Setar and Kota Bharu, to provide
an annual output of about 1,300 skilled workers; introduce new
training programs; improve management of training and upgrade
training and management staff; and
(c) strengthen selected key agencies responsible for manpower
development planning.
(a) Technician Training
32.       Physical Development.  For the three polytechnics at Kota Bharu,
Kuching and Port Dickson, planning, design and site preparation is being
completed under the first project (para. 27). Each polytechnic would have the
capacity for a total enrollment of 1,500 equivalent full-time students,
including 1,200 in certificate courses of 2 1/4 years duration and the
equivalent of 300 in part-time specialist and diploma courses. The total
enrollment in these new polytechnics would increase to 4,500 by 1989 and, by
1991, the new polytechnics would contribute an estimated annual output of
2,200 to the overall annual output of about 6,400 technicians and equivalent
level business graduates.
33.       Course and Staff Development.  The three polytechnics would be
located in regions of existing and planned industrial development and courses
would be related to regional industrial needs, including new subjects and
specializations, e.g., agricultural engineering, plant engineering, highway
engineering, water engineering, timber technology, printing, and textiles. At
full development, the three new polytechnics would require an additional 450
teaching staff.  Teachers' salaries, although comparable with salaries of
engineers in other government departments, are not sufficiently attractive to
draw a significant number of experienced engineers from private industry to
polytechnic teaching. Hence, it would be necessary for the MOE to recruit
potential teachers from the graduates of secondary schools, sponsor them in
basic courses and provide further upgrading and experience. Senior staff
would be drawn from the existing polytechnics.  This is a satisfactory
approach. A schedule for the appointment of polytechnic teachers has been
agreed upon with the Government (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
project would support the expansion and upgrading of polytechnic staff by
including 65 man-years of fellowships for overseas training for about 50
existing staff in selected specialist fields of postgraduate training and
industrial experience, about 530 man-years of overseas fellowships for pre-
service degree training for about 130 new stafE and about 290 man-years of
fellowships for pre-service diploma and first degree training in Malaysia for



- 11 -
about 70 new staff. To assist in the development and initial implementation
of training in new technologies. and in the related in-service training of
staff, the project would provide 72 man-months foreign and 72 man-months local
specialist assistance.
34.       Management.  As the poLytechnic system grows, the management
structures of the polytechnics and the arrangements for polytechnic management
within the TAVED are evolving with the help of the technical assistance and
training program under the first project. The project would continue the
program of strengthening management of the polytechnic system by the provision
of 12 man-years of fellowships for management training overseas and 6 man-
years Eor local training for senior staff of the polytechnics and the TAVED.
(b) Skilled Worker Training
35.       PhysicaL Development.  For the two ITIs at Alor Setar and Kota
Bharu, designs and site preparation work are well advanced (para. 27). Each
of the new ITIs would have a capacity of about 500 training places. The
proposed project would provide civil works, including workshops. classrooms,
administration and communal buildings and staff and trainee housing, equip-
ment, furniture and professional services.
36.       Course Development.  The project would support the continued
development of new and upgraded training methods and materiaLs and the
development of training courses in new specialist skills and technologies
related to industrial needs in the regions in which the ITIs would be
located. To assist in the detailed planning and initial impLementation of
training modules required in new skills and technologies and to provide the
related in-service staff training, the project would provide about 216 man-
months of rechnical assistance from overseas training specialists.
37.       Staff and Management Development.  The project would provide
technical assistance and staff training for the management and staff
development necessary to establish effective training programs including the
promotion of, and support for, increased training by industry. The Training
Service Division of MOL would be reorganized into two units - a TechnicaL Unit
and an Operational Unit - and would delegate to the ITIs some responsibilities
for planning and development, including the development and upgrading of in-
*        plant industrial training.  To implement successfulLy the Second Industrial
Training Project, in parallel with the first project, adequate additional
senior staff would be required. The staffing of the Training Service Division
would, therefore, be increased from the present 8 to 18 by 1987; staffing for
each ITI would include at least 5 additional posts for development including
in-plant training development. The two new ITIs will require about 90 new
instructors, and, as for che poLytechnics (para. 33), they will have to be
recruited and trained. A schedule was agreed with the Government for the
appointment of the additional staff for the Training Service Division of MOL
and the ITIs (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). To support staff
development, the project would provide about 103 man-years of overseas
fellowships for specialist skilLs and management training for senior
instructors and other MOL staff and about 200 man-years of local training in
basic skills. The project would provide about 60 man-months of consultant



- 12 -
services from overseas specialists to assist in management and in the setting
up of effective industrial liaison and planning and development systems in the
ITIs.
(c) Manpower Development Planning
38.       Under the project, the capacities of the following agencies to carry
out manpower development planning would be improved and strengthened:
(i)   EPRD (MOE):  The project would finance 18 man-months of
specialist consultant services to provide advice and related in-
service training to EPRD, to establish the operating and data
management systems for the proposed MOE computer system. In
addition, 56 man-years of fellowships would be provided for
overseas training of EPRD staff. The project would also provide
for the purchase of books, periodicals and reproduction
equipment for the EPRD library/documentation center.
(ii)   RPD (MOL):  To improve the capacity of RPD to provide policy
advice on the private sector labor market, the project would
finance 24 man-months of specialist consuLtant services and 51
man-months of fellowships for training overseas, together with
supporting microcomputers and software.
(iii)   MPS (PSD):  To strengthen the capacity of the MPS to plan for
the overall requirements, supply and depLoyment of manpower in
che public services sector, the project would provide for 18
man-months of consultant services and 68 man-months of
fellowships for training and internship assignments overseas for
MPS staff, together with supporcing microcomputers and related
equipment and software.
Project Implementation
39.       The project would be managed as follows:  (a) the technician
training component by the existing Development and Supplies Division of HOE in
coordination with the TAVED; (b) the skilled worker training component by the
Development Unit of the MOL Hanpower Department; and (c) the planning compo-
nent by the three divisions or sections directly involved. The Development
and Supplies Division of MOE and the Development Unit of MOL have been                    0
responsible for the management and implementation of the first project, and
coordination of project management between these two ministries without a
separate coordinating entity has noc posed any difficulty for the Bank. With
regard to the proposed planning component, EPRD would be assisted by the
DeveLopment and Supplies Division of MOE and RPD by the Development Unit of
M,.., in respect of the procurement of equipment, materials, consultants and
training and of the maintenance of accounts for the project activities. The
delay in increasing technical staff of the Development Unit of the HOL by
three additional posts has been a major factor in delay in implementation of
the MOL component of the first project. The strengthened staffing, together
with the provision of technical assistance to support the Unit, particularly
for procurement of goods and services, is now essential to ensure timely and



- 13 -
effective implementation of the ITI component of this project. The Government
has agreed to fill the posts; the appointment of the three staff would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
40.       The project is poised for implementation.  It would be implemented
over a five-year period from mid-1985 to mid-1990. Site works and
infrastructure are completed for the Kuching PoLytechnic site and expected to
be completed for Kota Bharu Polytechnic by May 1985. Tendering for their
construction has commenced and construction is planned to start in mid-1985;
contractors have already been prequalified.  The site works for Port Dickson
Polytechnic will be combined with construction in a single contract to be
tendered in early 1986. Detailed design of the two ITIs at Alor Setar and
Kota Bharu has been completed. Tenders for construction and site works will
be invited in Ma- 1985 and construction is planned to start in mid-1985.
Master equipment Lists have been agreed upon for the main subjects.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
41.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$121.0 million
equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of US$76.4 million, or 631
of total costs. Construction costs are based on recent tender prices for the
two polytechnics being established under the first project and for Kuching
Polytechnic and on quantity surveyors' estimates of costs for the ITIs. The
estimated equipment costs are based on master lists and the recent cost of
polytechnic and ITI equipment. Furniture costs are estimated at about 15Z of
construction costs. The unit areas and costs for the project institutions are
in line with recent Bank median values for comparable facilities. Technical
assistance and training fellowship costs are estimated on the basis of
recently negotiated contracts under the first project. Customs duties and
taxes on building materials are estimated to amount to about 1.7% of total
project costs. Equipment and teaching materials imported under the project
would be exempt from duties and taxes. Physical contingencies of 10Z have
been allowed for construction, furniture, equipment and materials and
professional services and 52 for technical assistance. Price contingencies,
which would be equivalent to about 15% of base costs, plus physical
contingencies are calcuLated in accordance with the implementation schedule
and the following estimates of average annual price increases: local and
foreign - 5.0Z for 1985, 7.5Z for 1986, and 8.0% for 1987 to 1990.
42.       The Canadian Government, acting through the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), intends to make a grant of about Canadian $4
million (US$3.1 million) to finance part of the technical assistance and staff
training for the skilled worker training component. The memorandum of
understanding is expected to be signed in early July 1985 and the grant wiLl
be effective as soon as the Bank loan becomes effective. The plan of
operation for this technical assistance has been agreed upon between the Bank,
CIDA and the Government. The proposed Bank loan of US$73.3 million would
equaL the balance of the foreign exchange component and would finance 61% of
the total project costs, excLuding duties and taxes.



- 14 -
43.       The estimated incrementaL annual recurrent cost of the proposed
project, when all institutions are operating at full capacity, is about US$4.5
million for the technician traiaing component and about US$1.0 million for the
skilled worker training component (both at 1984 prices). These costs would
represent about 0.25X of the MOE operating budget and 2.3X of MOL's in 1990,
respectively, assuming these budgets will grow at about 5Z p.a.
Procurement
44.       Civil works contracts of more than US$2.5 million would be awarded
on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.  Civil works contracts
for less than US$2.5 million would be awarded on che basis of competitive
bidding advertised locaLly, in accordance with government procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Equipment and furniture would be grouped to the
extent possible into bid packages to facilitate bulk procurement. Packages
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more (estimated total value US$30.0 million)
would be awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. In
the comparison of bids for equipment and furniture, local manufacturers would
be extended a margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f. costs of competing
imports or the actual customs duties, whichever is lower. Equipment and
furniture packages estimated to cost less than US$200,000 (estimated total
value US$16.3 million), and miscellaneous items which are not expected to
interest foreign suppliers, would be awarded in accordance with government
procurement practices which are acceptable to the Bank. Prior Bank review of
bidding documents and proposed contract awards would be done for all contracts
for civil works, equipment and furniture to be awarded on the basis of ICB,
estimated to cost a total of about US$80.0 million incLuding contingencies
(66Z of the total value). The following table provides a breakdown of project
expenditure by procurement category:
PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US5 million)
Total cost
including
Category of expenditure                    ICB       LCB    Other  contingencies
Civil works                              49.2        2.5        -       51.7
(17.3)     (0.9)      -       (18.2)
Equipment, furniture and materials        30.0      13.0       5.5      48.5
(24.4)     (9.1)    (3.9)    (37.4)
Technical assistance and training           -         -       20.8      20.8
_         -     (17.7)    (17.7)
Total                               79.2       15.5     26.3      121.0
(41.7)    (10.0)   (21.6)    (73.3)
Note:  Values in parentheses refer co estimated loan allocatioas.



- 15 -
45.       Under the first Industrial Training Project, major technical
assistance and staff training contracts were signed with consultants in
accordance with 3ank guidelines. Similarly, a series of contracts would be
arranged for the technical assistance and overseas training under this
project. Agreement was reached with the Covernment on a schedule for
engagement of consultants and the implementation of staff training programs in
conformity with agreed criteria for the selection of staff for fellowships
(Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
46.       The proposed loan of US$73.3 million would be disbursed over a
period of six years. The Closing Date would be June 30, 1991. Due to the
advanced state of project preparation, it is assumed that the loan disburse-
ments under this project would proceed faster than a profiLe based on the
average of past education projects in the AEP Region. Disbursements would be
made on the basis of: (a) 35% of the cost of civil works and related profess-
ional services; (b) 100Z of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment, furniture
and materials, 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipmenc,
furniture and materials, 60% of the cost of imported equipment, furniture and
materials procured locally; and (c) 100% of the cost of consultant services
and fellowships. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications would be
aggregated in amounts of US$100,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank
for disbursement. Disbursements for miscellaneous equipment and furniture
items, books, computer software and other instructional materials and local
fellowships would be based on statements of expenditure. Supporting documents
would be retained by the project units and made available for review by Bank
staff. All other disbursements would be made against full documentation. In
view of the satisfactory budgetary procedures and financing for earlier
education -d training projects, it was agreed to accept the Government's
preference not to establish a special account and matching operating account
before it has weighed the advantages and disadvantages in more detail.
Reporting and Audit
47.       Project accounts wouLd be maintained by the MOE Development and
Supplies Division, by the MOL Development Unit and, in respect of the MPS
planning subcomponent, by the Administrative Division of the PSD. The units
concerned would submit to the Bank, within six months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year, statements reflecting the financial performance and
position of the project together with independent auditors' reports, including
a separate audit of accounts relating to disbursement against statements of
expenditure. Six months after the Closing Date, the MOE Development and
Supplies Division would submit to the Bank a project completion report
covering all project components.
Benefits and Risks
48.       The main benefits of the project would be: (a) an increased and
improved geographic distribution in the training capacity and supply of
suitably qualified technicians and skilled workers for industry; (b) improved



- 16 -
management capacity of the polytechnics and ITIs; and (c) strengthened
capacity for planning of human resource development. By 1991, t'.e output from
the three polytechnics would be about 2,100 technicians annually, representing
about 33X of the total annual supply. The two ITIs would contribute about
1,300 to the total annual output of the ITI system of about 7,200 skilled
workers, i.e., about 202 of that output. These increases would contribute
substantially to alleviating one of the major constraints to the country's
industrial development. The project would also increase and improve the
regional opportunities for further education and training for secondary school
leavers. The assistance to agencies responsible for manpower deveLopment
planning in the public and private sectors would result in the availability of
improved labor market and empLoyment information as a basis for poLicy
decisions relating to the utiLization and supply of manpower.
49.       The main risk to the timely achievement of the anticipated benefits
is MOL's capacity to implement the ITI component on schedule. This has caused
delay in the implementation of past projects. The requirement for strength-
ening the staff of the MOL Development Unit, and the technical assistance
under the proposed project, are designed to minimize that risk (para. 39).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Malaysia and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
51.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
would be the appointment of additional staff to the project unit in the
Ministry of Labor (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMEUDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 7, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANN  I
- 17 -                             Page 1 lof 5
NIAAISIA              - SOCIAL IMICATO  DATA 
MALAYSIA                           RESRUZ WM  (W1CSTS  AVMAS) /a
MOST             (STRft311) /b
:Nn:/            oIDW  zuamn          MID    ma
igsth.     z77veb  5y=4.lb        ASIA & PAIFIC         LAT. mICI   CA
13k(15SDQ . -)
TOAL                               329.8      329.8    329.6
AGRICULTURAL                       34.6       39.8      43.4
mw in ann CM)                        240.0       60.0  uwo.o a)           1091.2                  21C..6
-N   m_mwrln u  cSuTZ
(ziLamS Of OIL EUIALE)            616.0      45S.0    629.0              47.3                   995.5
uunm   -  TAL S       DTISSICS
POPLATIUI.XED-iEAR (TUSAIDS)     5205.0   1OB63.0  1453.0
u   POPULAIO  (Z OF TOTAL)         25.2       27.0      30.2             34.7                    44.5
POPuLATIOn nrtrCrTIo
PoPnATIOUI IN EA 2000 (aL)                           20.5
STATIOAR POPATION (ILL)                               33.0
POPUIATION IN T                                        1.
PoPUlATION orsIy
PER sQ. Km.                      24.9        32.9     43.1            261.9                    35.7
PER SQ. In. AGRI. LAND          235.5       273.2    325.5           1735.1                    92.4
POPULATION AGE STRUXTURE (C)
0-14 nRs                         45.1       41.6     39.b              39.0                   39.9
15-64 IRS                        51.2       51.5      56.8             57.4                    56.0
65 AND-ABOE                       3.6        3.1       3.5              3.3                     4.1
POPUlTION GRCOWT RATE (C)
TOTAL                             2.7        2.6       2.4              2.3                     2.4
URW                               4.9         3.5      3.4              4.3                     3.b
CRWDE URTh RATE (PER THOUS)        44.3       35.7      29.1             30.1                    31.3
CRUE MEATH RATE (PER TUOUS)        14.9        9.2      6.4               9.5                     3.1
CROSS REPRODClON RATE              3.4        2.6       1.7              2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLAIIG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUL (TWOS)             -        5640     31.1 
USERS   ar Of HARRIED  MEN)        *         33.0 I                    52.7                    40.3
FOD AM reT 
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-1OO)                      85.0       99.0    150.0             123.0                   114.3
PER CAr SUPPLr OF
CALORIES EX OF REQUIRDWITS)      107.0      114.0    121.0            114.4                   110.6
PROTEIS (GRAMS PER DAT)          49.0       52.0      60.0             57.0                    67.3
OF WHlCH ANDIAL AMD PULSE       17.0       16.0     23.0 Id           14.1                   34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         7.5        3.6       1.7              7.2                     5.7
LUVE EXPECT. AT 1313F (YEARS)      53.9       61.2     66.7              60.4                    64.7
I3FArT HURT. RATE (PER THO)        72.4       45.6     29.3             46.3                     60.6
ACCESS TO SAfE ATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                                       1290      62.0 /a          37.0                    65.4
uRN                                 .       1000      93.0 .           54.8                    78.1
RURAL                               .        1.0      49 0 7;          26.4                    46.2
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL
(T OF POPULATION)
WTAL                               ..        59.0     60.0 If          41.3                    52.9
URBAN                                       100.0    100.0 if          47.4                    47.0
RUML                                ..       43.0     43.0 7           33.3                    24.5
POPULATION PE PHYSICIAN          7060.0     4310.0   7910.0 Id         7749.4                  1917.7
POP. PFR NURSING PERSON          iWO.O       1120.0    940.0 7Ti       2440.4                   815.8
PoP. PER HOSPITAL DED
TOTML                            270.0      290.0    300.0 If        104.2                    367.2
BUAN                             110.0       40.0          -           5l.2                   411.5
RURAL                           5710.0     1760.0      ..            2594.6                  2634.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..       16.4      17.2 If          27.0                    27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                               .         5.6 I
URBAN                               .          -1
RURAL                              ..         5.         --
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOUS/RDG
ToTAL                                        2.6 1
URUAN                              ..        2.3        .
RURAL                              ..        2.8 
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..       43.4I      *
URUA                               ..       84.7 I
RURAL                              ..        30.1 j
a)   $1870  in  1983



'<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
''                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
-     18  -566   g
mastic  mmo0k  UTD ux  Zama -                                      gou
lMAts  TOTL                         36.0       87.0      g.o0              102.0                    105.6
NM                      L08.0 L.0            94.0              105.9                    106.3
1U3                      83.0        64.0     91.0               36.2                    104.5
31001063?: TOTAL                   19.0        34.0      55.0              46.0                      43.2
HALE                     35.0        40.0     56.0               48.7                     42.3
IUNZ                     13.0        28.0     53.0               43.1                     44.5
VOCATIONAL CZ0o  SICO^U)               4.6        2.,       1.7               17.5                     33.6
PUlh-TZAC    Ao
MUSIC                               28.0       31.0      26.0               31.8                     30.1
Sl00UWtT                           25.0        26.0      23.0               23.5                     16.8
ADWLT LIUTACT  AZ OI)                 52.6 /h    56.5      60.0               72.9                     73.5
rA85103 CAR5/THOUBAND POP            11.8        21.9      42.8 L            10.1                       6.0
Sa10o 3KCRIVZISJIUOSlfD Po0           36.9       39.6    164.2               113.6                    225.6
TV       8            OP               3.24j    12.0       72.4               50.1                    107.2
znTsr) cnCazou
PM 7OOSI FOIOLATXON                 60.0       72.1    132.6 h              53.9                     63.5
CIUM  ANNAL ATUOANCZJCAPITA          13.0         9.4       2.6 _              3.4                      2.8
TOTAL 10  3o03 (amt    )            2800.0     3666.0   5168.0
PEKALE (CItCENT)                   27.2        31.4      31.5               33.5                     23.1
ADXLTUUZ (PERCENT)                  63.0        56.0     50.0               52.2                     31.5
1DESTI (PERCENT)                   12.0        14.0      16.0               17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RA  (PERCENT)
TOMm                                34.1       33.8      35.6               38.7                     32.2
PM"                                 U.8        45.7      48.5               50.9                     49.3
FE9AL                               18.9       21.5      u2.5               26.6                     15.2
ECIOMC DEPEUDEOT RATIO                 1.4        1.4       1.2                1.1                      1.4
Xe ozsmE
inc r arv arun
REEIED at
HIdES?   w Or I1USI0O               34.0       27.0        ..              22.2
BlUEST  or U 8053mm                61.2        56.6        ..  .6.0
LOGEST 20 OF I0 OOLDS                3.2        3.3        ..                6.4
LOGE  4as09 o30033301D              9.6        10.6        ..               15.5
mC =U a
ESTDMSE A380L313 FOUT?  EW
LIVE. CUS PER 0*11Th
US3                                  ..       123.6    314.4               18.6                     286.2
RUL                                   ..      111.6    289.2               152.0                    184.0
ESTIAZ  DAMPOET
LuM  (USI PE CAPI)
U                                     ..         ..        ..              177.9                    522.8
RURL                                  ..         ..        ..             164.6                     372.4
nTL          PMP. _11  asoum
POVMEY INCOS LEVEL (2)
IIuU                                  ..       21.3      12.6              23.4
uns                                  ,.       53.7       37.7              37.7
OT AVAILAZZ
NOT APPLICASLE
MOTESg
la  The grasp averag  for ach Indicator ar  papulation-aIgbutd aritmAtic mama. Coverae of countrie  ami    te
isdlcator dIr. an availablity of data and Is -t  tdfor.
7b   Guler othermla. noted. -Data for 196r refer tO ay yer betwue  1959 nd 1961; late for 197r betean 1969 ad
1971; and dats for 'ut RecDt EetIatC- between 1980 md 1982.
Ic  1974; /d 1977; /a 1976; /f 1975; LL Peulnau1r Malaysia;  lb 1962; IA 1978; a 1964; Lk 1979.
J.N  1984



ANNEX I
-19-                                                                                    3 of 5
Ea.-,   Sataag   at. 4a-e.- *tdaaa  tre   a.....  gteaaLp 3a10  at  at a.b.=aaa  tal attibia. ta .-id   t..- ba, ..Ae   aa   eta. -,   a  b. baeaaaet 1att
Uatata   y-a_    at .  tvabI da attad. ai_d_   d""'ata   -d  aala   .    tditva                          a l.. I.   gtel-atia  aba, l.    lbM  dAt.a.   .tv.                   e.tal a
ta-1aib   ai...           'taa    Ue. W  S      n.-.    a5I  -baaaa*  IIn.e. U.j.  dtfta.a ,    -a...taa                     ...
It. .te..a-           1.iS  -b  aa   a.aaaaa  e a           . tea.   Uba-  a..a Ic aS  133 a     atnaty   t        ab        . hiba  ant          en.a.  a.aaa                         lt
tait aaay dUna   '-   nab~ ta-a   alt taaa                  tp    a.  ',edal. ta-   an   .b Utica ta   Weadl. *t.a    tac. A            . taaaa   .1a ta-naat
.aaIleI  e at.tagaa.aa- -t   adtttv  a  aaabt.           1%..      ai   .aa        aaataltd  d  I.asaragat  .ata           t aa   tai-aa  at   a  an-`,.    at.-  a       " b.
ma---I.- ......a-                                             .                                                         '!!it eL A, . --t-.aata-ta   dId d  by L-aa   4aata
tue '    aad  CUtiim dU.                                                                                   aate.a.ta.a.   .                    .atet.td  atati                 - ta ..eln tittt
-I..  .1.       _101                          Iar..  aa  aaai  iadd      l.r   aaateaaa a  b-                            I.aa   baa
-                          t~~~~~~IA . a   I.tt!5l-Uttaata    .tUeaa   .rta   na.piaavtai  I. 1                                                           pUb.tad raat             at.    s*aIatiaa S'luerati.a
iiliiaadbaanaaaaaaaa  taatd  -t-rd  fat-Caaeaat~;  tadtt                  -ttt it-ttaaaltl.iUttall  t.  UtbtttnUt-tallaaataUttI-
eat..tira   tad  taj  teUa                                                   y atittat-  ~tatatU.  qaagaittnaaa atUtdta -                    aeaaUit  a.adia
ta.ta-rtala  t'dS  b    Lb        a C   y La                     d     -     .
*                        ainbxtttlaI.:- tAt a.tt"
?Ua.t 'attalia-. ad-avaar ataaaaaaaal - a.  t itt. I~*iba~  tba   tad tet  aalILti
eLS.ra   t-   tia-bt   ara-ta  b-aaaCa_dt    a-t .  a-b. ad aUra
tata aala   tt  :.a,-ta*?   aaat -aaa-.t  at... aa tae.  aaa-tatl.a       -    aaaaeatda-.aa.a a  a raat  t -I t-,-             t   a.-ba.  avlaa I-ta,
aaa'r.a  naattaa   -   aaat a...a-aaar-a   UatrUbt a  atday               ta  tata   at-aaaa.              .d p r  - iada. - vII-     -    atb  tt.ddt
-1v-a..an     lea. aa- :a    aaea,ab    aaaaadta  aa   attaaaaa
~!CIiaifrLrraa~-at..UU                                        t.tata a..a .  e.aaaa3 a-a na - aaaat  eb.at. tad yaat ta.raga ,
t~aalaattaaa:.tt.   a-rva   aaataaU  a..tattUa  a.  aa-d -  Cie           a  ra-       aa 'n  a at  aaUa   -d  aaa  aaaald -anatSn
:iiU~Iii~by  t-  -aa~atattbaa .aaatt  a-  taatet,                          aatt-ta.'naat  aai.   .ataala  ..ta. ---ar-a.   arI-rnaa
tralaatataaa raaaaaa  tat aaaaattta  vt.. a-rata .a  aba.  a-aa--ara-tLra'a
l.-I    ata    tt  'aaa.a      at,a-aaaaa   ea       aat~U        ae.aeaaaa-raaa  aaaea.  baetgl                                                ta      ta.a7rra 
-aant  taea ta           -aaaaaa   a    aaat   ,                   ,aaa-ta                                    ta -I.a.....  w  nt   ta.d .t.nla    a   a-adtm
taI   taa -r  taaladava  at-agavaad .bt  aa.aat ea  aratta.       ara t--t  -t  1'.aaatab  al..a  aal  - -aaeaaaar 4   atta
taaa  bana?ieaa-a-aat   t.n..-d.t artdaaaaa ant  aaa             ain.  ava-aat-atar.aatat -a..ata'tttatartda  aa tI    at-   b-t
aaaa'adaya.a ra-alt. a        aa.atta.LW       abt    rataLI._ Lavaatatt.ba-taa    .-daaaa    ata-tat-vaaaia    a
a-I  at     aby Iaaaaara   ats-  -ar-a-lUa                    pi,tta .1aa.at  ta-    t.avaaat   aaaaiaa. ttaatt-taaaadtt   Uta



-2
OWN mn r  "3 e 
n s  _| _b _^ B)~Lat 
6 Xla      S                1961-70       1971-7&        19       IM        1979       I.        I       9. l62
MP at hellat Priem                27.55e        100.0          6.1           7.3          7.5      5.5       9.2      *a        7.3      5.4       2.8
roan  DgmaUae zweante              9,177        32.5           8.7           9.8         22.4      0.1      12.3     13.8      24.0     13.9      0.5
cram NoUaaulll6.2&                               22.a           *             a 
M"utt  of 0usdm a                 15.U27         57.5          6.0           3.0     *     .2      7.6      16.9      5.3      1l.0      9.2      12.0
Imprt.                            17,151         62.3          2.3           7.3         15.3     12.       23.1     15.1      3.6      11.1      9.9
or. lASM           AND
p1am    mrlz  IN 196 /a
AIrlUdnre                        3,02     n.4             1.3  26.5             1,3"        61.5
*DIutry                          4,109    50.4            IJ   25.0             3,161      121.5
351,10.                          6.no     47.2           2.0  23.5              2.19       122.3
tw/gmrmm                  13_329   100.0           .2t  100.0             2.602      100.0
Ounrul Co__en
_____       1971-73    197640    - 131    1962    1963
-srInt Eacetp                        1S8,85        20.6       24.4     28.2    27.3    27.2
-ermut Vz1 Utnwaa                    15.954        24.9       30.5     24.4    26.0    23.6
-Irut surpl_u                        2,431          0.1        1.2      3.6      1.3      3.6
Dnroct DUuwlespNt CnPadItun          5.Z16          5.1        7.3      15.0    11.6      7.7
Mt L.ndMI                            3.723          3.0        3.4      4.1      6.7      5.5
Foraig *or?rowin  (nut)              4.267          2.1        1.3      5.2      7.6      6.4
313!. CREW AN PuIrS
1972     1974      1975     1976     1977      1978     1979      1960     1961      1932     1913
(Winlion Ns e.tust..m GM period)
MonaY -ad Q   _Ul-d            7.552    6,714    10.001    12.771   14,861    17.417   21.616   27.652   32.371   37,648  32.926
Ban  Crdit to Puble
sector ret                     566      959    1.313       822    1.213    1.017       -742      549    2,92      3,982    J.38
1md Cr.ast to Prlwt*
soccor                       4,53    5.275    6.077    7.471    3.971    11.3I4    14.962   20.936   25.713   29,91S   35.567
Clereutng. or lofts Winb.s)
3ba - Qnsei-?bn.y
- S of orI                    40.3     33.1      44.6     45.5      46.0     46.1      47.9     53.3      57.7     61.5      59.2
>__r  1im Indu
(190 - 100)                   63.2     69.3      82.0     85.7      37.9     92.0      96.5    300.0    109.7    116.1    120.3
tAmml Pinintg.
Oianu.m Lu binut
Price 206.                    10.4      17.4      *.5      2.6       4.7      4.9       3.6      6.7       9.7      5.6       3.6
k  Credit to Puble
Sucewr (Cas                   31.0     69.4      36.9    -37.4      67.6    -16.2         a        *    317.5      73.7    -14.9
-   CruiLt co Pvate dSctor    5Z.2       1.2       1.1      22.9     20.1      32.0      26.3     39.7     22.8      16.3     19.0
not applicable.
nocu: All coaYurEsoou to daU.rs In this table ar* NC th  svurmsu uzchaqu ratc pravulllng drln  thu puriod ewrd z
Septmb   19
A-,;.



- 21 -
ANiE  I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PATMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1982       1983      1984                    MERCRANDISE EXPORTS (1984)
-     (USC Million)                                          US$ million       X
Exports f.o.b.                 11,952    13,863    16,250          Rubber                         1,565        9.6
Imports f.o.b.                 12,464    13,160    14,233          Timber                         1,539        9.5
Nonfactor Services (net)       -1,616    -3,027    -2,177          Petroleum                      3,729       23.0
Pesource rap (deficit   -)  -2,218    -1,324          -160         Tin                              479        3.0
Factor Services (net)            -958    -1,548    -2,042          Palm o0l                       2,268       14.0
Net Transfers                     -33        -22       -22         All Other Goods                6.670       40.9
Balance On Current Account
(deficit - -)                -3,119    -2,894    -2,224                Total                  16,250       100.0
Mirect Foreign Investment       1,256      1,206       898
Net MLT Borrowing /a            2,597      2,133     2,063         EERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1984
Disbursements                   2,838      2,391     2,617
Amortization                      241        258        554                                                 ss$ Mln
Subtotal                     3,853      3,339     2,961         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed            11,872
Nonguaranteed Private Debt                3,933
Otter Items n.e.l.               -931       -396      -657         Total Outstanding & Disbursed            15,805
Increase In Reserves (-)          197        -49       -80
International Reserves
(end year)                  4,021     4,102      4,109        DeBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 /b
2
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed               7.9
Imports                                        *         *         Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  4.0
Exports                             *t                   *         Total Outstanding & Disbursed              11.9
Of which:  Crude Petroleum   3,288       3,393     3,729
IBfRDIIDA LENDING (SEPvnIrP 30. 1984)
(USS mdinon)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Average rate during period:                                        Outstanding & Disbursed                   733.6
Undisbursed                               561.9
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           1,298.5
M}  per US$            USS per M$
1974                     2.41                  0.41
1975                     2.40                  0.42
1976                     2.54                  0.39
1977                     2.46                  0.41
1978                     2.32                  0.43
1979                     2.19                  0.46
1980                     2.18                  0.46
1981                     2.30                  0.43
1982                     2.34                  0.43
1983                     2.32                  0.43
1984                     2.34                  0.43
* not available.
/a Public/publicly guaranteed debt only.
Ti Interest and asortization payments as a proportion of total earnings from exports of goods and services.
April 1985



-22-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BAW. LOANS /a
As of March 31, 1985
Amount in US$ million
Loan                                                                   (less cancellations)
no.    Year       Borrower                 Purpose                    Bank      Undisbursed
Forty loans fully disbursed                                              784.58
1115    1975   Malaysia              Agri. Research & Extension           20.50       0.19
1376    1977   Malaysia              Highway (III)                       35.00        5.79
1444    1977   Malaysia              Nat'l Small-Scale Irrigation         39.00       2.76
1493    1978   Malaysia              National Extension                   19.00       6.30
1590    1978   Malaysia              FELDA VI Land Settlement             28.00       6.25
1608    1978   Malaysia              Population II                        17.00      11.60
1632    1978   Malaysia              Krian-Sungei Manik Agri. Dev.        26.50       1.32
1657    1979   Malaysia              Education (v)                        38.00       0.48
1717    1979   Malaysia              Muda II Irrigation                   31.00      12.44
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (IK)                            50.00      11.02
1899    1980   Malaysia              Kelantan Land Scheme Rehab.          25.00      21.34
1957    1981   Malaysia              Rompin-Endau Area Dev.              40.00       26.10
1960    1981   Malaysia              Trans-Perak Area Dev.                50.00      40.37
2013    1981   Malaysia              FELCRA I                             37.00      25.67
2145    1982   Malaysia              Industrial Training (Educ VI)        40.60      36.89
2146    1982   Nat'l Elec. Board    Rural Electrification (Power X)    86.30         70.50
2147    1982   Malaysia              Malacca Agri. Development            25.40      20.68
2220    1983   Malaysia              Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    56.90        49.12
2291    1983   Malaysia              Sabah-Sarawak Road                   86.22      86.00
2438    1984   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (XI)                            70.00      69.83
Total Loan (less cancellation)                                1,606.00
of which has been repaid                                      298.77
Total now outstanding                                         1,307.23
Amount sold                     43.89
of which has been repaid                                       43.89
Total loans now held by Bank /b                               1,263.34
Total undisbursed                                                           504.65
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  The Board of Executive Directors approved the Small-Scale Enterprise Project,
Loan 2471-MA, on October 16, 1984. It was signed on January 11, 1985, and became
effective on April 16, 1985.



- 23 -
ANNE II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMNT OF IFC INVESTMENT
As of March 31, 1985
Amount ln
Type of            US$ million
Year             Obligor                   business      Loan   Equity  Total
1964-74   Malysian Industrial Devel-       Financing         -    1.94    1.94
opment Finance Ltd. (MIDF)
1985      SEAVI-M&                         Money and         -    1.00    1.00
Capital Mkt.
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.                Cement         1.28    0.28    1.56
196o-69   Malayawata Steel Ltd.            Steel          2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.  lextiles         1.25    0.25    1.50
1985      Pacific Hardwoods                Pulp and       9.97    1.53   11.50
Paper Prod.
Total Gross Commitment                         1A.95    6.24   21.19
Less: repayments, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off               4.98    3.71    8.69
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               9.97    2.53   12.50
T                  Total Undisbursed                                9.97    0.41   10.38
.0



- 24 -                           Annex III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:           6 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:         MOE, MOL and PSD
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:              March 1983
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:      April 1983.  It was sub-
sequently agreed to
defer further project
processing until more
progress had been made
with the implementation
of the first Industrial
Training Project (Loan
2145-HA).
(e) Date of departure of post-appraisal mission:October 1984
(f) Date of completion of negotiations:           April 24, 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:               September 24, 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The appointment of staff to three vacant posts for the MOL
Development Unit would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan
(para. 39);
(b)  Agreement has been reached with the Government on schedules for
implementation of the following:
(i)  appointment of staff to the polytechnics (para. 33);
(ii)  appointment of staff to the TSD of MOL and ITIs (para. 37);
(iii)  engagement of consultants (para. 45); and
(iv) staff training programs, adopting agreed criteria for selection
of staff for the award of fellowships (para. 45).



IBRD 1871p
wr~ ~~~~~i                                   iir                       ld -AV i
lb            -9                                                     MALAYSIA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
.          P 1} :,'+       T H A  I L A  ND D
'us                                                                                 A i     --* asmawaa ins e M DfT,|=Ssufn
*e           9A                                                     -me                 ____ ' *
r~51J   A) r                                                         '           
.--'.7                  LUUm                 _____--      AT   R
*                                                        , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---INTERNATIiNAL UNAR,U
'~~~~~ ~  TMnprql1p                              K r_____________
L           *                                        LU
-  a ,*   U    U-6                         ....
T >_.1  >t\                             I\\ K      AN      AJ-
-__ E I C          rA'- ,  Ai'
A   K ~ ~~f 
VA _d-                                                          \Ml rRvcG    IVU 
'-\-#S-_-- o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~s   - - Af 'So 
0
. aj  _|t tlCHE.)  i               .--  e~~Ab                               Kum ~< X   
_   kX N%b O  :E,Th|.                                                                                                  3 |-r; 1q  
FEBRUARYE198S
~~~~0*  s~ ~ ~~~~~~~
VI.-I.   A  Y   s                                                               Akw1¶nv 
AC  ~          INDONESIA»SGAOE
I  ~~ON  E\ S  I A                            19 r  )     i
FEBRUARY 1965






