Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6180 
Operation Name 
BR-Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Urban and Housing Development 
Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Public administration- Other social services (30%);Sub-national 
government administration (40%);Flood protection (30%) 
Project ID 
P122391 
Borrower(s) 
State of Rio de Janeiro 
Implementing Agency 
Secretariat of Finance, Secretariat of Public Works, Secretariat of 
Social Action and Human Rights 
Date PID Prepared 
October 10, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 30, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 24, 2011 
1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The state of Rio de Janeiro (RJ) is the third largest in Brazil and the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region 
(
Região Metropolitana de Rio de Janeiro
,
RMRJ)
,
with a population of 12 million, is the nation’s 
second largest metropolitan area. As the historical capital and a major tourism destination, the RMRJ 
has special significance for Brazil. The RMRJ’s economy and urban growth have suffered considerably 
since the 1970s as a result of the relocation of the capital to Brasilia, as well as industrial restructuring, 
and social problems (such as crime and violence) among other issues. Rio’s share of the country’s 
population decreased from 7.9 percent in 1970 to 6.8 percent in 2001, while its share of the country’s 
GDP declined from 14.8 to 8.1 percent during the same period. However, growth has recovered 
significantly in recent years, and the RMRJ has entered into a new era of development, supported by 
new industrial poles (petrochemicals, metallurgical, port, logistics, and creative industries) and the 
opportunities offered by being the host city of mega-events such as the 2016 Summer Olympic Games 
as well as the 2014 World Cup. 
Proactive urban and housing development strategies and policies are urgently needed to ensure that the 
envisioned growth will lead to the reemergence of a competitive and sustainable metropolitan region 
that offers a high quality of life as well as equitable access to opportunities and services. This is in 
contrast to the earlier boom period (such as the 1960s and 1970s), which were accompanied by the 
largest growth rate in informal settlements (
favelas
)
and the deterioration of old industrial 
neighborhoods. Of particular concern is that future growth will be taking place under constrained 
territorial conditions characterized by a fragile environment and high vulnerability to natural disasters 
such as flooding and landslides. The State Government of Rio de Janeiro (GORJ) has recognized the 
severity of the challenge, and is undertaking actions to address them proactively. These are the policy 
areas that the proposed operation supports.  
Page  2
The GORJ has launched a comprehensive reform program to improve its effectiveness and efficiency in 
the provision of public services. Recognizing the changing and growing demand for quality and cost 
effective public sector services, the state of Rio de Janeiro has progressively shifted from a model of 
bureaucratic routines to a results-oriented focus. To this end, in 2007 the government launched an 
unprecedented strategic plan to set goals and objectives. 
 
The proposed operation is the second DPL for the state of Rio de Janeiro, following the successful 
implementation of a DPL (P117244) approved in December 2009. As was the case of the first DPL, this 
operation is closely linked to the proposed Technical Assistance Loan (TAL), which is now under 
preparation and would enable continued Bank technical support to the state in the policy areas included 
in the DPL. The proposed operation and associated Bank support meet the criteria for engagement with 
sub-
national governments as agreed under the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 
2008-2011 (Report No. 42677-BR) discussed by the Executive Directors on May 1, 2008 and the 
Progress Report (Report No. 53356-BR) discussed by the Executive Directors on April 20, 2010. As 
specified in the CPS, the level of Bank lending must be consistent with the credit ceilings specified in 
each state’s Program of Fiscal Adjustment (PAF) and must be approved by the National Treasury 
Secretariat (STN).  
 
2. Proposed objectives 
 
The objective of the proposed operation is to support the State Government of Rio de Janeiro (GORJ) to 
strengthen its policies regarding planning and managing territorial growth of the Rio de Janeiro 
Metropolitan Region, promoting affordable housing provision, and providing targeted and integrated 
social assistance programs to the urban poor. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The operation is divided into three policy areas (urban development, housing, and social development) 
to reflect government priorities and their importance to the long-term sustainable growth of the RMRJ.  
Policy Area 1 is defined as “Strengthen Planning and Management of Livable and Sustainable Urban 
Growth in the Metropolitan Region”. The government’s policy objective is to ensure that future urban 
growth will not only meet the spatial requirements of the RMRJ’s economic and structural changes, and 
provide high quality of life, but also protect the region’s sensitive natural environment and mitigate 
disaster risks. Specifically, the priority areas where actions are needed to achieve the objectives include 
metropolitan management, urban environment, and disaster risk. 
Policy Area 2 deals with “Promoting the Provision of Affordable Housing with Reasonable Access and 
Quality”. Objective: The GORJ’s objective in housing development is to promote the supply of 
affordable housing with reasonable access and quality to meet the growing new demand in the RMRJ, 
while at the same time significantly reducing the existing housing stock deficit. In particular, the 
government’s aim is to help the poorest (families earning up to 2 minimum wages per month) to gain 
access to shelter.  
Policy Area 3 “Provide Targeted and Integrated Social Assistance Programs to the Urban Poor”. A core 
objective of the GORJ’s social development policy is to improve the quality of life in favelas to ensure 
that residents enjoy similar opportunities for development and access to public services as those living in 
the rest of the metropolitan region. These three areas are described in more detail in Box 1 below. 
Page  3
Box 1. 
Overview of the Proposed Operation
’s Components and Prior Actions  
Objectives 
Tranche I Prior Actions 
Tranche II Release Conditions 
Policy Area #1. Strengthen planning and management of urban growth in the metropolitan region 
a) Strengthen 
metropolitan 
management 
through 
improved 
integration 
and 
coordination 
in urban 
development 
and transport 
Prior Action 1:
 Establishing state leadership 
on metropolitan issues through a Directive 
Committee for Metropolitan Strategy headed 
by the Vice- Governor of the State, and a 
Technical Working Committee. 
 
Prior Action 2:
 Improving quality and 
affordability of public transportation in the 
region by integrating tariffs for intercity 
transportation.   
Release condition 1: 
Key metropolitan 
governance mechanisms strengthened as 
evidenced by inclusion in the State's Multiyear 
Plan 2012-2015 of strategic priorities for the 
RMRJ, submitted and approved by the 
Directive Committee for Metropolitan 
Strategies;  
 
b) Strengthen 
management 
of the urban 
environment  
Prior Action 3:
 Ensuring sustainable water 
provision for RMRJ and protect water 
resources by way of institutiting payment for 
environmental services in the Guandu River 
Basin and its water resources.   
 
Prior Action 4:
 Strengthening the State's 
capacity to protect its environmental assets 
through supporting the expansion of INEA, its 
management and control capacity especially 
via the introduction of its own funding sources. 
Release condition 2: 
Legal framework and 
procedural system established for effective 
decentralization of environmental licensing to 
municipalities of activities with local impacts 
c) Improve 
capacity in 
Disaster Risk 
Management 
Prior Action 5:
 Reduce vulnerability and  
increase preparadness to natural disasters by 
establishing a state disaster risk program with 
incentives for municipal participation creating 
(i) a housing program prioritizing population in 
risk areas, (ii) a social rental program for 
families affected by disaster, and (iii) 
assistance and incentives for municipalities to 
delineate risk areas. 
Release condition 3:
 Monitoring and real time 
alarm system for flooding in the basins of the 
rivers Iguaçu and Sarapuí, and of the east 
Guanabara Bay deployed and operational. 
Policy Area #2. Promote the provision of affordable housing with access to infrastructure and service 
a) Enhance 
low-income 
housing 
policy and 
financing 
mechanisms  
Prior Action 6:
 Implementing effective private 
sector participation in low income housing, 
providing land infrastructure as necessary and 
coordination of the demand cadastre.  
Release condition 4:
 Enhance governance and 
policy mechanisms of the low income housing 
sector through formulation and approval of 
new operating rules for the State Housing 
Fund, conceived as dedicated fund for low 
income housing. 
 
Release condition
 
5:
 Agreement between State 
and Municipalities to meet housing demand in 
the range 0-3 SM, established and operating in 
at least one municipality. 
b) Strengthen 
land 
management  
and titling  
Prior Action 7
:
Enhanced framework for land 
titling programs, with 1) Implementation of 
pilot projects under Complementary Law 131-
2009 allowing state land donation to provide 
titles to low income families; 2) Approval of 
Law 5440 of 2009 and its implementation rules 
(regulamentação), exempting ITD from State 
donation of property to low-income families; 
3) Provision of technical assistance to 
Release condition 6:
 System to identify vacant 
and sub-utilized areas for housing use in place 
and operational. 
 
Release condition 7: 
ITERJ's resources and 
programs expanded to significantly scale up its 
land tenure regularization program 
Page  4
municipalities to strengthen  capacity for land 
titling. 
Policy Area #3. Provide targeted and integrated social assistance to the urban poor 
(a) Improve 
living 
conditions in 
most 
vulnerable 
social 
settings 
Prior Action 8:
 Launching of the UPP Social 
Program through the roll out of three pilots to 
institutionalize territorial integration of social 
interventions in favelas;  
 
Prior Action 9:
 Improvement of targeting and 
transparency of enrollment and social benefit 
allocation in crime and violence prevention 
programs for vulnerable youth.   
Release condition 8:
 Secretariat of Social 
Welfare and Human Rights restructured 
(transition from a silos structure to a horizontal 
organization of sectors by encouraging 
coordination and integration, as well as 
introduction of M&E unit) and operational. 
 
Release condition 9: 
Definition of a structured 
and standardized protocol (procedure) for 
monitoring and evaluation of social actions 
The proposed operation is conceived as a two tranche DPL. Disbursement of the first tranche would 
signal recognition of the GORJ’s continued strong fiscal discipline and reform-minded policies to 
strengthen urban, housing, and social development in the state and in the metropolitan area. In turn, the 
disbursement will support a better debt management on the part of the state and a comprehensive set of 
policy reforms aiming at improving management of metropolitan urban space, in line with Rio de 
Janeiro’s continuation of the Program of Accelerated Growth (PAC) and other urban and social 
programs. Disbursement of the second tranche would signal that the sector reform is being continued 
and consolidated and that substantive results have been achieved.  
While the prior actions and tranche II release conditions are critical indicators for loan disbursement, the 
policy actions supported by the Bank go beyond these release conditions. The operation and the 
proposed TAL (currently under preparation) support a much broader set of government policy actions in 
the three main policy areas, Following good practice principles on conditionality, the policy matrix aims 
to use a limited number of prior actions and release conditions, chosen because of their importance to 
achieving results. These actions are part of a comprehensive reform plan with a solid track record of 
implementation.  
4. Social and Environmental Aspects 
The specific policy reforms supported by this DPL are expected to have significant and positive poverty 
alleviation and social development impacts in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region, bringing major 
benefits to the population living in informal settlements, at-risk areas or substandard housing facilities. 
These policies and reforms will lead to the establishment of viable measures for the integrated upgrading 
of favelas to ensure adequate infrastructure and services, the regularization of irregular settlements, and 
to resettle at-risk families in new housing units as a priority intervention to protect and benefit this 
segment of the population. Thus, these measures are expected to bring positive social and economic 
gains for poor people and the most vulnerable groups in the RJMR, as well as lead to the improvement 
of housing solutions in favelas and in irregular settlements.  
The provisions of OP 8.60 on Development Policy apply to the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Urban and 
Housing DPL. The policies and reforms supported by this operation (which promote improvements in 
integration, planning, and management) have great relevance to environmental quality and natural 
resources protection in the metropolitan region. It is expected that they will produce net positive 
environmental impacts in the region. 
5. Tentative financing 
Page  5
Source:                        
 
 
 
 
            ($m.) 
 
Borrower                  
 
 
 
 
 
    0 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                485 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: 
Ming Zhang (TTL) 
Title: 
 
Lead Urban Specialist 
Tel:  
202- 
473-4195 
Email:  
mzhang1@worldbank.org
