                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2522



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-80110)



                                   ON A LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$485 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                        THE STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO

                          WITH A GUARANTEE FROM

                   THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                         FOR A

 RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN URBAN AND HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
                         POLICY LOAN




                                   May 29, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective May 29, 2013)


                     Currency Unit =     Brazil Real
                       BR R$ 1.00 =      US$ 0.47
                         US$ 1.00 =      BR R$ 2.11

                    BRAZIL - Government Fiscal Year
                      January 1   –   December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADF       Agence Française de Développement
         (French Development Agency)
AUIS     Areas of Housing or Urban Special Interest
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEHAB    Companhia Estadual De Habitacao E Obras,
         (State Company for Housing and Public Works)
CEPS     Comitê Executivo de Políticas Sociais
         (Executive Committee for Social Policies)
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DMR-RJ   Departamento de Recursos Minerais do Estado do Rio de Janeiro,
         (Department of Mineral Resources of the State of Rio de Janeiro)
DRM      Disaster Risk Management
DPL      Development Policy Loan
DRM-RJ   Núcleo de Prevenção e Análise de Desastres Geológicos
         (Center for Analysis and Prevention of Geological Disasters)
EMOP     Empresa de Obras Públicas do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
         (Public Works Company)
FEHIS    Fundo Estadual de Habitação de Interesse Social
         (State Social Housing Fund)
FY       Fiscal Year
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoRJ     Government of the State of Rio de Janeiro
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
INEA     Instituto Estadual do Ambiente
         (State Institute of Environment)
ISR      Implementation Status Report
ITERJ    Instituto de Terras e Cartografia do Estado de Rio de Janeiro
         (Land and Cartography Institute of Rio de Janeiro State)
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
MCMV     Minha Casa Minha Vida,
         (My Home My Life)
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
PAC      Programa do Aceleramento do Crescimento
         (Program of Accelerated Growth)
PDO      Project Development Objective
PPA       Plano Plurianual
          (Multi-year Budget Plan)
PROTEJO   Programa de Proteção de Jovens em Territorio Vulnerável
          (Program for Youth Protection in Vulnerable Territories)
R$        Brazilian real
RJMR      Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro
SEASDH    Secretaria de Estado de Assistência Social e Direitos Humanos
          (Secretariat of Social Welfare and Human Rights)
SEH       Secretaria de Estado de Habitação
          (Secretariat of Housing)
SEOBRAS   Secretaria de Obras
          (Public Works Secretariat)
SEFAZ     Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda
          (Finance Secretariat)
SIL       Specific Investment Loan
TAL       Technical Assistance Loan
TWC       Technical Working Committee
UPP       Unidades de Polícia Pacificadora
          (Pacification Police Units)
ZEIS      Zona Especial de Interesse Social
          (Social Interest Housing Zone)




                     Vice President:      Hasan A. Tuluy
                   Country Director:      Deborah L. Wetzel
                    Sector Director:      Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
                    Sector Manager:       Anna Wellenstein
                  ICR Team Leader:        Alessandra Campanaro
                                                           BRAZIL

   Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Urban and Housing Development Policy Loan

                                                        CONTENTS



 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring


1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 6
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 15
6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 18
Annex 1 - Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........................ 19
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 21
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 22
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................ 23
Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................. 27
Annex 6. Achievement of Program Development Objectives .................................................. 28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 37
A. Basic Information
                                                                                          Rio de Janeiro
Country:                              Brazil             Program Name:                Metropolitan Urban and
                                                                                      Housing Development
Program ID:                          P122391             L/C/TF Number(s):                 IBRD-80110
ICR Date:                           05/20/2013           ICR Type:                           Core ICR
                                                                                       STATE OF RIO DE
Lending Instrument:                    DPL               Borrower:
                                                                                            JANEIRO
Original Total
                                 USD 485.00M         Disbursed Amount:             USD 485.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:                  USD 485.00M
Implementing Agencies: State Government of Rio de Janeiro’s Secretariat of Finance, Secretariat of
Public Works, and Secretariat of Social Action and Human Rights
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: N.A.

B. Key Dates
                                                                                           Revised / Actual
      Process                Date                    Process          Original Date
                                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:           10/19/2010           Effectiveness:                                09/01/2011
Appraisal:                12/15/2010           Restructuring(s):
Approval:                 03/15/2011           Mid-term Review:
                                               Closing:                12/31/2012             12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                                Moderate
Bank Performance:                                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                                Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings                  Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:         Moderately Satisfactory Government:                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision:   Moderately Satisfactory                                   Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                          Moderately Satisfactory                                   Moderately Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation                              QAG Assessments (if
                                 Indicators                                                 Rating:
         Performance                                        any)
 Potential Problem Program
                                     No          Quality at Entry (QEA):                     None
at any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                          Quality of Supervision
                                     No                                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                   (QSA):
DO rating before                 Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:        Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                        19                     19
Housing construction                                                         12                     12
Other social services                                                   19                    19
Sub-national government administration                                  38                    38
Urban Transport                                                         12                    12
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                                  25                   25
Natural disaster management                                              13                   13
Personal and property rights                                             12                   12
Urban planning and housing policy                                        25                   25
Urban services and housing for the poor                                  25                   25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:                        Hasan A. Tuluy                             Pamela Cox
Country Director:                     Deborah L. Wetzel                           Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager:                       Anna Wellenstein                          Guang Zhe Chen
                                                                                  Ming Zhang
Program Team Leader:                Alessandra Campanaro                         Sameh Wahba
                                                                             Alessandra Campanaro
ICR Team Leader:                    Alessandra Campanaro
ICR Primary Author:                     Cecilia Zanetta


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

This operation provided support to the State Government of Rio de Janeiro (GoRJ) to:

PDO 1. Strengthen policies for planning and managing territorial growth in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan
       Region by:
       a. Strengthening metropolitan management through improved integration and coordination in
           urban development and transport;
       b. Strengthening management of urban environment;
       c. Improving capacity in Disaster Risk Management (DRM);
PDO 2. Promote the provision of affordable housing by:
       d. Enhancing low-income housing policy and financing mechanisms;
       e. Strengthening land management and titling; and
PDO 3. Provide targeted and integrated social development programs to the urban poor to:
       f. Improve living conditions in most vulnerable social settings.


Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving authority)
N.A.
(a) PDO Indicators

                                                    Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                          Formally
                                                     Values (from                          Achieved at
       Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised Target
                                                       approval                          Completion or
                                                                           Values
                                                      documents)                          Target Years
PDO 1. Strengthen its policies for planning and managing territorial growth in the Rio de Janeiro
           Metropolitan Region
a. Strengthen metropolitan management through improved integration and coordination in urban
development and transport
Indicator 1 :        Metropolitan-wide plans for Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region (RJMR) in effect.
Value
(quantitative or                  0                        3                                    1
qualitative)
Date achieved               31 Dec. 2009             31 Dec. 2012                         31 Dec. 2012
                     Partially Achieved (33% achievement): Metropolitan Arco Master Plan has been
Comments             concluded and is under implementation. The State Housing Plan has been prepared,
(incl. %             although final presentation is pending. Substantial progress has been made toward
achievement)         updating the Urban Transport Master Plan, which is expected to be completed by
                     March 2013.
                     Change in formatting of Multi-year Development Plan (PPA) taking into account the
Indicator 2 :
                     Integrated Program for Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region (RJMR).
Value
(quantitative or                 No                       Yes                                  Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved               31 Dec. 2009             31 Dec. 2012                         31 Dec. 2012
Comments
                     Achieved (100% achievement): The Multi-Year Development Plan 2012-2015
(incl. %
                     includes geographically-bounded budget allocations for Rio’s Metropolitan Region.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :        Number of passengers using smart-card with integrated fare.
                                                                                          An average of
Value                                                                                      505,240, of
(quantitative or                  0                     550,000                        passengers per week
qualitative)                                                                             day, with peaks
                                                                                      hovering over 520,000
Date achieved               31 Dec. 2009             31 Dec. 2012                         31 Dec. 2012
                     Substantially Achieved (95% achievement): The Single Ticket Smart Card (Bilhete
Comments
                     Único) has been successfully implemented, reaching an average of roughly 505,000
(incl. %
                     passengers per day during weekdays, with the maximum number of passengers
achievement)
                     hovering over the 520,000 mark (Dec. 3-21, 2012).
b. Strengthen management of urban environment
                     Increase INEA’s direct annual investment budget through State Environmental Funds
Indicator 4 :
                     excluding operational costs.
Value                                                                                   R$175 and R$152
                                          1
(quantitative or           R$62.5 million            R$170 million                     million in 2011 and
qualitative)                                                                            2012 respectively
Date achieved               31 Dec. 2009             31 Dec. 2012                         31 Dec. 2012
                     Substantially Achieved (89% achievement): The share of state environmental funds
Comments             executed by INEA have increased substantially with respect to 2009—by a factor of 2.8
(incl. %             and 2.4 in 2011 and 2012, respectively. The execution of some of these funds is
achievement)         expected to further increase in 2013 once INEA begins transferring resources to newly
                     established water management organizations.
                     INEA has increased number of watershed management organizations fully
Indicator 5 :
                     operationalized by contracting an Executive Branch (delegataria).



1
  The original baseline (i.e., R$64 million) was modified to ensure its methodological consistency with the
reported outcomes, which reflect executed budgetary resources rather than just budgeted resources.
                               75%                                                        88.9%
Value
                      (6 out of 8 watershed                                       (8 out of 9 watershed
(quantitative or                                    100%
                          management                                                  management
qualitative)
                          organizations)                                              organizations)
Date achieved             31 Dec. 2010          31 Dec. 2012                          31 Dec. 2012
                   Partially Achieved (89% achievement): Eight watershed management organizations
Comments
                   are now fully operational, having signed management contracts with delegatarias.
(incl. %
                   Another water management organization was created in 2011. All nine water
achievement)
                   management organizations are expected to be operational in 2013.
c. Improve capacity in Disaster Risk Management (DRM)
                   State-level geological landslide susceptibility map covering at least 75% of the
Indicator 6 :
                   municipalities in the RJMR
Value
(quantitative or              10%                      75%                                    89.5%
qualitative)
Date achieved             31 Dec. 2009            31 Dec. 2012                            31 Dec. 2012
Comments
                   Achieved (119% achievement): Seventeen out of the 19 municipalities in the RJMR
(incl. %
                   have been mapped. The remaining two are expected to be mapped by June 2013.
achievement)
Indicator 7:      Identification of exposure to landslide risk in 10 prioritized areas
Value                           0                       10                                       15
Date achieved             31 Dec. 2009             31 Dec. 2012                             31 Dec. 2012
                  Achieved (150% achievement): Fifteen out of 17 municipalities with significant
Comments (incl. %
                  exposure to landslide risk have been mapped for imminent risk, resulting in the
achievement)
                  identification of over 16,000 inhabitants living in high risk-prone areas.
Indicator 8:      Population benefitting from real-time alarm system
Value                   2.9m people (*)            4.9m people                              4.97m people
Date achieved             31 Dec. 2009             31 Dec. 2012                             31 Dec. 2012
                  Achieve (100% achievement): Almost 5 million residents living in flood-prone areas
Comments (incl. %
                  now benefit from the INEA’s early alert system (http://inea.infoper.net/inea/).
achievement)
                  (*) Note: The baseline was adjusted according to the 2010 Census data.
                  Social rental program budgeted and, where applicable, disbursed within 30 days of
Indicator 9:
                  disaster
Value                          No                       Yes                                     Yes
Date achieved             31 Dec. 2009             31 Dec. 2012                             31 Dec. 2012
                  Achieved (100% achievement): SEASDH has in place the institutional scaffolding
Comments (incl. % required to disburse payments under the social rent program within 30 days. This has
achievement)      been achieved by subscribing a number of institutional agreements with the federal and
                  municipal governments, as well as the private sector.
PDO 2. Promote the provision of affordable housing
a. Enhance low-income housing policy and financing mechanisms
                   Signature of 5 donation contracts of state owned land to FAR/CAIXA, benefiting
Indicator 10:
                   approximately 5,000 families
Value
                                                 5 additional land                       3 additional land
(quantitative or                1
                                                donation contracts                      donation contracts
qualitative)
Date achieved             31 Dec. 2009             31 Dec. 2012                     31 Dec. 2012
Comments           Partially Achieved (60% achievement): Three additional contracts have been signed
(incl. %           and 9 are under analysis. SEH has completed the procedures under its control and is
achievement)       waiting for the CAIXA to finalize the remaining nine contracts.
                   Implementation of at least one condominium self-management model in social housing
Indicator 11:
                   at Complexo Batan (15,000 residents).
Value (quantitative
                             0                    1                                    0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           31 Dec. 2009        31 Dec. 2012                         31 Dec. 2012
Comments (incl. % Not Achieved (0% achievement): Implementation in Batan proved unfeasible, as it is
achievement)        one of the most violent areas in Rio. Instead, a study was conducted, which is expected
                    to provide the foundations for a future ownership management program..
b. Strengthen land management and titling
Indicator 12:       Increase of land titling program for slum dwellers.
Value (quantitative
                                1,500                   10,000                                   10,238
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                31 Dec. 2009           31 Dec. 2012                             31 Dec. 2012
                    Achieved (102% achievement): ITERJ has completed all the required administrative
                    procedures to issue 10,238 legal land titles, of which 2,050 are still awaiting official
Comments (incl. % recognition at the municipal level. The results are particularly remarkable when
achievement)        considering that ITERJ’s average annual output during 2009-2011 was of only 1,249
                    titles. Thus, the 2012 output represents a drastic increase—almost over an eight fold
                    increase with respect to the 2009-2011 period.
                    Number of feasibility studies for identification of adequate areas to implement large
Indicator 13:
                    scale developments for low income housing.
                                                           3
Value (quantitative
                                   0               (one per growth                                  0
or Qualitative)
                                                         pole)
Date achieved                31 Dec. 2009           31 Dec. 2012                             31 Dec. 2012
                    Not Achieved (0% achievement): INEA has conducted environmental feasibility
Comments (incl. % studies for four tracks of land in the metropolitan region with estimated capacity of over
achievement)        130,000 housing units. However, feasibility studies from a housing perspective to be
                    conducted by SEH are still pending. They are programmed under the upcoming TAL.
Indicator 14:       Develop an integrated housing development model for about 10 to 15 thousand families
Value                             No                      Yes                                      No
Date achieved                31 Dec. 2009           31 Dec. 2012                             31 Dec. 2012
                    Not Achieved (0% achievement): A large tract of land—so-called Manguinhos—was
Comments (incl. %
                    recently expropriated by the Governor to be used for an integrated housing
achievement)
                    development. No integrated housing development model has been yet developed.
                    Issuing a public recruitment announcement to hire at least 20% more technical staff for
Indicator 15:
                    ITERJ
Value                             No                      Yes                                     Yes
Date achieved                31 Dec. 2009           31 Dec. 2012                             31 Dec. 2012
                    Achieved (100% achievement): In 2011, ITERJ carried out the merit-based
Comments (incl. % recruitment of 104 technical positions, equivalent to 20 percent of its technical staff. Of
achievement)        these, 98 candidates have been officially selected and, as of April 2013, 87 of them
                    were already confirmed in their posts.
PDO 3. Provide targeted and integrated social development programs to the urban poor
a. Improve living conditions in most vulnerable social settings
Indicator 16:       Number of favela territories benefiting from the UPP Social Programs.
Value (quantitative                                                                               24
                                  0                        20
or Qualitative)
Date achieved              31 Dec. 2009             31 Dec. 2012                            31 Dec. 2012
                    Achieve (120% achievement): In January 2011, the UPP Social Program was
                    transferred from the state level to the municipal level. A new state-level program—so-
Comments (incl. %
                    called Peace Territories—has been implemented in 17 favelas, while the
achievement)
                    complementary municipal level program—the UPP Social Carioca—has been
                    implemented in 24 favelas.
                    Approval of new organization chart of Secretariat of Social Assistance by December
Indicator 17:
                    2012
Value                            No                       Yes                                     No
Date achieved                12/31/09                  12/31/12                                11/26/12
                    Not Achieved (0% achievement): Approval of SEASDH’s new organizational structure
Comments (incl. % was expected by end of December but it was delayed by a change in SEASDH political
achievement)        leadership. However, although the new organizational structure has not been officially
                    approved, there has been considerable progress toward its implementation.
Indicator 18:     Number of social development programs with M&E system established
Value                          0                      15                                        3
Date achieved            31 Dec. 2009            31 Dec. 2012                            31 Dec. 2012
                  Partially Achieved (20% achievement): Progress has been made toward enhancing
                  M&E of social programs under SEASDH’s responsibility. There is now centralized
Comments (incl. %
                  information of the progress being done in all programs with respect to their own M&E
achievement)
                  frameworks. Moreover, three programs are being subject to randomized impact
                  evaluations.


G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                Actual Disbursements
 No.                                  DO                          IP
          Archived                                                                   (USD millions)
  1      06/28/2011               Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2      02/01/2012               Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    485.00
  3      11/05/2012          Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory              485.00
  4      02/10/2013         Moderately Unsatisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory             485.00

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The State of Rio de Janeiro is the third largest in Brazil, with the Rio Metropolitan Region
(RJMR) being the second largest metropolitan area in the country with a population of 12 million.
As the historical capital and a major tourism destination, the RJMR has special significance for
Brazil. While the region’s economy and urban growth suffered considerably since the 1970s as a
result of the relocation of the capital to Brasilia, industrial restructuring and social problems,
population growth has recovered significantly in recent years as a result of the discovery of
offshore oil reserves and the resurgence of industrial activity, including mining, petrochemicals,
metallurgical, port, logistics, and creative industries. The region has also been in the spotlight as
the host of important mega-events, such as the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Summer Olympic
Games.
Proactive urban and housing development strategies and policies are urgently needed to ensure
the reemergence of a competitive and green metropolitan region that is environmentally
sustainable and offers a high quality of life as well as equitable access to opportunities and
services. Of particular concern is that future growth will be taking place in a fragile environment
that is highly vulnerable to natural disasters such as flooding and landslides, as highlighted by the
severe toll taken by natural catastrophes that occurred in 2010 and 2011. Recognizing the
challenges ahead, the Government of Rio de Janeiro (GoRJ) requested the Bank’s support to
strengthen its policies for planning and managing territorial growth in the RJMR, promoting the
provision of affordable housing, and providing targeted and integrated social development
programs to the urban poor
The state’s fiscal framework was deemed adequate for the purpose of a DPL operation, as fiscal
and debt trends were expected to remain sustainable over the medium-term, even in view of the
upcoming World Cup and Olympic Games. Fiscal arrangements between the federal government
and the state and between the state and the municipal governments were also deemed adequate
and expected to remain largely unchanged over the medium term.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
This operation aimed to support the three development objectives, each of which was to be
attained by focusing on strategic areas of intervention. A battery of Key Performance Indicators
(KPIs) was identified to track progress toward the achievement of each PDO, as follows:

PDO 1 - Strengthen planning and management of urban growth in the metropolitan region
a - Metropolitan management
 KPI 1 - Metropolitan-wide plans for RJMR in effect.
 KPI 2 - Change in formatting of Multi-year Plan (Plano Plurianual - PPA) taking into account the
            Integrated Program for RJMR.
 KPI 3 - Number of passengers using smart-card with integrated fare.
b - Management of the urban environment
 KPI 4 - Increase INEA’s direct annual investment budget (through State Environmental Funds)
            excluding operational cost
 KPI 5 - Rio’s State Institute of Environment (Instituto Estadual do Ambiente – INEA) has increased
            number of watershed management organizations fully operationalized by contracting an
            Executive Branch (delegataria).
c - Disaster Risk Management
 KPI 6 - State-level geological landslide susceptibility map covering at least 75 percent of the
            municipalities in the RJMR.
 KPI 7 - Identification of exposure to landslide risk in 10 prioritized areas.
 KPI 8 - Number of people benefiting from real-time alarm system.



                                                    1
     KPI 9 - Social rental program budgeted and, where applicable, disbursed within 30 days of disaster
              occurrence
PDO 2 - Promote the provision of affordable housing with access to infrastructure and service
a - Low-income housing policy and financing mechanisms
 KPI 10 - Signature of 5 donation contracts of state owned land to FAR/CAIXA, benefiting approximately
           5,000 families.
 KPI 11 - Implementation of at least one model of residents ownership in social housing at Complexo
           Batan (15,000 residents).
b - Land management and titling.
 KPI 12 - Increase of land titling program for slum dwellers.
 KPI 13 - Number of feasibility studies for identification of adequate areas to implement large scale
           developments for low income housing.
 KPI 14 - Develop an integrated housing development model for about 10 to 15 thousand families.
 KPI 15 - Issuing a public recruitment announcement to hire at least 20% more technical staff for ITERJ.
Policy Area 3 – Support the Implementation of a Targeted, Comprehensive Social Development
program for the Urban poor
a - Living conditions in most vulnerable social settings
 KPI 16 - Number of favela territories benefiting from the Pacification Police Units (Unidades de Polícia
             Pacificadora - UPP) Social Programs.
 KPI 17 - Approval of new organization chart of the Secretariat of Social Assistance and Human Rights
             (SEASDH).
 KPI 18 - Number of social development programs with M&E system established.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification
Not Applicable
1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program
                       Policy Area 1 – Metropolitan planning and growth management
    Within this policy area, the operation focused on the following strategic areas of intervention:
    Metropolitan management: The operation supported the improved integration and coordination in urban
    development and transport as a way to address the challenges of metropolitan management, including: i)
    establishing state level leadership on metropolitan planning and management issues; ii) designing a
    medium-term metropolitan strategy and program to be included in the state’s 20 12-2015 development
    plan; iii) strengthening existing sector-specific metropolitan institutions and investment coordination; and
    iv) enhancing public transport governance and services through improved quality and affordability by
    integrating tariffs for intercity transportation.
    Management of the urban environment: The operation supported a set of measures to address the
    challenge of effectively coordinating environmental policy at the metropolitan level while meeting social
    demands, including: i) fostering the technical strengthening and financial independence of the state
    Environmental Agency (INEA); ii) establishing an appropriate mechanism to protect the state’s sensitive
    environmental assets, including the Guandu River Basin in the RJMR, which provides 80 percent of the
    region’s water supply; and iii) establishing a decentralized, rigorous and timely licensing process.
    Disaster Risk Management (DRM): While the GoRJ had been moving toward a more proactive
    approach to reducing risks, several issues remained to be addressed to increase the focus on prevention
    and mitigation. The operation supported a set of measures to address the challenges of disaster risk
    management, including: i) the establishment of a disaster risk program with an incentive system and
    funding source for municipal actions on disaster risk; ii) the identification of hydrological and geological
    risks at the state level and improvements to the information system; iii) implementation of a more effective
    early warning system and contingency plans; iii) the establishment of clear policies for reconstruction that
    include disaster risk components; and iv) the development of a state disaster risk management policy with
    a clear outline of the responsibilities of the different state agencies.
                                           Policy Area 2 – Affordable housing
    Within this policy area, the operation focused on two strategic areas of intervention:
    Low-income housing policy and financing mechanisms: The operation supported a set of measures
    to address the challenges hindering the supply of affordable housing, including: i) the implementation of
    effective private sector participation in low-income housing, providing land infrastructure as necessary



                                                         2
 and coordinating the demand cadaster; ii) collaboration with municipalities in the RJMR to meet housing
 demand for households in the 0-3 minimum-wages income range; iii) improving the governance
 mechanisms of the State Housing Fund as dedicated funding for low-income housing; and iv)
 strengthening the management of common areas in existing housing complexes and creating conditions
 for sustainable housing projects in the future.
 Land management and titling. The operation supported a set of measures to address the challenges
 facing the regularization of land tenure, including: i) enhancing the framework and capacity for land tenure
 regularization; ii) scaling up land titling for dwellers in informal settlements; and iii) enabling efficient
 access to land and infrastructure services.
                                    Policy Area 3 - Social Development
 The operation supported a set of measures to address the challenge of providing targeted, integrated
 social programs for the poor, including: i) launching of UPP Social, an innovative and multi-dimensional
 approach to integrate favelas with the rest of the city by rolling out a comprehensive menu of social
 support programs following pacification interventions by the military police; iii) restructuring of SEASDH to
 enable it to play a catalytic role within the portfolio of social development program it oversees; and iv)
 establishing strong planning and monitoring and evaluation systems.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
Not Applicable
1.6 Other significant changes
Not Applicable
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Program Performance
The Program was implemented as originally envisioned, with the two tranches being fully
disbursed on schedule. As noted below, however, one of the actions that had been taken as
indicative of progress toward SEASDH institutional restructuring was later reversed—i.e., the
merit-based hiring of SEASDH technical staff.

                                             Expected          Actual Release
    Tranche #              Amount                                                            Release
                                            Release Date            Date
    Tranche 1          US$290 million        Sept. 2011         9 Sept. 2011               (1) Regular
    Tranche 2          US$195 million        Dec. 2011          19 Dec. 2011               (1) Regular


                                                 Tranche 1
 Policy conditions as stated in the Program Document                                           Status
 The GoRJ strengthened its leadership on metropolitan issues through the
 establishment of a Directive Committee for Metropolitan Strategy headed by the                 Met
 Vice- Governor of the State, and a Technical Working Committee.
 The GoRJ created the Single Ticket (Bilhete Unico) to improve the convenience
 and affordability of public transportation in the RJMR by integrating tariffs for              Met
 intercity transportation.
 The GoRJ strengthened its capacity to protect environmental assets through the
 expansion of INEA’s human resources and financial capacity and the                             Met
 establishment of specific funding sources to finance INEA’s activities
 The GoRJ improved effective watershed management and decentralization by a)
 instituting a fee for all water rights holders and b) transferring the amount of               Met
 collected fees to watershed management organizations.
 The GoRJ has established a state disaster risk policy which provides the
 following incentives for municipal participation: (i) creation of a housing scheme
 program prioritizing the population living in risk areas, (ii) creation of a social            Met
 rental program for families affected by disasters, and (iii) provision of technical
 and financial assistance, and incentives for, municipalities to delineate risk areas.
 The GoRJ and at least one municipality sign an agreement on the structure of a
                                                                                                Met
 housing scheme, including development regulations and financial incentives, in



                                                      3
    order to meet housing demand in the range 0-3 MW for families living in risk
    vulnerable areas.
    The GoRJ enhanced framework for land titling programs, by 1) adopting a pilot
    scheme (Cantagalo) allowing state land donation to provide titles to low income
    families; 2) exempting low income families from payment of ITD in connection                 Met
    with such donation of land; 3) strengthening land titling capacity of seven
    municipalities through signing agreements for technical assistance.
    The GoRJ established the UPP Social Program, on a pilot basis, in the state
                                                                                                 Met
    slums of Borel, Cidade de Deus and Providencia.
                                                    Tranche 2
    Policy conditions as stated in the Program Document                                        Status
    The Directive Committee for Metropolitan Strategy strengthens key metropolitan
    governance mechanisms by issuing an Integrated Program for RJMR, for                         Met
    inclusion in the State’s Multi-year Plan 2012-2015.
    The GoRJ approves new operating rules for the State Housing Fund (FEHIS), to
    enhance governance and policy mechanisms of the low income housing sector,
                                                                                                 Met
    including use of FEHIS funds and strategic priorities for low income families (0-3
    minimum wages)
    The GoRJ strengthens ITERJ’ land tenure regularization capacity by increasing
    the amount of financial resources available to ITERJ and initiating the recruitment
                                                                                                 Met
    process of personnel in order to expand ITERJ’s programs to double its capacity
    in land tenure regularization.
    The GoRJ restructures and operationalizes the Secretariat of Social Assistance
                                                                                            Met, with one
    and Human Rights (SEASDH) by establishing a transition from a silo structure to
                                                                                          action later being
    a horizontal organization of sectors, promoting coordination and integration and
                                                                                               reversed
    introduction of a monitoring and evaluation program.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
                                   Major Factors Affecting Implementation
Natural disasters as catalyst for action: Two events served to galvanized support on the part of Rio’s
authorities toward developing a systematic approach toward risk management as opposed to just
emergency response. In January 2010, extreme weather resulted in floods and mudslides, leaving at least
85 people dead, many more have been injured, and more than 4,000 people were forced to evacuate their
homes. The worst affected municipality was Angra dos Reis, about 150 kilometers southwest of the city
of Rio de Janeiro. A second incident happened just three months later, in April 2010, when heavy rains once
again caused floods and mudslides, resulting in 212 deaths, 161 people injured and at least 15,000 people
made homeless. The flooding has particularly affected the city of Rio de Janeiro, and its surrounding area,
including the cities of Niterói. A further 10,000 homes were thought to be at risk from mudslides, most of
them in the favelas, the shanty town built on the hillsides above downtowns. Damage from the flooding was
estimated at US$13.3 billion, about 8 percent of the GDP of Rio de Janeiro State. These events created a
strong momentum toward developing a state-level disaster risk management strategy. The Bank’s fast
response to the GoRJ’s request for support permitted to fully capitalize on such momentum.
Effective articulation of Bank support at the policy level: This operation was one of several Bank
operations providing support in the State of Rio, including two other DPLs for the state of Rio de Janeiro,
amounting to a total of US$785 million and a DPL for the Municipality of Rio in the amount of US$1,045
        2
million. In addition, this operation was aligned with the sector policies being supported in transport, in
particular through the Rio’s Second Mass Transit Project (Project No. 111996, US$211.7 million; approved
July 2009), which aimed at improving the level of service provided to the suburban rail transport users in the



2
  The first DPL to the State of Rio (i.e., Rio State - Fiscal Sustainability, Human Development and
Competitiveness DPL; P117244) was approved on February 2010 for US$485.0 million to support the
GoRJ’s strategic efforts to improve fiscal management, competitiveness and s ocial service during the global
economic slowdown. A third DPL for the State of Rio (Rio State - Fiscal Efficiency for Quality of Public
Service Delivery DPLI; P 126465) was approved after this operation on August 2012 for US$300 million to
support the strengthening its sector management tools and the quality of education and health services. A
DPL to the Municipality of Rio (Rio Municipality - Fiscal Consolidation for Efficiency and Growth DPL; Project
No. 111665) was approved on July 2010 for US$1,045 million, which aimed at creating fiscal space for
investments to improve the quality and efficiency of public service delivery, especially in poor areas.


                                                        4
RJMR, including integrating mass-transport fares. This integrated, multi-sector approach toward lending
helped generate a critical mass of financing incentives, create positive synergies among the various
operations, and engage key actors at various levels of government and across sectors.
Less effective articulation of Bank support in terms of advisory services. In theory, advisory services
to this DPL were to be provided under additional financing for an ongoing TAL in the amount of US$48.0
        3
million. However, the preparation took longer than anticipated due, in part to innate complexity multi-sector
TAL operations and, as a result, the envisioned TA support did not materialize, causing implementation
delays, particularly in housing and the restructuring of SEASDH. To overcome this shortcoming, the Bank
team proactively sought alternative funding sources—mainly trust funds—to finance critical technical
assistance needs, partially ameliorating this shortcoming. This strategy required significant effort on the
team’s part to identify funding sources and carry out their supervision.
Conducive implementation environment: The implementation of Rio’s DPL II benefited from a stable
macroeconomic environment. Although at a rate lower than expected, Brazil’s annual GDP growth was 2.7
percent in 2011 and an estimated 1.2 percent in 2012, respectively, and an annual inflation hovering around
                              4
6 percent in 2011 and 2012. The State of Rio continues to experience economic growth, as a result of the
discovery of new oil reserves and a resurge in industrial activity. The upcoming World Cup and Summer
Olympics have also served as catalysts for mobilizing strong public and private investments.
Impact of political economy factors. On the positive side, there was political alignment between
authorities at the three levels of government —i.e., federal, state, and the municipality of Rio — for the first
time in several decades, which facilitated dialogue and coordination. The national elections also had positive
impacts, including increasing the visibility of the favela pacification efforts and, consequently, increasing
scrutiny and pressure to deliver results in UPP social. However, the presidential elections also had some
negative impacts on the operation’s implementation, including focusing more narrowly on the achievement
of the federal-supported Program of Accelerated Growth (Programa do Aceleramento do Crescimento –
PAC) at the expense of, for example, focusing on addressing structural institutional weaknesses at the state
level, including the housing and social secretariats. Together with the gubernatorial elections, presidential
elections also had a role to play in changes in leadership at the secretariat level within the state.
Institutional weaknesses as implementation bottlenecks. The institutional weakness and fragmentation
within the housing sector, which was identified as a risk at appraisal, was indeed a factor that hindered
implementation. In addition, the high leadership turnover within SEASDH undermined the actions supported
under this DPL that were aimed at the institutional strengthening of this Secretariat (i.e., organizational
restructuring, development of an integrated M&E system). There were three different Secretaries in charge
during the operation’s two-year lifespan.
Changes in the responsibility of social programs supported under the operation. In January 2011, the
UPP Social Program was transferred from the state level to the municipal level, while a complementary
program—so-called Territórios da Paz—was developed at the state level. This change proved to be
beneficial, as both the state and the municipality of Rio now have a presence in recently pacified favelas in a
coordinated manner, each jurisdiction focusing on the provision of services that are within their respective
scope of responsibilities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design
Overall, the DPL program benefited from a strong M&E system embedded in the operation’s Policy Matrix,
with a robust set of tranche-release policy actions and KOIs that effectively focused on crucial areas where
progress was needed.
While the 18 KPIs included in the Policy Matrix focused on actions that were clearly linked to the policies
being supported under the DPL, in retrospect they may have been too many. Moreover, they were uneven in
terms of their relative importance, some of them being too specific in the context of a development policy
operation. Likewise, some of them could have been more clearly defined. Finally, the achievement of some
indicators depended not just on state agencies but also government agencies at the federal and municipal
level, which added additional complexity. Some examples include:
    KPI 1 called for metropolitan-wide plans for RJMR to be in effect. “Being in effect? was not defined, and
     it can be interpreted in various ways, such as being formally adopted or having capital investments that



3
  Rio’s Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan (the Pró -Gestão TAL - P117244), which was
approved on 2010 for US$18.67 million, was envisioned as a vehicle for technical support to the state in the
policy areas under the first DPL.
4
  The World Factbook (Central Intelligence Agency, 2013; https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-
factbook/geos/br.html).


                                                       5
     are consistent with the plan.
    KPI 11 called for the implementation of at least one model of resident ownership in social housing at
     Complexo Batan. As it turned out Batan is one of the most violent favela in Rio, which added
     unnecessary complexity to the task. More flexibility in the definition of the indicator would have allowed
     adjustments during implementation, such as the development of the model in other areas.
    KPI 9 required that land donations for the Minha Casa Minha Vida program be reviewed and approved
     at the federal-level by Caixa, clearly outside SEH’s direct control. Likewise, the final issuing of land titles
     under KPI 12 depended on the final approval on the part of municipalities, which exceeded ITERJ’s
     authority. While the program carefully considered these risks at design, they were deemed reasonable,
     since federal, state and municipal incentives to align action were in place. However, timing of execution
     in these occasions proved to be a challenge in the way of full execution.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation
The Bank regularly monitored progress under the DPL series through periodic Bank supervision missions.
The Secretariat of Public Works, which was responsible for overall coordination, provided effective overall
leadership, as well as coordinated M&E of the actions included in the Policy Matrix, collecting data needed
from the various participating agencies. A total of four supervision missions were conducted during the
operations’ lifetime. Additional technical missions linked to the TF-sponsored TA were carried out, with a
monthly or bi-monthly frequency. Progress toward the achievement of policy actions was closely monitored
by the various sector specialists and clearly reported in the Tranche Release documents, Aide Memoires
and Implementation Status Reports (ISRs).The operation’s M&E was enriched by additional evaluations
commissioned by the GoRJ, including an impact assessment of the Billhete Unico carried out by the
renowned Getulio Vargas Foundation. In addition, there are several studies focusing on the overall impact of
the favela pacification interventions.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Utilization
The M&E system proved useful as a basic pulse-taking tool to assess progress toward implementation of
this DPL. Also, as reported by representatives of the various participating agencies, it served to foster the
exchange of information both across and within agencies and to give the various Secretaries as well as the
Governor’s Office the opportunity to have a periodic, comprehensive updates on the pr ogress being done in
the policy areas supported under the operation, which were key priorities of the administration.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:
A loan from the French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement - AFD) will continue to
provide support to policy actions in urban transport and metropolitan governance. In addition, additional
Financing for Rio’s Public Sector Modernization TAL operation (Pró-Gestão) for an additional US$48 million
will continue to provide support to activities that are in line with the objectives of this DPL. Specifically:
Strengthening metropolitan management through integration and coordination in urban
development, housing, and transport (US$13 million). This component will continue to support activities
aimed at developing a framework for metropolitan governance. Through policy roundtables, strategic
planning processes, workshops, study tours and sector studies, this component is expected to trigger a
collective learning process among private/ public stakeholders in the metropolitan region, thus, generating a
wider demand and political support for metropolitan management, including municipal governments.
Strengthening the state's disaster risk management capacity (US$10.4 million). This component will
continue to support activities aimed at further improving DRM capacity as well as the state's early warning
system for high rainfall events. DRM activities will include support for the development of a disaster risk
management policy/program, which will entail a participatory process to institutionalize DRM in the state.
The activities will include preventive measures, institutional capacity improvements, technical support for risk
reduction, and improved risk communication. Activities under this component will help ensure the fine tuning
and sustainability of this DPL’s policy outcomes in the area of DRM.
Improving living conditions in the most vulnerable social settings (US$9.9 million). This component will
support activities aimed at strengthening the SEASDH’s capacity to implement an integrated and data-driven
medium-term social development strategy, including organizational restructuring and formulation of a
strategic planning process; and support to the five strategic priorities of SEASDH. Activities under this
component are expected to help SEASHD complete the implementation of an integrated M&E that was
envisioned under this DPL.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


                                                         6
Relevance: High
This operation’s objectives were and continue to be highly relevant in relation to the GoRJ’s priorities and
the collaboration between Brazil and the Bank. The operation’s design and implementation that provided a
sound operationalization of its development objectives; hence, supporting its overall relevance. Specifically:
The operation remains fully consistent with the GoRJ’s priorities as reflected in its 2012-2015 Development
Plan (PPA), which has an overall focus on fostering economic development by creating, together with
municipalities, an environment conducive to private investments with the ultimate goal of generating social
benefits for the population as a whole. The 2012-2015 PPA explicitly acknowledges the importance of the
RJMR and aims at reinforcing its role as a vital economic hub, not just for the State of Rio but for Brazil as a
whole. Moreover, in line with one of the DPL’s tranche-release policy actions, the 2012-2015 PPA includes
multi-year budget allocations and investment plans explicitly designated for the metropolitan region.
This operation was also fully aligned with both the previous and current IBRD Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for Brazil. Specifically, the operation was fully aligned with the objectives of the Brazil CPS 2008-
2011, being one of a number of operations that supported its pillars at the sub-national level. The operation’s
focus was also highly relevant in the context of the current Brazil CSP 2011-2015, as it provided support
within the State of Rio to Brazil’s priorities for its partnership with the Bank, namely: (i) increasing the
efficiency of public and private investments; (ii) improving the quality and expand the provision of public
services for low income households; (iii) promoting regional economic development through improved
policies, strategic infrastructure investments; and (iv) further improve sustainable natural resource
management and enhance climatic resilience.


3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
PDO achievement has been mixed, reflecting the relative priority given to individual policy areas
by state authorities and the leadership and implementation capacity of individual agencies.
Progress within each Policy Area and corresponding PDOs is summarized below. (For a detailed
description of policy outcomes, see Annex 6).
Policy Area 1 - Planning and managing territorial growth in the Rio Metropolitan Region
Ranking: Satisfactory
The actions supported by under this Policy Area aimed to ensure that future urban growth meets
the spatial requirements of economic and structural changes by: a) enhancing coordination of
physical investments and service provision at the metropolitan level; b) enhancing the protection
of the region’s sensitive natural environment; and c) mitigating risks from natural disasters. The
specific achievements can be summarized as follows (see Datasheet for Result Framework and
Annex 6 for a detailed description of policy outcomes):

        Policy Area I - Planning and managing territorial growth in the Rio Metropolitan Region
PDO 1.a. Strengthen metropolitan management through improved integration and coordination in
urban development and transport
Overall progress made toward strengthening metropolitan management has been substantial, including: i)
establishing and strengthening metropolitan institutions; ii) developing and implementing metropolitan
strategy and plans; and iii) integrating regional public transport system. The main achievements can be
summarized as follows:
i. Establishment and strengthening of metropolitan institutions. The GORJ has implemented a series
of actions aimed at institutional strengthening with a metropolitan focus, including:
    The establishment of a Directive Committee for Metropolitan Strategy headed by the Vice-Governor and
     supported by a Technical Working Committee (TWC), with representation from key state secretariats, to
     work jointly with the municipalities on metropolitan planning, management, and investment issues. The
     TWC has been operational since May 2011.
    The State’s 2012-2015 Multi-year Development Plan (Plano Plurianual – PPA) includes for the first time
     geographically delimited programs, targets, and budget for the RJMR. This is expected to significantly
     enhance the state’s ability and incentives to plan, implement, and monitor the progress of an integrated
     metropolitan program. Thus, the corresponding target was met as envisioned.
ii. Development and implementation of metropolitan strategy and plans. Several of the planning
instruments being developed at the state level now have metropolitan focus, as follows:



                                                       7
     The Metropolitan Arco Master Plan, which has been completed and is under implementation. The Arco
      corridor will connect the main growth poles in the metropolitan area and the Itaguai Port, greatly
      enhancing accessibility and mobility within the region. The Social Housing Plan has been completed but
      has not yet been formally presented. Finally, the Transport Master Plan is currently being updated.
     Two of the anticipated three state plans with a metropolitan focus have been completed and only one is
      being implemented, thus, resulting in the partial achievement of the corresponding target. All three
      plans are expected to be completed and under implementation during 2013.
iii. Integration of regional public transport system. This operation has contributed toward enhancing
public transport governance and services through improved quality and affordability by integrating tariffs for
intercity transportation (i.e., buses, metro, suburban rail, and ferries). Riders can now buy a single ticket
(Bilhete Único) that can be used on several modes to complete a trip within a certain period of time. This
ticket costs less than the sum of the individual tickets that would have to be purchased otherwise, thereby
significantly benefiting low-income riders who, as research shows, take the longest trips with the most
transfers.
     Implementation of integrated urban transport fares. The Bilhete Único is being successfully
      implemented, with an average of roughly 515,500 passengers per day during weekdays and a
      maximum number of passengers hovering over the 520,000 mark (Dec. 3-21, 2012). This represents a
      substantial achievement of the corresponding target, approximating the 550,000 number of users
      specified at appraisal (95 percent achievement).
      There is evidence showing significant social impact of the newly implemented Single Ticket. For
      example, household savings in transport are being redirected toward food and housing. Likewise, since
      employers subsidize the travel of their employees, the Single Ticket has increased employability within
      the RJMR. The RJMR Single Ticket was chosen the Best Transportation Program in Latin America by
      the International Association of Public Transport in 2001.
PDO 1.b. Strengthen management of urban environment
Progress made toward strengthening management of urban environment has been substantial, including: i)
strengthening the effectiveness of the GoRJ’s environment regulation functions; and ii) protecting key
environmental assets, especially the main water source for RMRJ. Specifically:
i. Environmental regulation functions. This DPL has supported the GoRJ’s efforts to enhance its capacity
to protect environmental assets by strengthening the State Environmental Institute’s (INEA) and enhancing
environmental licensing mechanisms. The main outcomes can be summarized as follows:
    INEA’s institutional strengthening: INEA’s technical capacity has been substantially strengthened by,
     among other measures, the merit-based recruitment of about 240 additional environmental
     professionals in 2009, accounting for roughly 20 percent of INEA’s p ersonnel.
     In addition, legislation was enacted to ensure that INEA has designated funding by earmarking pollution
     charges to its budget. As a result, there has been a substantial increase in INEA’s direct annual
     investment budget through other State Environmental from R$62.5 million in 2009 to R$151.9 million.
     Since this is slightly below the R$170 million target, the target is considered to have been partially
     accomplished. INEA’s executed budget is expected to increase in 2013 as water fee revenues start
     being transferred to the newly established decentralized water management entities.
    Enhanced environmental licensing: The state and the municipalities have strengthened the legal
     framework and procedures for the effective decentralization of environmental licensing for activities with
     local impacts, Environmental licensing is now required for most economic activities—even those with
     minor impacts are subject to environmental licensing, guaranteeing that economic activities be under
     the control of environmental authorities. In addition, the GoRJ has delegated responsibility for low-
     impact licensing to municipal authorities. An agreement between the state government and individual
     municipalities established the activities that can be licensed at the municipal level. Finally, the state has
     established stringent criteria to be met by municipalities wishing to issue environmental licenses.
     In 2012, forty-two out of the 92 municipalities in the state are already issuing environmental licenses —
     an average of 2,500 to 3,000 licenses per year. INEA is still responsible for issuing licenses that affect
     water bodies, deforestation, and non-local environmental impacts. The criteria to determine local impact
     that has been used by INEA is consistent with federal regulations, which were issued after INEA’s
     decentralized licensing system was designed. It is one of the few states that did not have to adapt its
     licensing system to the newly issued regulations.
ii. Protection of key environmental assets: The GoRJ has taken important steps toward enhancing and
decentralizing watershed management, including Instituting a fee for all water rights holder and transferring
collected fees to watershed management organizations (delegatarias) to undertake water protection
activities. Decentralized, basin-level watershed management is considered a best practice, as it has the
potential to enhance accountability and better capture the needs of end-users and other stakeholders. The
specific outcomes include:



                                                        8
  Decentralized water management organizations: Since 2009, nine watershed management
   organizations have been established in the state. Out of them, eight are now fully operational, having
   signed management contracts with delegatarias to undertake water resources protection activities,
   including reclamation. This target is considered to have been partially accomplished. The target is
   expected to be met during 2013.
PDO 1.c – Improve capacity in Disaster Risk Management (DRM)
The progress toward improving capacity in Disaster Risk Management (DRM)1 has been high, including: i)
establishing a state disaster risk program in collaboration with municipalities; and ii) building up mapping and
information system for disaster risks.
i. Establishment of an inter-jurisdictional DRM program. In April 2010, the GoRJ created the Morar
Seguro Program, which includes financial incentives for municipalities to carry out DRM activities. It also
includes: i) a housing program that gives priority to people living in risk areas; ii) a social rental program for
families affected by disaster, and iii) technical assistance and financial incentives for municipalities to
establish the boundaries of risk areas. Some of the main outcomes include:
     The social rental program is fully operational, During 2012, 167.526 people received benefits as of
      November. The state funds allocated to the program have experienced a sustained increased, with a
      budget allocation of R$44.187 million in 2011, R$51.3 million in 2012 and R$61.6 million in 2013. The
      program is designed as a inter-jurisdictional partnership involving the three levels of government (i.e.,
      federal, state and municipal), including the utilization of the cadaster of beneficiaries and electronic
      payment cards utilized at the federal level (i.e., Bolsa Familia). It represents substantial progress in the
      GoRJ’s readiness to support disaster victims , including the disbursement of funds for temporary
      housing within 30 days of the disaster.
ii. Identification of hydrological and geological risks at the state level. There were notable outcomes in
this area, including:
     Implementation of a more effective early warning system and contingency plans. The flood alert system
      was created in 2008 under the Program for Flood Prevention and Environmental Control (Programa de
      Prevenção e Controle Ambiental de Inundações ) approved in the 2008-2011 PPA. The system issues
      low, medium, and high flood risk alerts and is directly linked to the Civil Defense system. The system
      sends notifications every 15 minutes to the central processing unit, which, in turn, sends daily reports to
      Civil Defense, municipalities, and other state hydro-meteorological institutions. The system currently
      benefits approximately 5 million people in 21 municipalities, covering the more risk-prone areas. Thus,
      the 4.9 million target for this indicator was exceeded.
     Identification of geological risks at the state level. One of the new initiatives under the state’s DRM
      strategy aims to strengthen technical expertise in geology and geotechnical engineering, and provide
      guidance for the coordinated management of state actions regarding geo-hazards in order to focus the
      efforts of different stakeholders on reducing the mortality rate and material damages caused by
      landslides. One of key tasks was the creation a geological landslide susceptibility maps, including:
      State-level geological landslide susceptibility maps have been developed for 17 of the 19 municipalities
      in the RJMR—exceeding the original 75 percent target. The remaining two municipalities are expected
      to be mapped by June 2013.
      In addition, 15 out of 17 municipalities with significant exposure to landslide risk have been mapped for
      imminent risk, resulting in the identification of over 16,000 inhabitants living in high risk-prone areas.
      The target, which called for ten municipalities, has been amply exceeded.

Overall, Policy Area 1- Metropolitan Management shows a satisfactory level of achievement. A
total of six of the nine KPIs associated to PDO 1 have been substantially achieved or exceeded.
The remaining three KPIs were partially achieved and are expected to be fully achieved during
2013. They constitute only minor shortcomings given the overall achievements within PDO 1 -
Strengthening policies for planning and managing territorial growth in the Rio de Janeiro
Metropolitan Region and, thus, do not detract from an overall satisfactory rating for this PDO.
Specifically, the operation’s achievements in terms of disaster risk management were at high-end
of the performance spectrum, as the DPL effectively built upon the momentum and political
support that resulted from highly visible natural disasters to substantially strengthen DRM
capacity at the state and municipal levels. The operation also had substantial achievements in
urban environment management, as INEA’s strong leadership and improved implementation
capacity and regulations translated into enhanced capacity to protect natural assets. Finally, the



                                                        9
consolidation of mass transit tariffs constituted the most significant step toward the development
of a metropolitan governance framework. The operation also contributed toward the development
of planning instruments with a metropolitan focus and the growing awareness of the need to
develop metropolitan institutions.

Policy Area 2 – Affordable Housing
Ranking: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The actions supported under this Policy Area aimed to promote the provision of affordable
housing with access to infrastructure and service, with a focus on: a) enhancing low income
housing policy and financing mechanisms; and b) strengthening land management and titling.
The specific achievements can be summarized as follows (see Datasheet for Result Framework
and Annex 6 for a detailed description of policy outcomes):
PDO 2.a - Enhance low-income housing policy and financing mechanisms
Progress toward enhancing low-income housing policy and financing mechanisms has been modest. While
the GoRJ has adopted various strategies to expand the participation of multiple actors (i.e., federal and
municipal governments, and the private sector) in the production of low-income housing, the number of
housing units being produced under the various program is still very small relative to an estimated low-
income housing deficit of 372,246 units in the RJMR (i.e., for households earning up to 3 minimum wages).
The main policy action and corresponding outcomes included:
i. Improving the governance mechanisms of the State Housing Fund. The Management Council for the
State Housing was constituted in 2009 according to the state law, with wide representation from the all major
stakeholders in low-income housing, including relevant state secretariats, social organizations related to
housing, municipalities, private sector associations, non-government organizations, and workers and
employees associations. In September 2011, the GoRJ approved a new strategy for FEHIS, including use of
FEHIS funds and strategic priorities for low-income families (0-3 minimum wages). FEHIS new strategy was
subsequently incorporated into the latest State Housing Plan.
Other actions aimed at enhancing the provision of low-income housing supported under this DPL included:
    Land donations for My Home, My Life (Minha Casa, Minha Vida – MCMV) Federal Housing Program.
     Under the MCMV Program, the state is piloting a new model for low-income housing provision, in which
     it donates land and supports infrastructure improvements as needed, while municipalities provides
     infrastructure, and private developers build the housing with federal government subsidies. As originally
     envision, the state’s Housing Secretariat (Secretaria de Estado de Habitação – SEH) was expected to
     donate five tracks of land. The process has been already completed for three of them and the other two
     are still under Caixa’s review, which is outside SEH’s influence. Thus, the target was partially achieved.
    Partnerships with municipalities for low-income housing. The GoRJ has been seeking to expand
     collaboration with municipalities in the RJMR to meet housing demand for households with an income of
     less than three minimum wages, including establishing regulatory measures and development
     incentives for building affordable housing on vacant land, including density bonuses, special zoning
     regulations, and more relaxed development regulations. The GoRJ signed a cooperation agreement
     with the municipality of Niterói to support a housing program benefiting 5,000 families with an income
     less than 3 minimum wages, victims of the recent landslides in Morro do Bumba, and other areas in the
     municipality. In addition, three additional housing complexes have been completed under agreements
     with other municipalities
    Condominium management model. The GoRJ intended to test a condominium self-management model
     in Complexo de Batan. This activity was not implemented as envisioned, partly because the Batan
     housing complex, which remains one of the most violent favelas in Rio, did not provide favorable
     conditions. This target was not met.
PDO 2.b - Strengthen land management and titling

Overall progress toward strengthening land management and titling has been modest. While remarkable
progress was done in scaling up land tenure regularization, performance was disappointing in terms of
ensuring the adequate supply of land to be used for affordable housing. The main policy actions and
corresponding outcomes can be summarized as follows:
i. Enhancing land titling. The drastic increase in the land titling was the result of a series of convergent
policy actions aimed at enhancing the legal framework for land tenure regularization, enhancing the
institutional capacity of the state’s Land Institute (Instituto de Terras e Cartografia do Estado de Rio de
Janeiro - ITERJ) and providing technical assistance to municipalities. Enhanced legal framework for land



                                                      10
tenure regularization. In 2009, the state enacted legislation enabling the donation of state land to low-income
families that occupied it, making these donations tax-exempted. The new legislation constitutes a major
breakthrough, as it has eliminated important barriers to land tenure regularization.
   Institutional strengthening of ITERJ. The state has supported ITERJ’s strengthening, allocating
    resources to double its capacity in the area of land regularization. Among the various actions that were
    carried out were a major overhaul of processes, the tertiarization of cadaster and topography
    processes, and the simplification of administrative procedures required for conferring a title. In addition,
    ITERJI was provided with state-of-the art physical facilities. In 2011, ITERJ carried out the merit-based
    recruitment of 104 technical positions, equivalent to 20 percent of its technical staff. The target was
    achieved. INEA’s enhanced institutional capacity is reflected in the increase in the ratio of budgeted
    versus executed resources, which increased from 65 to 80 percent between 2009 and 2012.
   Technical assistance to municipalities on land tenure regularization . ITERJ has successfully
    implemented a pilot project providing technical assistance to municipalities to strengthen their capacity
    for land tenure regularization. It is estimated that the pilot project benefited over 10,000 people living in
    the parcels that were regularized. In accordance with the new legislation, beneficiaries were exempted
    from paying transfer taxes. This pilot program also served to test new operational and administrative
    procedures reflecting the newly approved legislation, which clearly assigns ITERJ the authority to
    approve the donation of state land for social housing purposes without any additional legal instrument.
   Scaling up of land titling efforts. As a result of the additional technical and financial resources and new
    land regularization legislation and operational procedures, ITERJ was able to process 10,238 titles in
    2012, of which 8,188 have already been approved at the municipal level. The 10,000 target was met.
    This is a remarkable achievement considering that the 2009-2011 average was only 1,249 titles per
    year. ITERJ’s implementation capacity is expected to continue to grow progressively to reach an annual
    production of 40,000 titles.
Other actions aimed at enhancing the provision of low-income housing that were supported under this DPL
included:
    Feasibility studies. INEA has conducted environmental feasibility studies to assess the suitability of four
     land areas in the metropolitan region that could potentially hold more than 130,000 housing units.
     SEH’s, however, has not made any significant progress in this regard and is planning to perform these
     studies under the upcoming TAL, which is still under preparation. Thus, the target was not met.
    Integrated housing development model – SEH is in the process of defining a model for Manguinhos, a
     large track of land with a central location that was recently expropriated by the Governor. However, the
     definition of the integrated housing model to be applied for this area is still at a preliminary stage. Thus,
     the target was not met.

Overall, the achievement of outcomes under this Policy Area is considered to be moderately
unsatisfactory. Only two out the six KPIs associated to PDO 2 have been achieved or exceeded.
These two KPIs were under ITERJ’s responsibility. Progress was below target and often
negligible in the case of the remaining four KPIs, which were under SEH’s responsibility. They
constitute significant shortcomings in the operation’s achievement of PDO 2 - Promoting the
provision of affordable housing. Specifically, progress toward enhancing low-income housing
policy and financing mechanisms was below expectations. While the GoRJ has undertaken
several initiatives to expand the participation of multiple actors (i.e., federal and municipal
governments, and the private sector) in the production of low-income housing, the results so far
have been modest in relation to the existing low-income housing deficit. Progress toward
enhancing land management and titling has been uneven, including ITERJ’s notable institutional
strengthening, which, in turn, has led to a drastic increase in the number of titles being
regularized each year. However, progress was disappointing in terms of increasing the supply of
serviced land for low-income housing. Performance weaknesses in this Policy Area signal to the
institutional weakness and fragmentation within the housing sector, including SEH.
It is important to note that SEH’s limited performance does not translate into the state’s weak
performance in addressing the challenges associated with low-income housing. In this context, it
is fundamental to underscore the remarkable impact of the federal PAC that is being implemented
by the state’s Public Works Company (Empresa de Obras Públicas do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
– EMOP), which has supported the integrated slum upgrading programs of five favelas in the




                                                       11
RJMR with a population of more than 350,000 people. These actions were not included under this
DPL.


Policy Area 3 – Social Development
Ranking: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The specific achievements under this Policy Area can be summarized as follows (see Datasheet
for Result Framework and Annex 6 for a detailed description of policy outcomes):
                                     Policy Area 3. Social Development
PDO 3.a - Improve living conditions in most vulnerable social settings
Actions under this Policy Area aimed to improve living conditions in most vulnerable social settings by:
establishing an integrated social program for the urban poor; ii) reforming SEASDH with a mandate for
social development; and iii) developing an evidence-based approach to policy making and strengthen M&E.
The specific policy actions and corresponding outcomes can be summarized as follows:
i. Social Pacification Police Units Program - UPP Social. The GoRJ launched the UPP Social Program to
institutionalize the territorial integration of social interventions in favelas. The program has an innovative and
multi-dimensional approach to integrate favelas to the rest of the city by rolling out a comprehensive menu of
social support programs following pacification interventions by the military police. The program was hosted
under the SEASDH until December 2010 and was transferred at the municipal level at beginning of January
2011. The GoRJ then created a similar program at the state level —so-called Peace Territories (Território da
Paz)—to complement the municipal level UPP program—now called UPP Social Carioca. The main
outcomes include:
The Peace Territory and UPP Social Carioca Programs have been implemented in 17 and 24 favelas in the
city of Rio de Janeiro, respectively. The target was met. While it is difficult to isolate the impact of these
programs from that of the pacification itself, as well as from PAC investments targeted to these areas, there
are indications that beneficiary favelas are gradually showing signs of improvement, such as a reduction in
the number of violent crimes and deaths, an increase in the reporting of crimes that before went unreported,
such as theft, domestic violence, and rape. According to several studies, the impact of these interventions
goes well beyond a drop in crime and includes, among others, improvement in health and education
indicators, higher birth rates, housing appreciation, and expanded access to water and electricity. Moreover,
these positive impacts spill beyond the pacified favelas to affect the surrounding areas and the city as a
        5
whole.

ii. SEASDH’s restructuring - SEASDH was created in 2007 to absorb three former secretariats, which
were never integrated into a fully coherent entity. Although SEASDH’s new organizational structure was not
officially adopted as called for under the Policy matrix, progress was made tow ard enhancing the agency’s
transversal coordination and integration and its overall institutional capacity. Specifically:
     At the state level, an Executive Committee for Social Policies has been established to enhance cross-
      agency coordination and the overall effectiveness of the state’s agencies in pacified territories .
     Within SEASDH, a Technical Committee for Institutional Integration has been established to enhance
      inter-agency coordination of interventions targeting specific groups, such as children, youth, persons
      with disabilities, women, racial and ethnic groups.
     In addition, territorial plans have been developed for all favelas with Territórios da Paz/UPP Social to
      coordinate sectoral, social and urban initiatives from the state and municipal levels.
     A new organizational structure has been developed, and roughly 75 percent of the so-called Emergency
      Restructuring has been implemented. SEASDH’s activities have been substantially consolidated,
      resulting in a significant reduction in their number —from 90 to 42 activities. Although the new
      organizational structure was expected to be formally adopted by end-2012, its approval has been
      delayed due to a new change in the agency’s leadership. This target was not met.
     Unfortunately, some of the progress achieved was subsequently reversed. As mentioned earlier, the
      merit-based recruitment process of 95 technical staff, 57 of which had already been formally hired, was
      later declared invalid due to a technicality in the recruitment process. While SEASDH authorities have
      expressed their intention to repeat the merit-base selection process, this reversal also represents a
      serious step backwards in the context of this DPL, as it was one of the key actions taken into



5
    Based on various studies quoted in the Borrower’s Final Report (February, 2013).


                                                       12
    consideration in assessing progress toward SEASDH’s restructuring, which was conditions for the
                    nd
    release of the 2 tranche.
iii. Strengthening of SEASDH’s M&E systems. Although an M&E unit has been established within
SEASDH, the integrated, agency-wide M&E system that was originally envisioned is still under preparation.
It is important to note that, as the development of the M&E system was originally envisioned to be financed
under the TAL. As the preparation of this operation took longer than expected, the activities conducted so far
were financed with SEASDH’s own resources. This target was partially met. Some of these actions include:
     Establishment of a standardized M&E protocol for SEASDH programs, which was formally adopted
      under Decree No. 43,217 of October 3, 2011. An M& E Unit has been created within SEASDH’s
      organizational structured and is now operational.
     An inventory of the M&E framework of each of the 12 programs and 52 actions within SEASDH’s
      sphere of action has been completed. The M&E unit now centralizes the information and monitors
      progress regularly. This constitutes an improvement, as in the past there was no centralized information
      on the performance of individual programs. Three programs under SEASDH are being subject to
      randomized impact evaluations. One of them is for the PROTEJO program (Programa de Proteção de
      Jovens em Territorio Vulnerável), a federal protection program for at-risk youth managed by SEASDH.

Overall achievement within this Policy Area has been moderately unsatisfactory. One of the three
KPIs associated to PDO 3 has been fully achieved; there was partial progress toward the
achievement of the other two. They constitute a significant shortcoming, affecting the
achievement of PDO 3 - Providing targeted and integrated social development programs to the
urban poor. Nevertheless, that there were significant achievements under this Policy Area,
particularly the implementation of a new integrated social services program in recently pacified
favelas. These interventions have not only succeeded in reducing violent crimes but have also
increased social capital, academic performance, entrepreneurial activity and business
formalization, training, cultural activities, and access to basic services. While progress was made
toward strengthening SEASDH’s technical and institutional capacity, it has not been at the levels
that were originally envisioned. Initial momentum toward its reorganization and the development
of an integrated M&E system has been hindered by repeated changes of the agency’s top
administrators. Moreover, some of the progress shown at the time of the release of the 2nd tranche
was actually reversed, as the appointment of merit-based recruited technical staff has been voided
due to a technicality (i.e., the announcement was not published in the State’s Official Bulletin as
required).

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The operation continues to be highly relevant, particularly in view of the fast economic and
population growth prospects for the RJMR. This DPL effectively capitalized on a window of
opportunity to shape future urban growth into more efficient, sustainable and safer patterns.
Overall, the operation’s overall effectiveness is considered to be moderately unsatisfactory, given
the mixed PDO achievement. Achievement of PDO 1 was satisfactory. As envisioned under
Policy Area 1 - Strengthening GoRJ’s policies for planning and managing territorial growth in the
RJMR, this DPL has helped strengthen GoRJ’s ability to meet the challenges associated with the
present and future growth in a way that development not only meets the spatial requirements for
the region’s economic transformation, but also provides a better quality of life to all residents by
protecting the environment and reducing the risk of environmental disasters. Specifically,
substantial progress was made towards: a) strengthening metropolitan management through
improved integration and coordination in urban development and transport; b) strengthening
management of urban environment; and c) improving DRM capacity. Achievement of PDO 2 was
moderately unsatisfactory. Progress under Policy Area 2 – Promoting the provision of affordable
housing has been uneven. Substantial progress was made toward strengthening titling, including
the notable institutional strengthening of ITERJ, which, in turn, has led to a drastic increase in the
number of titles being regularized each year. However, progress has been weak in terms of land


                                                     13
management and enhancing low-income housing policy and financing mechanisms. Achievement
of PDO 3 was also moderately unsatisfactory. Progress under Policy Area 3 - Providing targeted
and integrated social development programs to the urban poor has also been mixed. Although the
newly established social program aimed at promoting the integration of recently pacified favelas
into the city shows great promise, the pending restructuring of SEASDH, including the
development of a sound monitoring and evaluation agency-wide system remains a barrier to the
GoRJ’s efficient provision of social services to improve living conditions in most vulnerable
social settings.
The policies supported under this operation can be expected to have substantial economic
efficiency given the strong economic impact of enhancing urban efficiency through sound urban
growth patterns, better provision of services—urban transport and low income housing in
particular—and proactive risk management that support both urban and household productivity.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
                          Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
a) Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development
Even though not all the policy actions envisioned under this DPL were implemented as originally envisioned,
those that did are expected to have significant positive poverty alleviation and social development impacts in
the State of Rio, and the RMRJ in particular. The operation’s poverty impact is particularly important g iven
the historically high poverty levels and social inequality in the RMRJ. Some of the operations’ specific
impacts on the living conditions of the poor include:
Increased access to job opportunities through the Billhete Unico - Poor families living in peripheral
areas in the RJMR are more affected by transportation costs, which hamper their ability to secure formal
sector jobs located in central metropolitan areas. It was estimated that 46 percent of low-income residents of
peripheral municipalities traveled daily to the capital, with the share of transportation in family budgets
reaching 17.3 percent in 2009, being second only to food (i.e., 17.9 percent). A study from the prestigious
Getulio Vargas Foundation (2010) shows that the implementation of the Billhete Unico has had substantial
positive impacts among the poor, including up to 50 percent cost reduction in transport fares as a result of
state subsidies, which in turn has contributed to the growth in employment in the RJMR.
Settlements in at-risk areas – Policy actions supported under the operation, including the risk susceptibility
mapping, housing relocation programs targeting families living in risk areas, the early alert emergency
system and the social rent program, are expected to have a particular impact on low income households,
which are more likely to live in risk-prone areas.
Increased access to affordable housing - The policies and reforms successfully supported by this DPL
have removed many of the constraints faced by residents of informal settlement, particularly those related to
securing land titles of regularized parcels through a stronger ITERJ. In addition, the operation supported the
revamping the State Social Interest Housing Fund and strengthened its management committee, which now
includes representatives from housing related social movements, NGOs, and unions; thus, ensuring the
Fund’s participatory, transparent governance.
Targeted social development program - In the short term, the Peace Territories Program and its
municipal counterpart are expected to contribute to the consolidation of the peace process in recently
pacified favelas through the creation and strengthening of channels for civic engagement and collective
action, including local facilitators, forums, citizen oversight mechanisms. In the medium-term, these
programs are envisioned as the main venue to establish a medium- and long-term agenda for fostering a
wide battery of social development programs, including poverty reduction, social services and infrastructure
development, with a strong territorial, multi-sector focus.
(b) Institutional change and strengthening
As described in detail above, this DPL has effectively supported institutional reform and capacity building
across a wide range of state agencies, INEA and ITERJI in particular. The stronger institutional capacity of
these two agencies has allowed them to fully capitalize on newly enacted legislation, resulting in remarkable
improvements in environmental management and land tenure regularization. Likewise, the GoRJ now has in
place an inter-jurisdictional DRM strategy, which has strengthened the State’s abi lity to better manage the
impact of possible natural disasters. In addition, the operation has also supported important steps toward
the development of an metropolitan governance framework, most notably the integration of mass-transit
fares. The operation’s institutional impact would have been high if the SEASDH’s restructuring had been
completed.



                                                     14
(c) Other unintended impacts
Cross-fertilization among other Brazilian states - Rio’s successful approach toward DRM has served as
a model that is being replicated in other states with Bank support.
Economies of scale – When INEA requested support to define technical standards for the purchase of
radar equipment to be utilized in the early alarm system, the Bank team used the opportunity to engage
federal authorities and define a country-wide standards to ensure the compatibility of the various state
systems as a potential first step toward the development of a federal radar network.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The sustainability of the achievements under this DPL varies significantly across the three policy areas as
well as across the individual agencies that participated within each policy area, as follows:
Planning and managing territorial growth in the RJMR – Moderate risk
Metropolitan governance – Substantial risk. The main factor undermining the sustainability of the progress
been done so far is lack of a strong demand for metropolitan governance institutional framework on the part
of political actors, both at the state and municipal levels. While the enhanced technical coordination of state-
level actions that was achieved under this operation constitutes an important first step, further progress will
depend on the inclusion of key municipal actors, the mayor of the Municipality of Rio in particular, and strong
leadership on the part of the GoRJ.
Management of urban environment – Low risk. The progress made so far toward strengthening INEA’s
capacity to manage environmental resources within the RJMR is likely to be sustained as a result of the
strong leadership within this agency, together with the substantial technical and institutional capacity that
has been generated. The merit-based recruitment of technical staff is an important determinant of INEA’s
ability to sustain strong performance in the future.
Disaster risk management – Low risk. While the tragedies that resulted from natural disasters in 2010
served to galvanize efforts to develop a well-coordinated, inter-jurisdictional RDM strategy its sustained in
the medium term depends on the ability of municipalities to maintain the personnel that has been already
trained, particularly after municipal elections. The state, on the other hand, has taken a strong leadership
role and assigned sound technical resources through the DRM DRM-RJ.
Affordable housing – Moderate risk
Low-income housing and financial mechanisms – Substantial risk. The weak implementation capacity
exhibited by SEH so far has hindered the provision of affordable housing solutions by the GoRJ and is likely
to continue to do so in the future.
Land management and titling – Low risk. Assuming the continuous allocation of adequate budgetary
resources, ITERJ’s enhanced performance is likely to be sustained in, as the result of the newly enacted
legislation as well as merit-based recruitment of a critical mass of ITERJ’s technical staff. To further enhance
sustainability at the municipal level, it would be important to formalize the technical assistance being given to
municipalities in the area of land tenure regularization.
Social development – Substantial risk
Improve living conditions in most vulnerable social settings – Substantial risk. The weak institutional capacity
of SEASDH, including coordination and leadership to deliver results for improved living conditions in most
vulnerable social settings, poses a significant risk.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
                                             Bank’s Performance
a. Bank’s Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (QAE)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The performance of the Bank in assisting the Borrower to identify, prepare and appraise the operation is
deemed moderately satisfactory, as the operation’s QAE exhibited both strengths and weaknesses that
affected implementation and overall PDO achievement. While the project was trying to achieve an
innovative, cutting edge multi-sector approach, defining a reasonable balance of objectives proved to be a
difficult task given the large number of stakeholders at various level of government, the legacy of the state’s
historically weak public sector, and the broad set of demands faced by the GoRJ.
Among the various strengths was the Bank’s ability to offer a swift response to the GoRJ’s request for
support, thus, effectively capitalizing on the window of opportunity that opened as a result of highly visible


                                                       15
and costly natural disasters. Two factors permitted the Bank to provide a quick response. First, a well-
articulated Bank support strategy for the State of Rio was already in place, which included a combination of
large operations at the state and municipal levels. Second, the operation benefitted from the Bank’s
extensive policy dialogue and analysis in the urban, housing, and social development sectors in Brazil, as
well as robust operational experience in Brazil’s housing sector, including support for the development of the
National Housing Policy and the National Housing Plan. A cross-sector Bank team succeeded in developing
a comprehensive approach focusing on key policy areas to foster not just DRM management, but also
sound housing and urban development within RJMR.
In terms of its design, the operation was grounded on a multi-sector approach, which was appropriate given
the multi-sector nature of the interventions being supported—i.e., metropolitan management, housing, DRM,
and social programs. The Bank team did not shy away from the challenges of adopting a multi-sector
approach, including the need to strengthen collaboration among various Secretariats within the state and
different networks within the Bank. The team did not shy away either from tackling potentially controversial
issues such as the involuntary resettlement of families living in areas at very high risk of massive landslides.
Likewise, the team recognized the inter-jurisdictional nature of the policy areas to be supported by the
operation—i.e., housing, transport, and DRM—and adequately conceived the operation as a territorially
bounded, metropolitan intervention.
There were also some weaknesses in the operation’s design. The Bank’s team appears to have
underestimated the implementation risks associated with what, in retrospect, now appears to have been an
overly ambitious program, including the high demands it placed on the GoRJ authorities in terms of
coordination and political support over a broad and diverse policy agenda. In addition, the operation’s Result
Framework included too many KPIs that depended on the performance of agencies with a recognized low
institutional capacity. In this regard, the Bank also failed to recognize the risk of not having vital advisory
services delivered in a timely manner under a separate TAL operation, which further exacerbated the risk
posed by institutional weaknesses. Although, to its credit the Bank team succeeded in providing some
technical assistance through Trust Funds and its supervision budget, it was an inadequate substitute for the
TAL. Finally, the operation’s M&E system had some weaknesses, including having too many KPIs, some of
which were too specific in relation to the broader policy objectives supported under the operation.
b. Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project was well supervised, with a total of four field missions having been conducted during the
operation’s lifetime. Sector and CMU managers followed project implementation closely. A team of ten
sector specialists from various networks were involved in supervision, contributing valuable expertise and
technical assistance. The Bank team was well coordinated and there was fluid internal communication
between the specialists and the TTL.
The operation also benefited from technical assistance provided through various sources, including the
Bank’s field office, particularly in the area of environmental management and DRM. The Bank team also
procured additional technical support through trust funds to provide technical support through local
consultants in the area of housing, which was identified as being particularly weak at appraisal. This
required significant efforts on the part of the Bank team in terms of identifying additional sources of funding
and their supervision. For example, a total of USD 350,000 was received from SFLAC and used for TA in
areas of housing and metropolitan governance.
In retrospect, it is now clear that an earlier more aggressive downgrading of the operation’s rating would
have been appropriate to flag implementation weaknesses to both managers as well as GoRJ’s authorities.
c. Justification of Rating for Overall Bank’s Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall, the Bank’s performance is considered moderately satisfactory to reflect the moderately satisfactory
ratings for QAE and supervision.
                                        Borrower’s Performance
a. Government’s Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
During preparation, the operation had a significant level of support from top state authorities, including the
Vice Governor, SEOBRAS, and SEASDH, as the policy areas supported under this DPL were important
priorities in the State’s Development Plan. During implementation, however, it proved challenging to align
priorities within the GoRJ to ensure the across-the-board achievement of the policy goals supported under
the operation.




                                                      16
b. Implementing Agencies’ Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The performance of implementing agencies was uneven; thus, it is deemed moderately unsatisfactory as it
negatively affected the operation’s implementation and overall achievement of objectives. . With support from
the Finance Secretariat (SEFAZ), SEOBRAS played a key role overseeing the overall implementation of this
operation and coordinating activities with the other sector agencies. Specifically, it facilitated the
implementation of the various activities, particularly those that required inter-agency coordination, tracked
their progress, prepared consolidated reports on outcome indicators and provided evidence justifying the
achievement of the individual conditions specified under the first and second tranches. It also maintained
fluid and effective communication with the Bank team.
The level of commitment as well as institutional capacity varied greatly among participating agencies.
Among the various participating agencies, INEA distinguishes itself by having both a strong leadership and
implementation capacity. It is also important to underscore the role played by ITERJI and DRM-RJ, which
successfully carried out the policy actions that were under their responsibility. Conversely, SEASDH’s and
SEH’s performance was below expectations and negatively affected the achievement of outcomes. In the
case of SEASDH, changes in leadership hindered the progress being done at the technical level toward
enhancing horizontal integration of the agency’s programs and its M&E functions. In the case of SEH, it was
unable to fully achieve any of the four actions that were exclusively under its responsibility, including some
that presented no technical or political challenges, such as carrying out feasibility studies.
c. Justification of Rating for Overall Sub-Borrower’s Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Overall, the Borrowers’ performance is deemed moderately unsatisfactory to reflect the moderately
satisfactory and moderately unsatisfactory ratings for Government’s and implementing agencies’
performance, respectively.

6. Lessons Learned
Lessons of wide general application
Natural disasters and highly visible world events can be catalysts for positive change. The operation
capitalized on the tragic window of opportunity that opened with the natural disasters that took hundreds of
lives and steep economic losses, effectively building on the momentum to develop an inter-jurisdictional
DRM strategy. Under regular circumstances, attaining the incorporation of such a wide array of institutional
actors at the federal, state, and municipal levels would have proven much more difficult. Likewise, the
operation capitalized on the heightened desired for enhancing investment coordination at the metropolitan
level given the flow of investments being channeled into the RJMR as a result of the upcoming Summer
Olympics, the Soccer World Cup, and the ongoing industrial restructuring of the region, fueled partly by the
recent discovery of oil reserves. These circumstantial events play a determinant role in the relevance and
effectiveness of lending operations.
Strong institutional leadership and implementation capacity were key determinants of the level of
achievement across the various policy areas. The areas that exhibited the greatest achievements were
the ones with a strong leadership and implementation capacity at the agency level. In this regard, it is
interesting to note that the two agencies that undertook large scale merit-based recruitment of technical staff
(i.e., INEA and ITERJ) were the strongest performers. This is both cause and effect, as strong leadership
and vision within an agency is needed to undertake a major restructuring of human resources, which, in the
case of technically weak agencies, is also a prerequisite for their sound performance. In the case of cross-
sector actions, such as the development of an inter-jurisdictional DRM strategy, the strong support from the
Vice-Governor’s office was a key factor of success.
While buy-in within individual agencies is a necessary condition for successful institutional
development, so is political leadership from top government authorities. Strong leadership from top
GoRJ authorities would have been required to effectively align priorities within the government with the goals
set for the operation. However, other political economy determinants, such as national elections, at times
took priority, compromising the cohesive delivery of the actions supported under the operation.
Ensuring the non-reversibility of tranche release conditions poses a difficult challenge. In the case of
this DPL, together with other actions, the issuing and publication of a decree authorizing the competitive
recruitment of SEASDH staff provided at the time reasonable evidence of the progress being made toward
its restructuring. The later annulment of the recruitment process after the majority of the hiring had been
completed was almost impossible to anticipate.
Engaging multiple agencies with uneven institutional capacity presents a clear challenge. While the



                                                      17
nature of some operations, such as regional development interventions, require engaging with multiple
government agencies, the implementation experience of this operation illustrates the difficulties of working
with agencies that present uneven levels of institutional maturity, technical competency, and leadership.
Metropolitan development operations require working with municipal, as well as federal entities and
programs, adding further complexity. Key policy actions under this DPL were linked to federal programs,
ranging from federal housing programs to the favela pacification programs. This articulation with federal
programs had both positive and negative implications. On the positive side, it helped created positive
synergies between this DPL and federal programs, including building a critical mass of financial incentives in
support of a consistent set of policy initiatives, which, in turn, prevented the GoRJ from spreading even
further its already limited institutional capacity. On the negative side, it resulted in some policy outcomes
being outside the GoRJ’s direct sphere of influence, thus affecting the operation’s overall effectiveness.
Working with municipalities in such type of operation is also a challenge since it may be unwise to have
conditions linked to municipal performance that are beyond the state’s span of control. The pragmatic
approach taken by this DPL, which implicitly built upon the existing level of support among municipalities for
the various policy actions, proved to be effective for this operation.
The use of complementary lending instruments has potential advantages. However, they could not be
reaped in this DPL operation due to delays in processing the TAL . As originally envisioned, advisory
services to support the implementation of actions included as conditions under this DPL were to be provided
under a TA loan supporting this and another DPL for the State of Rio. However, delays in the preparation of
the TAL operation resulted in the lack of adequate technical support for the institutional restructuring
activities that were envisioned under this DPL (e.g., SEASDH’s restructuring). While the team labored to
secure other TA support through Trust Funds, including South-South exchanges, the void left by the TAL
operation substantially hindered the overall effectiveness of this DPL. The experience of this operation
underlines how the effectiveness of a DPL can be enhanced by a TA instrument in a low institutional
capacity environment.
Sub-national operations offer great potential for cross-fertilization and economies of scale. As
illustrated by this DPL, successful innovations supported under sub-national operations can be easily
replicated in other states. Likewise, there is potential for economies of scale and homogenization by
interacting with state and federal actors simultaneously.
Project-specific lessons
There are often trade-offs between defining a thematically consistent Policy Matrix and maximizing
the accountability of implementing agencies. PDO 2.2 – Land Tenure Regularization correctly included
actions focusing on increasing the supply of serviced land for low-income housing, which clearly constitutes
an important step toward reducing further growth of informal settlements. However, the two types of
actions—i.e., land tenure regularization and provision of serviced land —were the responsibility of two
different entities—i.e., ITERJ and SHE—which exhibited uneven levels of performance. Thus, SEH’s weaker
performance pulled down the level of achievement of this PDO, somewhat obscuring ITERJ’s strong
performance.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
        See Annex 4.

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                                     18
Annex 1 - Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                        Responsibility/
               Names                                Title                     Unit
                                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Ming Zhang                                 Lead Urban Specialist             LCSUW   Co-Task Team Leader
Sameh Wahba                                    Sector Leader                 LCSSD   Co-Task Team Leader
Alessandra Campanaro                  Infrastructure Finance Special         LCSUW   Co-Task Team Leader
                                                                                         Senior Social
                                     Senior Social Development Spec
Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet                                                      LCSSO    Development Spec
                                                                                     Sr Water & Sanitation
                                       Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.
Thadeu Abicalil                                                              LCSUW           Spec.
Yaye Seynabou Sakho                         Economic Adviser                 LCSPE     Economic Adviser
                                                                                        Senior Housing
                                                Consultant
Anaclaudia Rossbach                                                          LCSUW         Specialist
                                    Senior Disaster Risk Management                   Senior Disaster Risk
Joaquin Toro                                    Specialist                   LCSUW   Management Specialist
Catarina Portelo                             Senior Counsel                  LEGLA      Senior Counsel
                                                                                      Social Development
                                                Consultant
Alberto Coelho Gomes Costa                                                   LCSSO         Specialist
                                                                                         Environmental
                                              E T Consultant
Augusto Ferreira Mendonca                                                    LCSEN         Specialist
                                                                                      Lead Environmental
                                      Lead Environmental Specialist
Garo Batmanian                                                               LCSEN         Specialist
                                                                                        Senior Financial
                                  Senior Financial Management Specialist
Joseph Mubiru Kizito                                                         LCSFM   Management Specialist
Jose Guilherme Reis                       Lead Trade Economist               PRMTR   Lead Trade Economist
                                                                                       Senior Transport
                                        Senior Transport Specialist
Georges Bianco Darido                                                        LCSTR         Specialist
Andresa Lagerborg                                                            LCSPE
Cintia Silvia Vega                     Junior Professional Associate         LCSUW    Operations Support
Eri Watanabe                                    Consultant                   LCSUW    Operations Support
Ole Hagen Jorgensen                             Economist                    LCSPE        Economist
Aires Zulian Nunes Da Conceicao                 Consultant                   LCSUW       DRM Analyst
Catherine Lynch                             Operations Officer               OPSPQ    Operations Officer
                                                                                        Senior Social
                                     Senior Social Development Spec
Fabio Pittaluga                                                              LCSSO    Development Spec
Christine Kessides                          Practice Manager                 WBIUR      Peer Reviewer
Richard Clifford                          Lead Urban Specialist              SASDU      Peer Reviewer
Alexandre Marc                      Lead Social Development Specialist        SDV       Peer Reviewer
Supervision
Alessandra Campanaro              Senior Infrastructure Finance Specialist   LCSDU    Task Team Leader
Sameh Wahba                                   Sector Manager                 LCSSD      Team member
                                                                                        Senior Water &
                                       Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.
Thadeu Abicalil                                                              LCSWS     Sanitation Spec.
                                    Senior Disaster Risk Management                   Senior Disaster Risk
Joaquin Toro                                    Specialist                   LCSDU   Management Specialist
                                                                                         Senior Social
                                     Senior Social Development Spec
Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet                                                      LCSSO    Development Spec
                                                                                      Social Development
Juan Carlos Parra                     Social Development Specialist           SDV
                                                                                           Specialist
                                                                                      Social Development
Flavia Carbonari                                Consultant                   LCSSO
                                                                                            Analyst
Anaclaudia Rossbach                             Consultant                   LCSDU      Senior Housing



                                               19
                                                                                     Specialist
                                                                                   Senior Housing
                                            Consultant
Tereza Herling                                                        LCSDU          Specialist
Monica McDonough                   Junior Professional Associate      LCSDU      Operations Support
Cecilia Zanetta                             Consultant                LCSDU       ICR Preparation

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                                  USD Thousands (including travel
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                           and consultant costs)
Lending
                          Total:                71.23                               408,092.95
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:                30.5                                262,528.56




                                           20
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable




                                      21
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                        22
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                       23
24
                                         ENGLISH TRANSLATION


                                   Government of the State of Rio de Janeiro
                                        Office of the Governor
Official Communication GG No. 358/2013

                                                                           Rio de Janeiro, June 14, 2013


        Ms. Alessandra Campanaro
        Senior Infrastructure Finance Specialist
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development – IBRD
        SCN Quadra 02 – Lote A
        Ed. Corporate Financial Center – 7th floor
        CEP 70712-900
        Brasília – DF

       Subject: Project Implementation Completion Report – Sustainable Metropolitan Urban
and Housing Development Program – PROHDUMS (DPL II)

        Dear Ms. Campanaro,

        With respect to the Project Implementation Completion Report – ICR, concerning the
closing of the execution phase of the Sustainable Metropolitan Urban and Housing Development
Program – PROHDUMS - DPL II, which was financed by a loan agreement signed on August 9,
2011 between the State of Rio de Janeiro (ERJ) and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development – IBRD in the amount of US$ 485,000,000.00, following are the comments by
the State of Rio de Janeiro concerning the results of the program.

        Under the aforementioned transaction, the ERJ sought to strengthen its provision of
public services, especially in the areas of metropolitan urban development, social interest
housing, and social assistance, more specifically the following components:

        (i)       Urban development:

                 Strengthening metropolitan management through improved integration and
                  coordination in urban development and transport;

                 Strengthening management of urban environment; and

                 Improving capacity in Disaster Risk Management.

PAL?CIO DA GUANABARA – RUA PINHEIRO MACHADO S/N – LARANJEIRAS, RIO DE JANEIRO – RJ
             CEP – 22.231-090-TELS: (55 21) 2299-5053 E (55 21) 2553-1030-FAX: (55 21) 2553-6247




                                                    25
                                   Government of the State of Rio de Janeiro
                                        Office of the Governor
         (ii)

                   Enhancing low-income housing policy and financing mechanisms; and

                   Strengthening land management and titling.

        (iii)

                   Actions to improve living conditions for the population in vulnerable social
                    settings.

I emphasize that the analysis of the achievement of the targets and indicators, as well as the
results obtained in each program, were the subject of the evaluation report of the State of Rio de
Janeiro, sent via Official Communication No. 69/2013 GAB/SEFAZ on January 31, 2013.



Lastly, although the general results of the evaluation of the ERJ, as presented in the ICR, were
moderately unsatisfactory, special note should be taken of the efforts made by all the agencies
involved in the actions called for in the financing matrix. Although some indicators did not
achieve the targets initially agreed to, the operation encouraged expansion of the implantation of
strategic public strategies and the provision of services in several essential areas, thus serving as a
framework for future contracting that would make possible the continuity of measures directed to
investments in areas of development and infrastructure.



I take this opportunity to reiterate to Your Excellency my assertions of high esteem and
consideration.



Very truly yours,

                                               [signature]

                                          SERGIO CABRAL

                                                Governor

PAL?CIO DA GUANABARA – RUA PINHEIRO MACHADO S/N – LARANJEIRAS, RIO DE JANEIRO – RJ
             CEP – 22.231-090-TELS: (55 21) 2299-5053 E (55 21) 2553-1030-FAX: (55 21) 2553-6247




                                                    26
Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                         27
Annex 6. Achievement of Program Development Objectives

       Policy Area I - Planning and managing territorial growth in the Rio Metropolitan Region
Policy Objective
   This DPL provided support to the GoRJ’s objectives of: i) ensuring that future urban growth meet the
    spatial requirements brought about by economic and structural changes provide a higher quality of life
    in the RJMR, and protect the region’s sensitive natural environment and mitigate disaster r isks.
Policy Framework
   The Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro (RJMR) is the country’s second largest metropolitan area
    and includes 19 municipalities. It dominates the region and is home to 53 percent of the area’s 11.7
    million people. The ongoing structural transformation of the metropolitan economy and the associated
    demographic growth are increasing demand for infrastructure and amenities. In this context, the
    establishment of a metropolitan governance framework in Rio is of critical importance, particularly in
    view of the fast pace of economic growth currently been experiencing. Metropolitan-wide planning and
    coordination are required for sound urban development, including housing, transport, environmental
    protection, and disaster risk management.
   Some of the specific challenges included:
     The lack of effective area-wide institutions to plan and oversee urban development.
     A fragmented mass transport city within the RKMR, with roughly half of the RJMR’s 20 million daily
          trips being on multiple modes of public transportation operated by a wide array of public and private
          operators.
     The need for sound environmental regulations as a crucial element of urban development policy in
          view of the region’s unique and fragile environment.
     RJMR’s susceptibility to natural disasters and their high costs in terms of lives and the state’s
          economy.
PDO 1.a - Strengthen metropolitan management through improved integration and coordination in
              urban development and transport
Major Actions Implemented
   Policy dialogue – Several events were supported under this DPL that have contributed toward building
    awareness of the importance of developing a metropolitan perspective and providing a vision of various
    institutional mechanisms for metropolitan coordination. Among the most important activities were an
    international seminar on metropolitan governance issues, study tours to North America and Asia, and
    ongoing internal workshops exploring various aspects of the metropolitan agenda ( Diálogos
                       6
    Metropolitanos). Trust funds and other sources of funding identified by the Bank team were critical in
    supporting these activities.
   Enhanced coordination of public investments in the RJMR – The GORJ has strengthened its
    coordination on metropolitan issues through the establishment of a Directive Committee for Metropolitan
    Strategy headed by the Vice-Governor and supported by a Technical Working Committee (TWC), with
    representation from the Secretariats of Public Works, Housing, Social Assistance, Transport,
    Environment, Planning and Finance. The mandates of the Directive Committee and the TWC include: i)
    engaging in policy dialogues and establishing partnerships with the municipalities about metropolitan
    planning, management, and investment issues; ii) undertaking the review of the State Complementary
    Law No. 87 of 1997 in consultation with the municipalities and other stakeholders, and drafting a reform
    proposal for institutional arrangements for metropolitan management, including revisions to the Law;
    and iii) overseeing and monitoring the implementation of metropolitan-wide investment programs, such
    as the Arco Expressway and other programs with federal financing. The TWC has met on a monthly
    basis since May 2011
   Steps toward metropolitan integration – Several actions have been implemented that gradually built
    toward a more integrated approach toward metropolitan planning and service delivery, including:



6
  For a detailed description of the activities carried out in this area, see Palladini, E. (2011), “Creating More
Livable Cities: The Case of the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Area,? En Breve, December 2011 Number 172,
The World Bank, Washington, D.C.




                                                       28
       For the first time, a medium-term metropolitan strategy and program was included in the State’s
        2012-2015 Multi-year Development Plan (Plano Plurianual – PPA). In collaboration with the
        municipalities, the GoRJ included a metropolitan development and strengthening program in the
        medium-term plan and multi-year budget and investment plans.
     Several of the planning instruments being developed at the state level now have metropolitan
        focus.
     The GORJ created the Single Ticket (Bilhete Unico) to improve the convenience and affordability of
        public transportation in the RJMR by integrating tariffs for intercity transportation.
Key outcomes
     Policy dialogue – There is now greater awareness of the need for metropolitan governance and
      various alternative models. However, it remains confined at the technical level within the state. The
      challenge is to build this support among the political leadership. Medium-term sustainability will depend
      on building political demand for metropolitan management on the part of municipalities.
     Enhanced coordination of public investments in the RJMR – There have been some concrete
      actions toward enhancing the coordination of public investments at the metropolitan level, including:
       The State’s 2012-2015 PPA includes geographically delimited programs, targets, and budget for
           the RJMR. This is expected to significantly enhance the state’s ability and incentives to plan,
           implement, and monitor the progress of an integrated metropolitan program.
       The Directive Committee is coordinating metropolitan-focused development activities among
           various state agencies, including the development of the Transport Master Plan, which is currently
           being updated, and the Social Housing Plan, which is currently under preparation, as well as the
           implementation of the Arco Corridor Transport Plan.
       The Metropolitan Arco Master Plan has been completed and is under implementation,. The
           construction of this corridor will connect the main growth poles in the metropolitan area and the
           Itaguai Port, greatly enhancing accessibility and mobility within the region.
       As only one of the anticipated three state plans with a metropolitan focus has been completed,
           resulting in the partial achievement of the corresponding target. Also, the alignment of planning
           instruments with a metropolitan focus could to be further enhanced by, for example, aligning the
           geographic boundaries of the sub-regions defined by the various agencies within the RJMR and
           ensuring that municipal planning instruments take into consideration the metropolitan plans.
  Tariff integration for intercity mass transport –This operation has contributed toward enhancing
   public transport governance and services through improved quality and affordability by integrating tariffs
   for intercity transportation (i.e., buses, metro, suburban rail, and ferries). Riders can now buy a single
   ticket (Bilhete Único) that can be used on several modes to complete a trip within a certain period of
   time. This ticket costs less than the sum of the individual tickets that would have to be purchased
   otherwise, thereby significantly benefiting low-income riders who, as research shows, take the longest
   trips with the most transfers.
    The Bilhete Único is being successfully implemented, with an average of roughly 515,500
        passengers per day during weekdays and a maximum number of passengers hovering over the
                        7
        520,000 mark. This represents a substantial achievement, almost meeting the 550,000 target
        specified at appraisal.
    There is evidence showing significant social impact of the newly implemented Single Ticket. For
        example, household savings in transport are being redirected toward food and housing. Likewise,
        since employers subsidize the travel of their employees, the Single Ticket has increased
        employability within the RJMR.
    The RJMR Single Ticket was chosen the Best Transportation Program in Latin America by the
                                                               8
        International Association of Public Transport in 2001.
PDO 1.b – Strengthen management of urban environment

Major Actions Implemented
     Institutional strengthening - The GoRJ strengthened its capacity to protect environmental assets by
      strengthening the State Environmental Institute’s (INEA), including expanding its human resources and
      financial capacity. Specifically:
       INEA’s technical capacity has been substantially strengthe ned by, among other measures, the
           merit-based recruitment of about 240 additional environmental professionals in 2009, accounting
           for roughly 20 percent of INEA’s personnel.



7
    Data reported for the week of December 3-7, 2012.
8
    59th Congress and Exhibition of Mobility Transport in Cities, held in Dubai in April 2011.


                                                        29
         In addition, legislation was enacted to ensure that INEA has designated funding by earmarking
                                           9
          pollution charges to its budget.
         There has been a substantial increase in INEA’s direct annual investment budget through other
          State Environmental Funds (i.e., FECAM, FUNBIO, FUNDHRI), from R$62.5 million in 2009 to
          R$151.9 million in 2012—a substantial increase equivalent to 2.4 times but slightly below the
          R$170 million target.

                 Table 1. INEA’s execution of state environmental funds – 2009-2012
    TOTAL (FMA, FECAM, FUNDRHI)          2009              2011                  2012
          Budgeted for INEA              R$ 84,701,479      R$160,804,623             R$ 205,839,986
                                                                                      R$151,919,608
               Executed                  R$ 62,447,323      R$175,937,772

Source: INEA (2012).
   Improved watershed management - The GoRJ has taken important steps toward enhancing and
    decentralizing watershed management, including:
     Instituting a fee for all water rights holders. Recently enacted state legislation allows INEA to
         charge user fees to the State Sanitation Company and water rights holders for the water that they
              10
         use.
     Transferring collected fees to watershed management organizations to undertake water protection
         activities. State Law No. 5.639 of 2010 authorized INEA to transfer these funds to the state
         watershed committees through nonprofit entities called delegatárias, which, in turn, are responsible
                                                           11
         water resources management and protection.
   Enhanced environmental licensing – Several actions have been carried out to ensure a rigorous and
    timely licensing process, including:
     Required environmental licensing - State Decree 42.159 of 2009 mandated that most economic
         activities—even those with minor impacts—be subject to environmental licensing, guaranteeing
         that economic activities be under the control of environmental authorities.
     Decentralized licensing - To avoid adding additional cost and time to the process of starting new
         small businesses and overtaxing INEA’s capacity with a large number of applications for relatively
         small activities, the GoRJ has delegated responsibility for low-impact licensing to municipal
         authorities. An agreement between the state government and individual municipalities established
         the activities that can be licensed at the municipal level.
     Quality assurance mechanisms - The state has established stringent criteria to be met by
         municipalities wishing to issue environmental licenses.
Main Outcomes
   Institutional strengthening - Having a technically strong, adequately funded environmental regulatory
    agency was a pre-requisite for sound management environmental management of the RJMR. INEA is
    now well prepared to fulfill its strategic role in the RJMR’s development agenda.
     INEA’s stronger institutional capacity is illustrated by its improved execution capacity, which
         increased from R$64 to R$152 million between 2009 and 2012. (see Table 1). INEA’s executed
         budget is expected to continue to increase in 2013, as INEA begins transferring water fees
         revenues under FUNDRHI to the newly established decentralized water management entities.
   Improved watershed management – Since 2009, nine watershed management organizations have
    been established in the state (see Table 2). Out of them, eight are now fully operational, having signed
    management contracts with delegatarias to undertake water resources protection activities, including
    reclamation. The Bahia de Guanabara is the only water management organization that is not yet fully
    operational as it has opted for creating its own technical/executive branch, which is a more complex
    procedure. as opposed to contracting with an already existing entity,
     Decentralized, basin-level watershed management is considered a best practice, as it has the
         potential to enhance accountability and better capture the needs of end-users and other
         stakeholders.



9
   State Laws 5.438 (April 17, 2009) and 5.629 (December 29, 2009).
10
    State Law No. 4.247 of 2003, amended by State Decree No. 41.974 of 2009.
11
    As watershed committees lack executive powers and legal personhood and, as a result, cannot open
bank accounts, hire staff or enter into contracts). Under the new legal framework, the can do so through the
delegatarias, which are entities with “executive? capabilities to collect the water fees and carry out watershed
management interventions using the water fees as their source of funding.


                                                      30
       One of the newly established delegatarias is for the Guandu River basin, which now has a
        management contract in place with the Guandu watershed management organization comprising
        15 municipalities. It has the potential of improving management of the important body of water in
        the RJMR, which provides 80 percent of the region’s water supply and that is endangered by
        pollution from uncontrolled urban growth.
  Enhanced environmental licensing – The state and the municipalities have strengthened the legal
   framework and procedures for the effective decentralization of environmental licensing for activities with
   local impacts. Specifically:
    In 2009, INEA processed 90 percent of all licensing applications and reduced decreased the
        backlog of pending applications by 50 percent.
    Forty-two out of the 92 municipalities in the state are already issuing environmental licenses —an
        average of 2,500 to 3,000 licenses per year. INEA is still responsible for issuing licenses that affect
        water bodies, deforestation, and non-local environmental impacts. The criteria to determine local
        impact that has been used by INEA is consistent with federal regulations, which were issued after
        INEA’s decentralized licensing system was designed. It is one of the few states that did not have to
        adapt its licensing system to the newly issued regulations.
PDO 1.c – Improve capacity in Disaster Risk Management (DRM)
Key Actions Taken
   Establishment of an inter-jurisdictional DRM program – In April 2010, the GoRJ created the Morar
    Seguro Program, which includes financial incentives for municipalities to carry out DRM activities. It
    includes: i) a housing program that gives priority to people living in risk areas; ii) a social rental program
    for families affected by disaster, and iii) technical assistance and financial incentives for municipalities to
    establish the boundaries of risk areas.
    The Morar Seguro Program has received strong attention on the part of state authorities. It is
    coordinated by the Vice-Governor, in partnership with municipalities, a cross-sector working group that
    includes the Governor’s Office and several state secretariats (i.e., Public Works, Health and Civil
    Defense, Social Assistance and Human Rights, Housing, and Environment) and flagship federal
    programs.
   Identification of hydrological and geological risks at the state level – One of the new initiatives
    under the state’s DRM strategy aims to strengthen technic al expertise in geology and geotechnical
    engineering, and provide guidance for the coordinated management of state actions regarding geo-
    hazards in order to focus the efforts of different stakeholders on reducing the mortality rate and material
    damages caused by landslides.
   Implementation of a more effective early warning system and contingency plans. The flood alert
    system was created in 2008 under the Program for Flood Prevention and Environmental Control
    (Programa de Prevenção e Controle Ambiental de Inundações) approved in the 2008-2011 PPA. The
    system issues low, medium, and high flood risk alerts and is directly linked to the Civil Defense system.
    The system sends notifications every 15 minutes to the central processing unit, which, in turn, sends
    daily reports to Civil Defense, municipalities, and other state hydro-meteorological institutions.
   Establishment of clear policies for reconstruction that include disaster risk components. After
    the intense rains in the first quarter of 2010, which led to devastating landslides in Rio de Janeiro, the
    state government realized that there is a need for clear ex-ante reconstruction policies following the
    events. The government is preparing a comprehensive reconstruction policy that will include damage
    assessments and the collection of data from affected persons to clearly establish who will receive
    benefits. Key activities will include: (a) a proposal for a state reconstruction policy; (b) mechanisms to
    identify and cadaster those affected; (c) the identification of potential short- and long-term shelters; and
    (d) mechanisms for post-disaster housing.
Main outcomes
   Establishment of an inter-jurisdictional DRM program – Prior to the establishment of the Morar
    Seguro Program, SEASDH lacked a disaster intervention methodology as well as a strategy to provide
    agile support to disaster victims. Customarily, the GoRJ would transfer resources to the municipalities,
    which, in turn, would be responsible for the payment of benefits. Designed as a inter-jurisdictional
    partnership involving the three levels of government (i.e., federal, state and municipal), the Morar
    Seguro program is now and represent substantial progress in the GoRJ’s readiness to support disaster
    victims. Some of the characteristics include:
     The social rental program is operational, with 115,767 people having received benefits as of
         September 2012.
     The state funds allocated to the program have experienced a sustained increased, with a budget
         allocation of R$44.187 million in 2011, R$51.3 million in 2012 and R$61.6 million in 2013.



                                                        31
       The GoRJ now has in place the necessary institutional and logistical scaffolding to disburse funds
        within 30 days of the disaster. This was the result of a series of inter-agency agreements at various
        levels of government, including the utilization of the cadastre of beneficiaries and electronic
        payment cards utilized at the federal level (i.e., Bolsa Familia).
   Identification of hydrological and geological risks at the state level - One of key tasks was the
    creation a geological landslide susceptibility maps, including:
     State-level geological landslide susceptibility maps have been developed for 17 of the 19
        municipalities in the RJMR—exceeding the original 75 percent target. The remaining two
        municipalities are expected to be mapped by June 2013.
     A diagnosis was conducted in 2010, including field visits to 68 municipalities. Fifteen out of 17
        municipalities with significant exposure to landslide risk have been mapped for imminent risk,
        resulting in the identification of over 16,000 inhabitants living in high risk-prone areas. The target,
        which called for ten municipalities, has been amply exceeded.
     By June 2013, Rio is expected to be the first state to have geological landslide susceptibility maps
        for all the municipalities in the state and imminent risk maps for all high-risk municipalities.
   Early alarm system
     The state has implemented an effective monitoring and real time alarm system for flooding. It
        currently covers approximately 5 million people in 21 municipalities, covering the more risk-prone
        areas. Thus, the 4.9 million target for this indicator was exceeded.
     The system is available online (http://inea.infoper.net/ and sends out text and twitter notifications
        when risk is high to registered users.
           Table 3. Number of people and municipalities with early alert system – 2009-2012

                             2009      2010      2011      2012       Target
            Municipalities     7         7        10        21
             Population    3,052,879 3,052,879 3,683,231 4,965,678 4.9 millions
         Source: INEA (2012)
                                     Policy Area 2. Affordable housing
Policy Framework
Policy Objective
   This DPL provided support to the GoRJ’s objective of promoting the supply of affordable housing with
    reasonable access and quality to meet growing new demand in the RJMR, while at the same time
    significantly reducing the existing housing deficit. In partic ular, the government’s aim was to help the
    poorest (families earning up to 3 minimum wages per month) to gain access to housing solutions.
Policy Framework
   The GoRJ’s low-income housing strategy adopted a segmented market approach that offers
    differentiated measures according to income group as a means to provide the necessary support for
    households with limited income to gain access to adequate housing in line with housing policies at the
    national level.
   Some of the main challenges included:
     The lack of access to affordable, well-serviced, and adequately located land, which was one the
         main constraints on the supply of low-income housing.
     The burden of onerous land development and building regulations that increase the cost of land per
         unit, as well as high transaction costs of development permits.
     The need to strengthen ITERJ as a pre-requisite for scaling up land tenure regularization.
PDO 2.a - Enhance low-income housing policy and financing mechanisms
Major Actions Taken
   Land donations for My Home, My Life (Minha Casa, Minha Vida – MCMV) Federal Housing
    Program – Under the MCMV Program, the state is piloting a new model for low-income housing
    provision, in which it donates land and supports infrastructure improvements as needed, while
    municipalities provides infrastructure, and private developers build the housing with federal government
    subsidies.
   Partnerships with municipalities for low-income housing – The GoRJ is seeking to expand
    collaboration with municipalities in the RJMR to meet housing demand for households with an income of
    less than three minimum wages, including establishing regulatory measures and development
    incentives for building affordable housing on vacant land, including density bonuses, the application of
    the ZEIS (social interest housing zone) or AUIS (areas of housing of urban special interest) zoning, and
    relaxed development regulations.
   Improve the governance mechanisms of the State Housing Fund as a dedicated funding for low-


                                                      32
    income housing. To ensure funding for low-income housing, the Management Council of the State
    Housing Fund was established in 2009 and a new strategy for FEHIS’ operation was defined.
   Condominium management model - The GoRJ still manages a significant stock of social housing
    units, but lacks a system to transfer ownership of the property as well as the management of common
    areas (condominium). This situation creates a significant burden for the state, which must maintain the
    buildings and common spaces so that they do not become deteriorated. The GoRJ intended to test a
    condominium self-management model in Complexo de Batan, which has 15,000 residents.
Main Outcomes
   Land donations for MCMV Federal Housing Program – The GoRJ signed an agreement with Caixa,
    Brazil’s public development bank, to undertake a major effort to promote the MCMV program in the
    state, enacted enabling legislation to provide land donations.
     The GoRJ has already submitted 13 areas to for donation to the Caixa, 12 of which are in the
         RJMR. A call for proposals from private developers has already been completed for nine of these
         12 tracks of land, with an estimated capacity of 13,074 housing units. A total of 3,749 housing units
         are currently under construction.
     Five tracks of land were expected to be donated during the DPL lifespan. The process has been
         completed for three of them (i.e., Frei Caneca, Cidade de Deus, and Urucânia) and the other two
         (i.e., Costa Barros, and Antares) are still under Caixa’s review.
     While the number of housing units being produced under this program is still very small relative to
         an estimated low-income housing deficit of 372,246 units in the RJMR (i.e., up to 3 minimum
         wages), it has the potential to increase the supply of affordable housing in the medium term.
   Partnerships with municipalities for low-income housing
     The GoRJ signed a cooperation agreement with the municipality of Niterói to support a housing
         program benefiting 5,000 families with an income less than 3 minimum wages, victims of the recent
         landslides in Morro do Bumba, and other areas in the municipality. This agreement represents a
         joint effort by the state, the municipality, and the federal government to establish housing
         alternatives for people living in high risk areas. The state has made a financial contribution of R$80
         million, with the municipality contributing R$4 million and the federal government providing
         subsidies through the MCMV program.
     As a result of other agreements that were subsequently signed with other municipalities in the
         Região Serrana, three housing complexes have been completed and delivered to victims from
         Morro do Bumba in Niterói.
   State Housing Fund – The GoRJ has taken steps toward securing financing for low-income housing
    and enhancing the governance of the state’s housing fund, including:
     The Management Council for the State Housing has been constituted according to the state law,
         with wide representation from the all major stakeholders in low-income housing. It has 12
         members, including: four representatives from the relevant state secretariats (i.e., public works,
         housing, land institute and social action); three representatives of social organizations related to
         housing; one representative from the municipalities; one representative from private sector
         associations; one representative from non-government organizations, and one from workers and
                                             th
         employees associations. The 12 member is a representative of the State Secretary of Housing,
         who acts as the Council's president.
     In September 2011, the GoRJ approved a new strategy for FEHIS, including use of FEHIS funds
         and strategic priorities for low-income families (0-3 minimum wages). FEHIS new strategy was
         subsequently incorporated into the latest State Housing Plan.
   Condominium management model – This activity was not implemented as envisioned. As mentioned
    earlier, the Batan housing complex is still one of the most violent favelas in Rio, which provided
    unfavorable conditions to test the condo management model. Instead, the SEH identified existing
    housing complexes exhibiting better than average maintenance of common areas, Dom Jaime Barros
    Câmara in particular. The aspects that were identified as contributing toward effective self-management
    were linked to a former program that supported the development of residents’ associations. SEH is
    considering adopting a similar condominium management system, but no formal actions have been
    taken so far.
PDO 2.b - Strengthen land management and titling
Key Actions Taken
   Enhanced framework for land tenure regularization – In 2009, the state enacted legislation enabling
    the donation of state land to low-income families that occupied it, making these donations tax-
    exempted. The new legislation constitutes a major breakthrough, as it has eliminated important barriers
    to land tenure regularization.
   Institutional strengthening of ITERJ - The state has supported ITERJ’s strengthening, allocating



                                                      33
    resources to double its capacity in the area of land regularization. Among the various actions that were
    carried out were a major overhaul of processes, the tertiarization of cadaster and topography
    processes, and the simplification of administrative procedures required for conferring a title. In addition,
    ITERJI was provided with state-of-the art physical facilities.
   Technical assistance to municipalities on land tenure regularization – ITERJ has successfully
    implemented a pilot project providing technical assistance to municipalities to strengthen their capacity
    for land tenure regularization. The first pilot project was carried out in Cantagalo where the
    administrative process for regularization through donation and titling to resident families has already
    taken place.
   Enabling access to land and infrastructure services - The operation supported the SEH’s intentions
    to play a more active role in ensuring the supply of serviced land for low-income housing as a way to
    attracting private developers.
Main Outcomes
   ITERJ’s institutional strengthening – ITERJ has received the needed support to drastically enhance
    its performance, including:
     The agency's executed budget increased from R$9 million in 2009 to R$20 million in 2012, with a
         R$68 million budget allocation for 2013. Likewise, its execution ability has also increased, as
         illustrated by the increase in the ratio of budgeted versus executed resources, which increased
         from 65 to 80 percent between 2009 and 2012.
     In 2011, ITERJ carried out the merit-based recruitment of 104 technical positions, equivalent to 20
         percent of its technical staff. Of these, 98 candidates have been officially selected and, as of April
         2013, 87 had already been confirmed in their posts. An added advantage of merit-based selected
         technical staff is that they cannot be transferred to other state agencies.
     As a result of the additional technical and financial resources and new land regularization
         legislation and operational procedures, ITERJ was able to process 10,238 titles in 2012, of which
         8,188 have already been approved at the municipal level. This is a remarkable achievement
         considering that the 2009-2011 average was only 1,249 titles per year. ITERJ’s implementation
         capacity is expected to continue to grow progressively to reach an annual production of 40,000
         titles.
   Technical assistance to municipalities on land tenure regularization
     It is estimated that the pilot project benefited over 10,000 people living in the parcels that were
         regularized. In accordance with the new legislation, beneficiaries were exempted from paying
         transfer taxes.
     The pilot experience in the Pavão Pavãozinho / Cantagalo Complex served to test new operational
         and administrative procedures reflecting the newly approved legislation, which clearly assigns
         ITERJ the authority to approve the donation of state land for social housing purposes without any
         additional legal instrument.
   Enabling access to land and infrastructure services – As part of its efforts to ensure an adequate
    supply of serviced land, SEH was expected to identify potentially adequate areas to implement large
    scale housing developments, conduct feasibility studies, and develop a new integrated housing
    development model for about 10,000 to 15,000 families
     Feasibility studies - INEA has conducted environmental feasibility studies to assess the suitability of
         four land areas in the metropolitan region that could potentially hold more than 130,000 housing
         units. SEH’s, however, has not made any significant progress in this regard and is planning to
         perform these studies under the upcoming TAL, which is still under preparation.
     Integrated housing development model – SEH is in the process of defining a model for
         Manguinhos, a large track of land with a central location that was recently expropriated by the
         Governor. However, the definition of the integrated housing model to be applied for this area is still
         at a preliminary stage.
                                       Policy Area 3. Social Development
Policy Framework
Policy Objective
   In the area of social development, this DPL provided support to the GoRJ’s core objective of improving
    the quality of life in favelas to ensure that residents enjoy similar opportunities for development and
    access to public services as those living in the rest of the state.
Policy Framework
   While social indicators of education, health, poverty and inequality in the RJMR had been improving in
    recent decades, these improvements had taken place at a lower rate than expected, lagging behind the
    advances made by some other Brazilian states.



                                                      34
  To confront this challenge, the GoRJ’s aime d to enhance the provision of social programs to the low-
   income urban population under the coordination of SEASDH, striving for a more effective, transparent
   and integrated approach.
  Some of the main challenges included:
    The need to reassert the state’s presence in the favelas, as crime and violence in these areas
        posed the most significant barrier to development and social integration.
    The lack of integration and coordination between social policies and programs managed by
        different agencies at different levels of government, as well as with NGOs and private sector
        interventions.
    Gaps in social services for specific population groups, such as youth involved in serious crime and
        violence.
    The need to enhance SEASDH’s institutional capacity and establish strong planning and monitoring
        and evaluation systems as a prerequisite for improving the provision of social services.
PDO 3.a - Improve living conditions in most vulnerable social settings
Key Actions Taken
   Social Pacification Police Units Program - UPP Social – The GoRJ has launched the UPP Social
    Program to institutionalize the territorial integration of social interventions in favelas. The program has
    an innovative and multi-dimensional approach to integrate favelas to the rest of the city by rolling out a
    comprehensive menu of social support programs following pacification interventions by the military
    police. The UPP Social operates with complete independence from the UPP Program,12 having as a
    main objective to facilitate the territorial coordination and monitoring of programs from government,
    private sector, and civil society that can support projects contributing to integrate these slum areas with
    the rest of the city.
   SEASDH’s restructuring - SEASDH was created in 2007 to absorb three former secretariats, which
    were never integrated into a fully coherent entity. Some actions were undertaken in preparation to
    SEASDH’s restructuring, including:
     A strategic planning process was conducted to refine the agency’s overall mission, goals, and
         objectives and develop an action plan. An internal diagnosis was carried out to identify the main
         operative bottlenecks and challenges, particularly in the attainment of social integration objectives.
     A new organizational structure was defined, based on five strategic, cross-cutting areas of work to
         guide the agency’s activities according to horizontal organization principles. This constitutes a
         drastic departure from the previous silos-based organizational structure and is expected to
         encourage coordination and operational integration.
     Authorization of the merit-based hiring of 95 personnel to increase the capacity of SEASDH, the
         M&E unit in particular (Decree No. 43,294 of November 11, 2011). As noted below, this action was
         later reversed.
   Strengthening of SEASDH’s M&E systems – Most SEASDH programs lacked a basic M&E
    framework, which seriously hindered the agency’s ability to produce timely and reliable information to
    inform planning, assess performance, and modify interventions accordingly, Thus, a key component of
    SEASDH’s restructuring was the establishment of a M&E unit as well as the development and
    implementation of agency-wide M&E protocols and practices. Some of the actions that were include:
     Establishment of a standardized M&E protocol for SEASDH programs, which was formally adopted
         under Decree No. 43,217 of October 3, 2011.
     An M&E Unit has been created within SEASDH’s organizational structured and is now operationa l
         and two staff members have been appointed. An annual budget of R$600,000 was allocated to the
         unit in 2012,.
     As mentioned above, the M&E protocols were formally adopted in 2011. The M&E system is being
         developed, including M&E methodologies, procedures, manuals, as well as implementation plan.
     Three programs under SEASDH are being subject to randomized impact evaluations. One of them
         is for the PROTEJO program (Programa de Proteção de Jovens em Territorio Vulnerável ), a
         federal protection program for at-risk youth managed by SEASDH.
Main Outcomes
   Social Pacification Police Units Program - UPP Social – The UPP Social Program was hosted under
    the SEASDH until December 2010 and was transferred at the municipal level at beginning of January
    2011. Some of the main outcomes include:


12
   The UPP is a law enforcement and social services program pioneered in the state of Rio de Janeiro in
2008, which aims at reclaiming favelas controlled by gangs of drug dealers (Wikipedia, 2013;
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pacifying_Police_Unit).


                                                      35
         The GoRJ then created a similar program at the state level—so-called Peace Territories (Território
          da Paz)—to complement the municipal level UPP program—now called UPP Social Carioca.
       The Peace Territory and UPP Social Carioca Programs have been implemented in 17 and 24
          favelas in the city of Rio de Janeiro, respectively. They constitute an important step toward
          developing the institutional scaffolding needed to support it, including coordination mechanisms
          within the various state agencies and between the federal, state and the municipal levels of
          government.
       While it is difficult to isolate the impact of these programs from that of the pacification itself, as well
          as from PAC investments targeted to these areas, there are indications that beneficiary favelas are
          gradually showing signs of improvement, such as a reduction in the number of violent crimes and
          deaths, an increase in the reporting of crimes that before went unreported, such as theft, domestic
          violence, and rape.
       According to several studies, the impact of these interventions goes well beyond a drop in crime
          and includes, among others, improvement in health and education indicators, higher birth rates,
          housing appreciation, and expanded access to water and electricity. Moreover, these positive
                                                                                                               13
          impacts spill beyond the pacified favelas to affect the surrounding areas and the city as a whole.
     SEASDH’s restructuring – Although SEASDH’s new organizational structure was not officially adopted
      as called for under the Policy matrix, progress was made toward enhancing the agency’s transversal
      coordination and integration and its overall institutional capacity. Unfortunately, some of the progress
      achieved was subsequently reversed. Specifically:
       At the state level, an Executive Committee for Social Policies (Comitê Executivo de Políticas
          Sociais – CEPS) has been established to enhance cross-agency coordination and the overall
          effectiveness of the state’s agencies in pacified territories, This Committee is constituted by 13
          state secretariats under SEASDH’s leadership.
       Within SEASDH, a Technical Committee for Institutional Integration ( Câmara Técnica de
          Integração Institucional) has been established to enhance inter-agency coordination. Specifically,
          this committee includes the different units in SEASDH that are responsible for the implementation
          of federal and state-level programs targeting specific groups, such as children, youth, persons with
          disabilities, women, racial and ethnic groups.
       In addition, territorial plans have been developed for all favelas with Territórios da Paz / UPP Social
          to coordinate sectoral, social and urban initiatives from the state and municipal levels.
       A new organizational structure has been developed, and roughly 75 percent of the so-called
          Emergency Restructuring has been implemented. SEASDH’s activities have been substantially
          consolidated, resulting in a significant reduction in their number—from 90 to 42 activities. A final
          restructuring is planned for 2013 with support from the TAL operation. Although the new
          organizational structure was expected to be formally adopted by end-2012, its approval has been
          delayed due to a new change in the agency’s leadership.
       As mentioned earlier, the merit-based recruitment process of 95 technical staff, 57 of which had
          already been formally hired, was later declared invalid due to a technicality in the recruitment
          process. While SEASDH authorities have expressed their intention to repeat the merit-base
          selection process, this constitutes a serious step backward given the agency ’s institutional
          weakness. This reversal also represents a serious step backwards in the context of this DPL, as it
          was one of the key actions taken into consideration in assessing progress toward SEASDH’s
                                                                       nd
          restructuring, which was conditions for the release of the 2 tranche.
     Strengthening of SEASDH’s M&E system – Progress has been made toward enhancing M&E of
      social programs under SEASDH’s responsibility, although more modestly than anticipated. Specifically:
       An inventory of the M&E framework of all the programs within SEASDH’s sphere of control has
          been completed. The M&E unit now centralizes the information and monitors progress regularly.
          This constitutes an improvement, as in the past there was no centralized information on the
          performance of individual programs.
       Three programs are being subject to randomized impact evaluations.
       Although an M&E unit has been established within SEASDH, the integrated, agency-wide M&E
          system that was originally envisioned is still under preparation. It is important to note that, as the
          development of the M&E system was originally envisioned to be financed under the TAL. As the
          preparation of this operation took longer than expected, the activities conducted so far were
          financed with SEASDH’s own resources.




13
     According to various studies quoted in the Borrower’s Final Report (February, 2013).


                                                        36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Estado do Rio de Janeiro (2013), Relatório de Conclusão - Programa de Habitação e
    Desenvolvimento Urbano Metropolitano Sustentável – PROHDUMS – DPL II, January 31,
    2013, GECAR/SUCAR/SUBFIN/SEFAZ, Rio de Janeiro.
INEA (2012), INEA – 2 Anos: Novas Ideias, Novas Atitudes Pelo Desenvolvimento Sustentável,
    Instituto Estadual do Ambiente - INEA, Rio de Janeiro State Government, Rio de Janeiro.
Palladini, E. (2011), “Creating More Livable Cities: The Case of the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan
    Area,? En Breve, December 2011 Number 172, LAC Urban Development and Water Unit,
    The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2009-2013), Documents in Project’s Electronic File, including Credit Agreement,
    Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports, Project Financial
    Assessments, and Project Procurement Assessments; Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2011), Brazil - Country Assistance Strategy Document 2012-2015, Report No:
    63731-BR, September 21, 2011, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2011), Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Urban and Housing Development Policy Loan,
    Program Document, Report No. 58227- BR, February 14, 2011, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2008), Brazil - Country Assistance Strategy Document 2008-2015, Report No:
    42677-BR, May 1, 2008, Washington, D.C.

                               Meetings Conducted during ICR Mission
Secretariat of Finance
Pablo Villarim Concalves
Secretariat of Public Works
Paulo Costa
Vicente de Paula Loureiro
Secretariat of Housing
Reginaldo Balieiro Diniz
Maria Cecilia Bodas
Maria Clara Borges de Menezes
Marcia Lana Guimaraes
SEACDH
Luis Gustavo Vieira Martins
Enzo Mayer Tessarolo
INEA
Marilene de Oliveira Ramos
Rosa Maria Formiga Johnsson
Silvia Marie Ikemoto
ITERJ
Silvia Sprei
Madlene Orterio
Mayumi Sone
Other institutions
Claudio Amaral, DRM-RJ
Sergio Muros, Transport Secretariat
Andrezza Knauer, Coordinator Bilhete Unico, Transport Secretariat
Eduarda La Rocque, President, Instituto Pereira Passos
Sergio Guimaraes Ferreira, Instituto Pereira Passos
Ruth Jurberg, EMOP
Rossana Bastos, SEDRAP
Daniele Marino Lelles, Casa Civil
Juliana Azevedo Cruz, State Secretariat
Daniel G. Gaudencio Moreira, Supervia
Paulo Targa, Supervia



                                                   37
World Bank
Alessandra Campanaro, TTL
Sameh Wahba
Juan Carlos Parra Osorio
Thadeu Abicalil
Joaquin Toro
Monica McDonough
Flabia Carbonari
Anaclaudia Rossbach, Consultant
Tereza Herling, Consultant
Jerome Klink, Consultant
Luis Valverde Salandía, Consultant




                                     38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 38295
                        R.B. DE    GUYANA                French Guiana (Fr.)
                       VENEZUELA
                                            SURINAME
 COLOMBIA
                                                                           A T L A NT I C
                                                                                O CE A N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Governador
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Valadares
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E S P ? R I T O                        S A N T O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To Governador                                                   To Vitória
                                               BRAZIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Valadares

   PERU
                                                   BRAS?LIA
                        BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Varre-Sai                                                       To Vitória

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Governador                     Porciúncula
                                    PARAGUAY                                    Area of Map                                                                                                                                                                                                            Valadares
               CHILE

 P A C IF IC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Natividade                                                                       To Vitória
 OC E A N
                                                                          A T L A NT I C
                         A RG ENTI NA
                                                                               O CE A N

                                         URUGUAY
                                                                                                                                                                    M I N A S                                     G E R A I S                                                                                                                                                                     Bom Jesus do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Laje do Muriaé                                     Itaperuna            Itabapoana                                         Rio I t abapoana




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              São José de Ubá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To Belo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Horizonte                                         Miracema
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Italva                                                      São Francisco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                de Itabapoana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cardoso Moreira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Santo Antônio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        de Pádua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Rio M                                                           ATLANTIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cambuci




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    iaé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        aíba do S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Par                                                                                      OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rio




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To Belo                                                               Aperibé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Horizonte                                                                                                                                                                                               São João
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Itaocara               São Fidélis                                                                                   da Barra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Campos dos
                                                                                                                                                                              To Belo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Goytacazes
                                                                                                                                                                             Horizonte




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               São Sebastião
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Carmo                                        do Alto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Santa Maria Madalena
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cantagalo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Macuco
                                                                           To Belo Horizonte                                                                                                                                                         Sapucaia                                                      Cordeiro
                                                                                                                                                                                               Comendor Levy                                                     Sumidouro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Duas Barras                    Trajano de Morais
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gasparian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Conceição                                               Quissamã
                                                                                                                                                                                             Paraíba             Três Rios                           São José do Vale                                                                                                      de Macabu
                                                                                                                                                                         Rio das              do Sul                                                 do Rio Preto                                            Bom Jardim                                                                               Carapebus
                                                                                                                                                                         Flores
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Areal
                                                                                                                                          Valença
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                  anh
                                                                                                                                                                   a




                                                                                                                                                            iab                                                                                                              Nova Friburgo
                                                                                                                                                        P
                                                                                                                                                    Rio




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              caé                                       Macaé
                                                                 Porto Real                Quatis                                                            Vassouras                                                                       Teresópolis                                                                                    Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                            Paty do Alferes                                                                                                                          R io
                                                                                                                     Barra do Piraí                                                  Miguel Pereira                                                                                Cachoeiras de Macacu
                                   Itatiaia
                                                              Resende
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Casimiro de Abreu               Rio das Ostras




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              u
                                                                                                                                                            Engenheiro Paulo                                          Petrópolis             Guapimirim




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ac
                                                                                                                Pinheiral             Mendes
                                                                                                        Volta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ac
                                                                                 Barra Mansa                                                                de Frontin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                        Redonda                                                                                                                                                         o
        To São Paulo                                                                                                                  Paracambi                                                                                                                    Ri
                                                                                                                              Piraí
                                                                                                                       í
                                                                                                                    ira
                                                                                                            Rio P                                 Japeri                                                                      Magé
                                                       To São Paulo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Silva Jardim
                                                                                                                                                                          Queimados
                                                                                                    Rio Claro                         Seropédica                                             Belford Roxo                                       Itaboraí
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Rio Bonito                                                                               Armação dos Búzios                                                                                      BRAZIL
                       SÃO PAULO                                                                                                                                        Nova Iguaçu
                                                                                                                                                                              Mesquita
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Duque de Caxias                                           Tanguá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Iguaba                                                                                                       RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                Nilópolis                                              São Gonçalo
                                                                                                                                                                                                 São João de Meriti                                                                                                              Grande           São Pedro da Aldeia
                                                                                                                                Itaguaí
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                          RIO DE                               Niterói                                                                             Araruama                             Cabo Frio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Maricá                                                                                                                                                                                                   HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                        JANEIRO                                                                                    Saquarema
                                                                                                                Mangaratiba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Arraial do Cabo                                                                                                                      HIGHWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                          Angra dos Reis
                                                                                                                               Baía de Sepetiba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                23° S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                        Baía da Ilha Grande
                                                                                  Ilha Grande                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A T L A N T I C                          O C E A N                                                                                                                                                                         PLANNED RAILROADS
                              Parati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
To São                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the Map Design
Paulo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Unit of The World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        colors, denominations and any other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                      25                     50                  information shown on this map do not imply,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                         MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        judgment on the legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KILOMETERS                                          or any endorsement or acceptance of such
                                                                                                                44° W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   boundaries.                                                                        Source: www.dnit.gov.br

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DECEMBER 2010
