Report No. PID5983
Project Name                      Mexico-Health System Reform Technical (@)
Assistance Loan
Region                            Latin America and the Caribbean (LCR)
Sector                            Human Development
Project ID                        MXPE55061
Borrower                          BANOBRAS, S.N.C.
Guarantor                         United Mexican States
Implementing Agency              Mexican Social security Institute (IMSS)
Dr. Santiago EchevarrIa Zuno
Alvaro Obregon 121, ler. Piso
Col. Roma
Distrito Federal, Mexico
Telephone: (525) 2084395, 2084042
Fax: (525) 2085144
Date This PID Prepared            November 13, 1998
Appraisal Date                    January 26, 1998
Board Date                        June 30, 1998
Country and sector Background
1.      While Mexico's health indicators have improved markedly over the last 50
years, its population is aging rapidly. In 1970, 47 percent of Mexicans were
under 15; in 1990 the figure was 39 percent and, in the year 2000, it is
expected to be 35 percent. Over the same period, the proportion of Mexicans
over 60 is expected to have risen from 5 percent to 7 percent and, by the year
2020, to reach 12 percent. While this is fairly universal phenomenon, it has
important implications for health delivery, expenditures and insurance-based
financing. Due to strong economic and regional inequalities, Mexico also
combines two epidemiological situations: while the northern states have
health indicators similar to OECD countries, urban slums, rural areas and the
southern states are still subject to a pattern of common infectious diseases
and malnutrition typical of low-income countries. Mexico's achievements in
the health sector over the past several decades have led to significant
improvements in the health status of the population, a broadening of access to
basic services, and support of important public health measures. But its
health sector faces major structural problems, as measured by financial access
to health care, efficiency and, increasingly, total cost.
2. Following extensive consultations and deliberations with all segments of
society, the Social Security Law (SSL) was passed in December 1995,
formalizing major policy changes in both pensions and health. The most
important provisions in the SSL affecting the health sector include: (a)
shifting part of the financial burden from payroll taxes to Government
financing through general revenues; (b) introducing greater consumer choice in
the selection of providers (e.g., primary care physicians, secondary
hospitals, etc.); and (c) increasing coverage of the social security system to
the self-employed and informal sector workers through a publicly subsidized
insurance scheme.



Project Objectives
3.      This Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) has the broad objective of
supporting the design and implementation of major policy changes in the health
sector in Mexico, mainly through reforms in the Mexico Social Security
Institute (IMSS). For the short-to medium-term, these policy changes aim to:
(a) improve the financial management of the health insurance system, introduce
new resource allocation mechanisms, and limit the fiscal impact of the
proposed reforms; (b) strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework
for health insurance to extend coverage to the self-employed and informal
sector workers, ensure greater transparency and accountability among
providers, develop measures for quality assurance, and promote consumer
choice; and (c) improve the quality and efficiency of the IMSS health delivery
system by supporting the decentralization of decision-making, restructuring of
the health care delivery network around a population-based system, and the
introduction of performance-based incentives for providers.
Project Description
1. The TAL will complement a parallel adjustment operation ("Health System
Reform?IMSS") which would support the reform program for the period 1998-2000
through a two pronged approach: (a) developing and implementing health
insurance financing reforms and the necessary regulatory framework through (i)
separating financing from provision of services, (ii) increasing consumer
choice and extending coverage, and (iii) developing and implementing
purchasing mechanisms; and (b) institutional strengthening of IMSS through (i)
decentralization and (ii) strengthening its health care delivery network. The
TAL would have the following components:
(a) Technical Assistance for Policy Design and Implementation. IMSS will
receive direct technical assistance to design and implement new resolutions,
regulations, and operational guidelines contemplated under the changes in
regulatory framework in the Health System Reform adjustment loan.
(b) Institutional Strengthening. This component will finance training,
workshops, exchanges with other institutions, study tours to foreign
countries, and consultant services to help IMSS:
(i) reform its organizational and functional structure; (ii) design, implement
and evaluate new models of management in selected Medical Area Units and
Specialty Hospitals; (iii) design and install a new enrollment database; (iv)
introduce a Quality Assurance program and client satisfaction survey system;
and (v) design and implement a performance-based incentive system.
(c) Management and Technical Training Program. This component would finance
training programs for IMSS managers at all levels to acquire change management
understanding and basic management skills as well as for bio-medical engineers
and technicians to receive technical training for maintenance of equipment and
infrastructure.
(d) Project Coordination Unit. Under this component, the project would
support two basic activities essential to the implementation of the proposed
reform program, including both the adjustment and the TAL: (i) project
coordination; and (ii) project monitoring and evaluation.
- 2 -



Project Financing
5.      The TAL would have a total project cost of US$30 million, of which the
Bank will finance US$25 million.
Project Implementation
6.      The TAL would be implemented by IMSS through a PCU, assisted by
consultants. The PCU, which will be integrated within the regular structure
of IMSS, will be in charge of overall coordination and reporting, technical
and logistical support to IMSS' Regional Offices and Medical Area Units,
supervision and auditing, and monitoring and evaluation of the project.
Project Sustainability
7.      Experience in Mexico with technical assistance loans accompanying
adjustment operations is that commitment to carry out the program of technical
assistance (and consequently, the program's effectiveness) closely tracks the
progress of the overall reform. In this context, the strong Government
commitment to reform the health sector and its openness to learn from
international experience bode well for the TAL to make a lasting, sustained
contribution. There are no financial sustainability issues.
Lessons Learned
8.      The reform concept and process supported by the project are of a long-
term nature and politically and institutionally involved. Nations that have
followed reform principles similar to those proposed include Germany, the
Netherlands, Israel and, more recently, Russia, as well as Latin American
nations supported by the Bank, including Chile, Costa Rica, and Argentina.
All have evolved from employer-based insurance schemes. The key lesson
learned from the unfolding collective experience is that no two systems are
alike and therefore each system must be carefully considered on its own
merits.
9.      Lessons specific to TAL's center around reaching early agreement on Terms
of Reference for consultants and studies and on having the administrative
capacity to manage the consultancies and to carry out contracting efficiently.
IMSS does have this capability.
Project Benefits
10.     The TAL's benefits are ultimately measured through the success of the
reform program, which seeks to: (a) reduce the fiscal burden of the current
health system and its concomitant potential distortions, while improving its
financial sustainability; (b) improve the system's efficiency; (c) raise the
quality of care; and (d) increase its contribution to equity. The reform
would ultimately contribute to greater welfare and productivity, based on
improved health status and satisfaction with the system.
Project Risks
11.     The TAL has been designed to provide the necessary inputs to help IMSS
carry out its reform, but ultimately the TAL's risks are also directly related
to the risks facing the adjustment operation, which are (a) need for continued
- 3 -



support within the Government, (b) difficulties which may arise within IMSS,
both institutionally and politically, in the decentralization of health
services, and (c) possible delays in the approval and implementation of key
norms and resolutions (i.e., capitation formulas, guidelines for Medical Area
Unit operations, guidelines for opting-in and opting-out).
12.     An implementation risk is the large number of consultancies involved as
well as the complexity of the tasks to be carried out. While IMSS has
adequate internal capacity to coordinate the project, consideration is being
given to hire a firm or team of consultants to help manage and coordinate some
of the consultancies.
Poverty Category
13.     Not Applicable.
Environmental Aspects
14.     The project has no environment effects and is proposed to receive an
environmental rating of "C". One of the conditionalities under the adjustment
operation would support the adoption of good environmental practices through
an Operational Manual governing IMSS' investment program.
Program Objective Categories
15.     The TAL belongs to the category of Economic Management by helping the
Government develop policy and tools to limit the fiscal impact of health
finance reform and stimulate growth in the formal employment sector.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 11, 1998.
- 4 -



