Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4367-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Health System Reform Technical Assistance Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 14, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4367-ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1998, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, 
S.N.C. (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount of twenty 
five million Dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake such other obligations as provided in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and, except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual 
arrangements. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights under such contractual 
arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall provide or cause to be provided, in a timely 
manner as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, shall (by means of the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 
of the Loan Agreement) cause IMSS to carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental, technical, financial and 
administrative standards and practices, as well as in accordance with the targets set 
forth in the Implementation Letter. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with regard to the 
Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall cause IMSS to maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the 
Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall cause IMSS to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing 
standards and procedures consistently applied, 
by independent and qualified 
auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
Page  3
later than six 
months after the end of such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Guarantor shall cause 
IMSS to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
\0c(iv)
ensure 
that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the 
Special Account, the Guarantor shall cause IMSS to provide to the Borrower any 
information that may be required by the Borrower to comply with the Borrower’s 
obligations under Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the 
Guarantor shall cause IMSS to:
(a)
maintain procedures adequate to enable monitoring and evaluation on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with the targets set forth in the Implementation Letter, 
of the carrying out of the Project and of the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, semi-annual reports each February and August (beginning on the first 
February or August after the Effective Date), integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, each March, the immediately preceding February and 
August semi-annual reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient continuation of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.06. Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Guarantor 
shall:
(a)
cause IMSS to maintain within IMSS a project coordination unit and to 
coordinate execution of the Project through such unit.  Such unit shall be headed on a 
full-time basis by an Executive Coordinator appointed by the IMSS Director General and 
shall be further staffed with personnel in numbers and with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank;
Page  4
(b)
cause IMSS to exchange views periodically, with experts of international 
reknown in the field of health finance and provision, on the nature and pace of the 
IMSS reforms to be supported by the Project; and
(c)
cause IMSS to undertake medical care investments (in goods, 
infrastructure, training and research) according to the terms of the Operational 
Manual.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Guarantor shall cause IMSS to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with IMSS on 
said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (piso 9)
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
1777313-SHOCME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
Page  5
By /s/ Jesús Reyes Heroles 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Services provided by individual consultants shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants either:  (i) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; or (ii) 
Page  6
for Part D of the Project, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
(d)
To award contracts below the thresholds set forth in paragraphs 2 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Part, prior review and approval by the Bank of terms of reference 
shall be required.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
