                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26237

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-43670)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION

             TO THE BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C
                                  WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
                                      UNITED MEXICAN STATES




                                                 FOR A

                   HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN




                                              June 27, 2003




Country Management Unit for
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 2003)

                            Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                                US$ 1.00 = 10.01 Mexican Peso

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMGD          Medical Area of Decentralized Management (Area Medica de Gestion
              Decentralizada)
BANOBRAS      BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS, S.N.C.
C.U.R.P.      Population Unique Registration Identity Card (Cédula Unica de Registro
              de Población)
CANADE        Beneficiaries Database
CF            Complementary Investment Fund
DRG           Diagnostic Related Group
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDF           Innovative Development Fund
IMSS          Instituto Mexicano de Seguro Social
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NMMF          New Model for Family Medicine
PCU           Project Coordinating Unit
PHC           Primary Health Care
SHCP          Ministry of Finance (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público)
SIAREFI       Sistema de Afiliación, Recaudación y Fiscalización
SSA           Mexican Secretary of Health
SSHF          Social Security Health Fund
UMF           Family Medicine Units (Unidades de Medicina Familiar)
UMAES         Specialized Medical Units (Unidades Médicas Especializadas)
UNAM          National Autonomous University of Mexico (Universidad Nacional
              Autónoma de México)

                          Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                         Country Director     Isabel Guerrero
                          Sector Director     Ana-Maria Arriagada
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Maria Luisa Escobar

                                           MEXICO
                           MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Supporting Data and Tables                                              34

Project ID: P055061                                                      Project Name: MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM
                                                                         TA
Team Leader: Maria-Luisa Escobar                                         TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                              L/C/TF Number: SCL-43670
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (86%); Central government administration (14%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Regulation and competition policy
                            (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/20/1998                                        Effective: 12/14/1998              11/25/1998
   Appraisal:    01/15/1998                                            MTR: 03/15/1999                05/17/2000
    Approval:    06/30/1998                                         Closing: 06/30/2000               12/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          BANOBRAS/IMSS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S. Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:        Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria-Luisa Escobar                            Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine
ICR Primary Author:             Maria Luisa Escobar; James
                                Cercone


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:HS


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Health Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project (TAL) (Loan No. 4367-MX) provided
technical assistance support for the implementation of reforms undertaken by the Health System
Reform Project ­ IMSS (SECAL) (Loan No. 4364-MX). Therefore, both projects shared the
same development objective of modernizing the Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad Social (IMSS)
in order to improve efficiency, equity and quality of medical services provided to the insured
population. The IMSS is Mexico largest health care payor and provider, which according to
official estimates, provides care to around 42 million people throughout the country. The IMSS
provides health insurance to those employed in the private sector and receives contributions from
individuals who earn more than three minimum wages while the system subsidizes those who earn
less than three minimum wages. The two projects, in conjunction, the SECAL and the TAL,
targeted the overall objective through five main areas of action: 1) to change the IMSS corporate
structure and decentralize management responsibility and accountability; 2) to strengthen IMSS
health care delivery network; 3) to separate financing from provision of services; 4) to develop
efficient purchasing mechanisms; and 5) to increase user choice and extend voluntary affiliation to
the IMSS.

The objective of the TAL was to provide the necessary technical support to design and implement
the health sector reform, as supported by the SECAL. Specifically, the TAL consisted of the
following four components: (a) to provide technical assistance to the IMSS to strengthen its
capacity to design and implement new regulations and operational guidelines to build an adequate
framework that supports the separation of functions, gradual introduction of competition, and
extend health insurance coverage; (b) to finance consultant services to help the IMSS to
implement its corporate restructuring program, including assistance to decentralize management
functions and to strengthen selected Medical Area Units and Specialty Hospitals; (c) to finance
training programs critical to the implementation to the reform program; and (d) to coordinate
both projects, the TAL and the SECAL, through establishment of a project coordinating unit.

The project's objectives were consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy for Mexico,
discussed at the Board in December 1996, which aimed to ensure growth, macroeconomic
stability, social development and the modernization of the state. Additionally, the loan addressed
directly three of the five actions for the health sector identified in the country assistance strategy:
establishing a financially viable health insurance system under the new Social Security Law;
increasing the role of the private sector in the delivery of health services; and decentralizing more
responsibilities to the sub-national levels under an equitable system of federal contributions.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The TAL's development objective was not revised during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The TAL comprised four components as follows: 1) Technical Assistance for Policy Design and
Implementation; 2) Institutional Strengthening of the IMSS; 3) Management and Technical


                                                  - 2 -

Training Program; and, 4) Project Management and Evaluation.

Component I. Technical Assistance for Policy Design and Implementation (US$9 million or
30% of total project costs). This component consisted in giving direct technical advice to design
and implement policy changes contemplated under the first component of the SECAL,
Development of the Institutional and Regulatory Framework.

In order to separate financing from provision of health services, technical assistance was designed
to support the creation of the Social Security Health Fund (SSHF), including the Innovative
Development Fund (IDF). Technical support was to be given to define a comprehensive package
of benefits, develop policies and regulations to govern quality and financial aspects of contracted
health services, implement the supervisory function of the health care market, design and install a
new affiliation database for health insurance as the basis for benefit eligibility and capitation
system, and design and implement the financial management and reserve policy of the IMSS.

Within the context of increasing user choice and extending coverage, technical support was
designed to implement regulations and operational guidelines to promote user choice among
family doctors, the IMSS Medical Area Units and private and public Managed Care Organizations
(MCOs). Additional support was envisaged to design mechanisms to limit risk selection, protect
user rights, set financial standards and penalties for non-compliance for service providers, and
extend coverage of publicly subsidized health insurance to self-employed and informal sector
workers.

The development of purchasing mechanisms was to be assisted by developing purchasing
contracts for Medical Area Units and Specialty Hospitals. The former contracts were to gradually
introduce a risk adjusted capitation payment system and to include incentives to provide high
quality services. The design of the capitation formula was intended to promote equity, including
mechanisms for smoothing out the high variance among regions and Medical Area Units. The
purchasing contracts for Specialty Hospitals that were to be developed included a DRG payment
system, which was to be used also for clinical management.

Component II. Institutional Strengthening of IMSS (US$10 million or 34% of total project
costs). This component was designed to finance consultant services to support the reform of the
IMSS organizational structure and the strengthening of the health care delivery network (second
component of the SECAL).

To reform the IMSS, technical assistance was aimed at the development of the IMSS
restructuring plan within the health care administration. Emphasis was given to the
decentralization of the IMSS management, enabling decentralized authorities to perform
budgeting procedures, manage treasury systems, and to apply internal control systems.
Additionally, decentralization was to develop autonomous, integrated health care units which
would eventually compete in a market with other public and private MCOs. Consultancies were to
assist in designing, implementing, and evaluating alternative models in selected Medical Area
Units and Specialty Hospitals.




                                                 - 3 -

To strengthen the IMSS health care delivery network, technical assistance and consultancies were
to assist the development of Medical Area Units and the restructuring of Specialty Hospitals. In
addition, assistance was to be given to introduce operational changes directed towards the
improvement of the service delivery process, developing systems to evaluate medical equipment,
information systems and medical protocols, define adequate criteria to create the IDF investment
plan, introduce a Quality Assurance program and a client satisfaction survey system, and establish
a consumer advisory board at the national level.

Component III. Management and Technical Training Program (US$7 million or 23% of
total project costs). This component was to finance training programs accompanying the
implementation of the reform program, including for: (a) health administration managers of the
IMSS central and regional offices, to acquire change management techniques; (b) managers and
staff of health facilities, to acquire training to administer alternative provider payment schemes,
cost accounting, motivational skills, technical training and client orientation; and (c) bio-medical
engineers and technicians, to receive technical training for technological assessment and
maintenance of equipment and infrastructure.

Component IV. Project Management and Evaluation (US$4 million or 13% of total project
costs). A small project coordinating unit was to provide project coordination and monitoring of
both TAL and SECAL projects. For this purpose, the design and implementation of a monitoring
and evaluation system was to be financed, as well as technical audits, the hiring of consultants to
support the project coordination unit, computers, and other office equipment. A public awareness
campaign on the IMSS reform was to be designed and executed to bolster support of the reform
process.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised during project execution.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory. The overall reform process, supported by the SECAL and TAL operations, was
subject to the Quality Assurance at Entry process and was rated a "2". The QAG Review
Committee found the TAL to be highly consistent with the CAS and with the findings of previous
economic and sector work. Observations regarding quality at entry were related to the scope of
reform proposed under the SECAL tranche conditions and very limited observations were made
regarding the TAL. In particular, the QAG report indicated that the development of the DRGs
and the CANADE beneficiary database appeared "overly optimistic".

Significant work was carried out during project preparation to ensure that many of the upfront
bottlenecks, such as the lack of terms of reference or clear outputs, were addressed during project
preparation. To this end, the TAL incorporated a time-bound implementation plan as well as the
terms of reference for the principal projects that were to be contracted under the project. The
availability of detailed terms of reference and a well-defined implementation plan facilitated the
early execution of many of the projects and ensured coherency during the implementation process.




                                                    - 4 -

The close link between the TAL and SECAL actions, linked together through a policy matrix,
ensured the highest level of consistency between the overall objectives and the actions that were
supported under the project. Without the technical and financial support provided by the TAL,
the outcome of the SECAL would have been limited.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The TAL made significant contributions to the achievement of the overall IMSS reform objectives
in the SECAL and demonstrated high achievement of the TAL project objectives. Measured in
terms of the achievement of overall project outcomes, the result has been satisfactory. The
technical assistance provided under the TAL has produced important results in each of the three
main areas supported by the overall reform goals which aimed to: (a) improve the financial
management of the health insurance system to ensure financial transparency, introduce new
resource allocation mechanisms, and limit the fiscal impact of the proposed reforms; (b)
strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework for health insurance to extend coverage to
the self-employed and informal sector workers, ensure greater transparency and accountability
among providers, develop measures for quality assurance and consumer rights, and promote
consumer choice; and (c) improve the quality and efficiency of the IMSS health delivery system by
supporting the decentralization of decision-making, restructuring of the health care delivery
network around a population-based system, and the introduction of performance-based incentives
for providers. In each of these three areas, important progress is evident.

The most notable change that was supported by the project was the shift in focus from investing
in capital intensive projects, mainly new facilities, to a focus of modernizing the IMSS health
system. Interviewers identified the project as a determining factor in assisting IMSS with this
change and in providing technical assistance on achieving the change. During the implementation
of both the TAL and the SECAL, IMSS made important advances in terms of decentralizing
budget preparation and management and procurement functions. Prior to the projects, the IMSS
was entirely centralized and functioned under heavily politicized criteria for resource allocation.
The TAL provided important technical input to shift to a more performance-based framework,
including the introduction of increasing focus on equity, efficiency and quality. The TAL provided
the technical input to achieve improvements in financial management making the change in focus
evident by the introduction of the Innovative Development Fund to generate a demand-based,
competitive mechanism to allocate investment projects. The TAL assisted with the introduction
of technology evaluation, carried out a comprehensive review of the existing equipment and
supported the separation of financing from provision through the introduction of
performance-based contracts with decentralized providers. The combined efforts taken under the
TAL and SECAL projects led to visible changes in the way funds are managed and to an
increasing emphasis on value-for-money in the use of public funds.

While some of the targets under the SECAL were not met, the TAL fully met expectations
regarding the provision of technical support to the implementation of the IMSS reforms. The
limitations regarding implementation of the project activities designed under the TAL are



                                                  - 5 -

shortcomings of the political reform process, reflected in the SECAL evaluation, rather than
problems with the TAL´s execution. Section 4.2 documents the key project outputs with respect
to each of the TAL components.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Technical Assistance for Policy Design and Implementation

Satisfactory. This component supported the development of policies and regulations aimed
defining a comprehensive package of benefits, promoting quality assurance programs and
implementing actions that supported decentralization and the separation of financing and
provision. More limited progress is evident in terms of promoting the introduction of consumer
choice among primary care centers, protecting consumer rights and extending IMSS self-insured
coverage.

The design and establishment of new financial regulations regarding the implementation of the
Social Security Health Fund (SSHF) and the Innovative Development Fund (IDF) supported
progress toward the project's main objective. These new mechanism supported improvements in
the long-term sustainability of the IMSS financing and promoted a clear separation of financing
and provision. At the policy and regulatory level, the SSHF Committee established a new
collaborative and clearly defined mechanism for budget allocation within the IMSS. For the first
time in the IMSS history, decisions regarding investments and resource allocation were made
through joint planning exercises that included all the Institution's Vice Presidencies (Direcciones).
Moreover, the IMSS subscribed a long-term financial framework with the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) that was aimed at establishing a performance-based financing framework with a multi-year
planning scope. At the same time, new regulations were approved regarding the IMSS reserve
management. While most of the technical assistance for this activity was provided under the
Japanese Grant that supported project preparation, the TAL provided continuing support to the
implementation of financial agreements between the IMSS and MOF. The TAL also supported
technical inputs for the changes in the General Insurance and Association Institution Law and the
supporting regulations aimed at improving the regulatory framework for managed care
organizations and in providing a more even playing field between the public and private sectors.
In 2001, a new regulatory framework was approved to oversee the implementation of managed
care organizations. While the reforms were not specifically oriented to private sector regulation,
the new law provides a state of the art regulatory framework for the managed care market.

Changes are also evident at the operational level with regard to the implementation of instruments
aimed at improving efficiency and equity in the system. A new model of family medicine was
tested under the TAL and instruments for PHC management were implemented. The model was
based on the development of a clear package of service-- each guided by clear care clinical
protocols, and of the introduction of performance based incentives. The New Model of Family
Medicine, NMMF was implemented in 8 UMFs in different states by the TAL. Two of the key
elements to be included in the model: the implementation of incentives for physicians and the
consumer choice of their family physician were tested in one locality and found to have low
political feasibility and a very high financial cost. Important changes are noticeable in terms of
information systems where an electronic clinical record was developed and implemented in several
areas.   To further promote the separation of functions, the TAL supported the design and



                                                  - 6 -

implementation of management agreements which were signed with 50 Decentralized
Management Medical Units (AMGD in Spanish) and 5 hospitals during the life of the projects.
By 2000, roughly 36 percent of all AMGDs had a signed agreement. The new administration
made changes to the organizational model of the AMGDs and reduced the total number from 139
to 34. While this had important technical justifications it changed the scope and target of
indicators proposed under the project. These agreements were the first step towards the complete
implementation of risk adjusted capitation schemes, to introducing more integrated care process
at the primary and secondary level and to introducing a performance-based contracting
framework. Budgetary allocations were shifted from a historical basis to a capitated scheme,
adjusted by age and sex, to improve equity and encourage greater provider efficiency

The TAL successfully prepared the IMSS for the introduction of the Diagnostic Related Groups
(DRGs). The IMSS made impressive progress in the implementation of DRG patient
classification systems as a supporting instrument for the improved financial and clinical
management. By the end of the project, the DRG system had been implemented in 185 hospitals,
covering roughly 77% of all the IMSS hospitals. The introduction of the DRG system was aimed
at introducing a mechanism to improve clinical management and to promote provider payment
systems that link hospital resources with the case load and complexity of each particular provider.
While the IMSS has not been able to implement the political decision to link the hospital payment
with DRGs yet, the intention to introduce case-mix based payments remains clear and the main
obstacle has been the limited timeframe in which the DRGs have been fully operational.
Individuals that participated in the reform process in different capacities and who were
interviewed by the Bank as part of the process of preparation of this ICR, cite problems with
coordination between the financial and medical vice presidencies as one of the main obstacles to
ensuring a smooth implementation of the DRGs. Split visions over the utility of the instrument
and the appropriate implementation strategy partially limited the effectiveness of the instrument.
In terms of fulfilling expectations for the design and roll-out of the technical instrument, the TAL
exceeded expectations. The main limitation for achieving full DRG implementation reflects an
over ambitious project design rather than a lack of effort.

During the TAL and SECAL implementation, actions were also taken by the IMSS to improve
patient's rights through the implementation of a national ombudsmen office and improved access
to information by patients.

Component 2: Institutional Strengthening

Satisfactory. The overall objectives were met in terms of providing the technical inputs necessary
for the institutional strengthening projects related to corporate restructuring, decentralization and
organization of the provider network and strengthening of the technology assessment and quality
assurance mechanisms. In nearly all of these cases, the technical outputs that were delivered were
important inputs into the reform process.

Implementing the IMSS corporate restructuring plan was only partially carried out but significant
progress was made in developing the decentralized structure for the IMSS provider network.
More limited progress is noted in terms of restructuring specialty hospitals. Important progress is
noted in terms of the design of changes in the organizational structure of IMSS, the design of the
decentralized AMGDs and specialty hospitals, the design of the national IMSS affiliation
database, and the development of quality assurance, consumer-focused care and performance


                                                  - 7 -

based incentive systems. There is much more limited progress, however, in the implementation of
the projects designed under this component. The transition from design to implementation was
hindered by multiple factors. In some cases, the proposed activity was ambitious and
under-financed by the TAL, as is the case of the CANADE beneficiary database. In other cases,
such as the AMGDs, implementation progress was slowed due to the changes in administration
and a lack of political support to implement the changes. The short time frame was also a factor
that limited implementation progress. The introduction of difficult changes in an institution with
over 350,000 employees and around 42 million beneficiaries is a difficult undertaking that
requires considerable time for implementation; a 3-4 year time frame is unlikely to provide
sufficient time to design, establish political support and to implement these changes.

The design of the organizational changes that were required to adapt the IMSS corporate
structure to the requirements of a decentralized framework was initiated several years after
project effectiveness, thereby limiting progress with regard to implementation. The redesign of
the IMSS corporate structure was completed under the TAL and provided the IMSS authorities
with a range of options and implementation strategies for corporate restructuring. It is important
to note that the project objective of full implementation of the corporate restructuring was very
ambitious given the organizational and cultural complexity of the IMSS. Before the TAL and
SECAL projects, the IMSS was an entirely centralized organization. The TAL made important
contributions to support the decentralization process through technical assistance and training.

The technical input for restructuring of the IMSS providers network into autonomous, population
and geographically based AMGDs, as one of the basic axis of the reform, was successfully carried
out under the TAL. During the TAL and SECAL, 139 AMGDs were established and extensive
technical assistance was provided by the TAL in 6 AMGDs to define their functions and to
improve clinical management protocols and standards within the AMGDs. While TAL was
focused mainly on designing the organizational and functional issues related to implementation of
the AMGD, some of the changes in terms of the clinical protocols were shown to demonstrate
immediate savings. In Tabasco, the IMSS estimated that the change in clinical protocols for the
treatment of diabetics would yield an annual savings of roughly US$300 per diabetic per year
(reducing from $1,600 to $1,300), in addition to the intangible improvements in quality and user
satisfaction.

The technical assistance under this subcomponent was aimed at improving the integrated health
care model, fomenting decentralization, improving clinical and financial management capacity,
standardizing procedures and protocols related to clinical and administrative management and
pilot testing information systems for AMGD management. The design of the AMGD included a
complex combination of organizational, administrative and clinical issues that makes it difficult to
separate issues related to the redesign of the health care model and organizational restructuring.
The TAL was successfully implemented in the 6 pilot AMGDs, however, extension to the
remaining AMGDs was detained due to a change in policy instituted by the new administration.
Upon close revision, the new administration redesigned the concept of AMGD to increase the
population covered by each AMGD, to improve the focus on management capacity and to
improve the definition of the functions managed by the AMGD. According to the new proposal,
the number of AMGDs will be reduced from 139 to 34 and more clear definition of the hospital
management unit was defined. Upon project closure, the transition to the new model was not




                                                  - 8 -

completed.

Important progress was made in terms of the design of a technology assessment model. Under the
TAL, a complete inventory of medical equipment was carried out and a sophisticated model was
developed to assist in the selection and procurement of medical equipment. This provided a
valuable input to improving transparency in the allocation of equipment and in introducing criteria
of cost-effectiveness into the decision making process.

The final major element addressed under this component was the development of the National
Affiliation Database (CANADE for acronym in Spanish). This information system was designed
to support the introduction of population based health system and financing and successfully
developed an information system with a unique IMSS member identification (C.U.R.P.- clave
única de registro de población) to strengthen the enrollment process and to better target
resources as a function of actual demand for services. By the project's close, the IMSS had
registered 13 million of its officially estimated 45 beneficiaries and was involved in linking the
C.U.R.P. with the electronic clinical records of the IMSS patients. The project is expected to
produce significant improvements in service quality and cost reduction. The development and
implementation of the CANADE was designed but not fully implemented. First, the scope of
CANADE was expanded to include collections, auditing, and payment of socioeconomic benefits
through the new SIAREFI System. As a result the implementation of the information system is
expected to last through 2004 and the cost has been more than ten times the estimate provided in
the TAL. The IMSS has been willing to finance the difference in cost which demonstrates the
institute's commitment to this project and to the process of strengthening financial administration.


Component 3: Management and Technical Training Program

Highly Satisfactory. By fully implementing the proposed training programs, this component
managed to train 3,365 employees at all levels of the system, including central, regional,
delegation and AMGD level. The training included 24 modules aimed at improving the clinical
and managerial skill of staff in these areas. This component's expenditures reached $7 million,
representing 99% of the spending projected in the PAD.

The component developed the training in three stages. In the first phase, a situation analysis was
made to determine the current level of understanding and the specific training needs of the
management and operational staff. In the second phase, training was provided to management
and operational level staff, based on the needs analysis developed in phase I. In the final phase,
recommendations for future training needs and methodologies were developed.

The training program was accredited by the Medical College of the Universidad Nacional
Autónoma de México (UNAM), as the first postgraduate diploma in strengthening IMSS health
services. The component included a self-evaluation mechanism to assess the impact of the
training programs financed. A comparison between baseline tests and follow-up results shows
that the program was highly successful in improving knowledge and skill level among participants.
When tested on the main instruments regarding reforms, for example, the share of staff obtaining
a score of greater than 60 percent increased from 22.5 percent pre-training to over 70 percent
after the training.




                                                  - 9 -

Component 4: Project Management and Evaluation

Satisfactory.    Component 4 provided ongoing support to the project's coordination and
evaluation. The PCU was critical to the achievement of key project indicators and to providing
ongoing support for project implementation of both the SECAL and TAL operations. Despite
initial delays of 8 months to establish the PCU and to designate a PCU coordinator, the project
management component recovered and made important progress. The original PCU, integrated
with good technical and committed staff, developed significant execution capacity and carried out
an impressive amount of work during a short period of time (one year), which is reflected in all
products obtained. Between the start of the project in April 1999 and December 2000, the original
PCU managed to implement most of TAL activities, executing almost the total loan amount (23.5
million dollars, i.e. 94% of total loan amount) leaving only a small balance             for the new
administration to manage implementation of the recommendations resulting from the consultants'
reports already received or to be finished.

Although the PCU had originally been conceived as a small unit, integrated within the regular
structure of the IMSS, with support of specialized consultants to be hired for specific tasks under
the TAL, the PCU was in practice mostly composed of specialized external consultants initially.
However, during the second phase of the project (under the new administration), the PCU was
organized within IMSS' normal structure, along functional lines, matching with the most
important elements of the reform.

The extensive use of external consultants was one of the major deficiencies detected in the PCU's
operation. The lack of a clear mission and objectives of the PCU, uniting the external consultants
working on myriad projects, made it difficult to maintain a coherent reform framework and to
ensure that all the subprojects or activities could be later integrated into the overall TAL project.
The lack of budget for operation costs had a negative impact on the leaders' fulfillment of their
coordination, supervision and institutional liaison responsibilities. The lack of clarity with regard
to the administrative and financial figure of the PCU also affected project implementation. For
instance, there were three different units involved in the financial, budgeting, administration,
accounting and disbursement functions. Nevertheless, perhaps the major deficiency of the UCP,
was that the focus of the program was more on the monitoring of the subprojects and activities,
leaving aside the overall evaluation process.

The political changes in 2000 had both positive and negative affects on project execution. With
the change of government and of the IMSS administrations, the PCU was integrated to the formal
structure of the IMSS, which enabled the institutionalization of reform activities. This change also
narrowed the gap between the actions taken by the project and the policies that the new
administration aimed to implement. At the same time, the political transition implied a delay of
over a year in the implementation of the remaining of the TAL activities. The new administration,
as could be expected, changed the orientation of the reform process and had to undergo a learning
process to assume project administration functions.

This component was also to have included a significant component on communication and change
management. Efforts to communicate changes to both internal and external clients were limited
and the difficulties in implementing many of the changes underscore the importance of investing in
these areas. Most interviewers cite these areas as a weak link in the reform process. A coherent
communication strategy was never developed and the mechanisms to divulge the reform strategies


                                                - 10 -

and to "sell" the reforms took very limited advantage of mass media.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

High. Despite the shortcomings related to full implementation of many of the activities planned
under the project, the institutional impact of the TAL was significant. The project provided the
IMSS with resources and ideas at a time of transition. The implementation of the SSHF and the
IDF are signaled by key decision makers in the IMSS as fundamental elements in the process of
creating a more modern IMSS, governed by increasing transparency and a performance-based
culture. Efforts to design new, decentralized operational procedures and organizational structures
were highly consistent with the vision of a more modern IMSS and had an important impact on
the IMSS successful transition. While the unfinished agenda is still long, the organizational
change in an institution of 350,000 employees operating in diverse environments is not a simple
task. The project made a valuable contribution to improving the institutional framework for
modernization.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The change of government altered the pace of reform and introduced some important policy
changes that although did not deter the course of reform, they influenced both the TAL and the
SECAL. For example, the competitive aspects of the reform as they appear in the project design,
such as opting out and free choice, were perceived as policies oriented towards the privatization
of IMSS services at the time the new government administration took charge. This created
significant resistance from the Unions and Congress and made some of the activities and technical
designs supported by the TAL almost obsolete and of no use, while reducing the SECAL´s scope.
In this regard, the original design seems overly ambitious and unable to estimate possible
resistance to change and therefore to strategize in order to offer the client alternatives to
overcome opposition to the competitive aspects of the reform. As a result a few of the TAL
supported activities in this area were not used by the new administration in the implementation of
the reform agenda.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

While many of the key stakeholders interviewed cite the strong support of the medical and finance
directorates, limited support from the highest levels of government and from the legislative branch
made it difficult to implement the more structural changes designed in the project. Throughout
the life of the project, two successive changes in the IMSS Director General made it difficult to



                                                     - 11 -

maintain continuity and to achieve strong ownership of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The PCU managed the implementation of the project's multiple activities in a satisfactory manner.
The main issue regarding the project's overall impact is with regard to the delays or failure to
implement some of the reform measures ­the TAL was designed to support implementation of
some of the reform aspects designed under the project and to implement some pilots. In other
words, the failure to support the IMSS to reach the "point of no return", prior to the change in
administration, is the project's major shortcoming. There are two key factors that should be
highlighted in this regard. First, the initial delay of 8 months in establishing the PCU and naming
the PCU director constitute a significant source of time lost in pursuit of the implementation.
While this delay was eventually overcome at a technical level by diligent work by the PCU and the
extensive use of external consultants, the political timing was difficult to recover; this affected
both the SECAL and the TAL. The late start led the PCU to try to repackage some of the
technical assistance, for example, including AMGDs and UMAE in one consultancy rather than as
separate project as originally envisaged, contributed to the difficulty in managing the
implementation of technical assistance. The PCU was more limited to managing the contracting
process and all procurement issues rather than facilitating change of the reform process. The
diverse and complex policy agenda established by the project design made it difficult for the PCU
to focus sufficient energy on each activity under the TAL and to map the critical path from design
to implementation. Several interviewees have stressed the linkages that existed between many of
the areas of the IMSS and the PCU that were helpful in managing the reform project, thus
resulting in an excellent coordination work of project activities. However, they also emphasized
that information about reform contents and procedures was insufficient even among middle
management of IMSS despite the communications activities under the TAL's design. The critics
noted that the "low profile" of the project and the lack of an information strategy contributed to
implementation shortcomings of the reform agenda. They also stressed the importance of
transmitting objectives and concrete steps of the project to the broad public in a simple and direct
manner to bolster the necessary public support of the reform process.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total project expenditures, including technical assistance and training financed by the Mexican
government, were US$32.2 million, which is 107.3% of the total estimated project cost at
appraisal (US$ 30.0 million). Disbursements reached 97.5 percent (US$ 24.3 million) of total loan
funds (US$ 25.0 million).

Project costs were to be financed by the Bank and the Government at a 83% to 17% ratio.
However, the Government contributed in the end with the 24.5% and the Bank with 75.5% of
total project expenditures.

The most prominent procurement method envisioned at appraisal was "other methods" (95.3% of
total costs) and "non-bank financed", NBF (4.7% of project total cost). In reality, procurement
methods did not follow closely the original allocation in the PAD. "International Competitive
Bidding" ICB was the most common procurement method with 93.8 % of total project cost, and
"other" with 4.0% of total project cost.



                                                    - 12 -

It is important to highlight the important differences between the originally estimated project
expenditure and the actual expenditure. In approximately 80 percent of the major technical
assistance activities under the project, the actual expenditure exceeded the estimated amount by
between 20 and 2000 percent. In the case of CANADE, the estimated allocation in the PAD was
only about 10 percent of the total project cost since the system was expanded to include
collections, auditing, and payment of socioeconomic benefits through new SIAREFI System.
This inability to adequate estimate TA costs reflects and inherent problem in the design process
and is common to other health reform projects where the cost of some of the activities have also
been underestimated.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Most of the actions developed under the TAL have been continued by the new administration and
some have been reshaped in correspondence to the socio-economic and political reality in the
sector. Changes that have been introduced under the new administration focus on improving the
design of some of the reform activities in the TAL based on the analysis of the first phase of
reforms. There is widespread consensus in the IMSS that the modernization process has had a
critical role in changing the policymaking process and in introducing a performance-based culture
and performance-based instruments. There is strong commitment form the IMSS to continue
with activities supported by the TAL, like the implementation of the DRGs, the design and
implementation of its organizational reform and with the design and implementation of the
information system, which make project activities likely to be sustained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The integration of the PCU into the organizational structure of IMSS, introduced after the change
in administration, had an important effect on institutionalizing the reform process. To date, most
of the activities that were developed under the project have been assumed by the line departments
of the IMSS.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The participation of the Bank in the design of both the TAL and the corresponding
SECAL, and consensus building related to the reforms was considered exemplary by the key
stakeholders interviewed during the ICR preparation process. Many of the stakeholders
interviewed cited the important role the Bank played in assisting with the development of a
coherent technical assistance package to support the proposed policy framework in the SECAL
and in establishing a road map to reform technically supported by the TAL. The preparation
process was characterized as a highly constructive process in which the Bank provided superior
technical assistance to develop the conceptual framework for difficult reform issues. Prior to the
Bank projects, a number of reform initiatives had been developed by the government and Mexican
institutions but no consensus had been built around the reforms. By singling out the IMSS as the



                                                  - 13 -

target for reforms, the Bank assisted with the transition from platitudes to practice. The main
drawbacks of the Bank's participation in this process is with regard to the ambitious reforms that
were envisioned which entail highly complex technical developments as those supported by the
TAL, and often cumbersome and time consuming implementation processes to put in practice and
to pilot many of the designs and activities supported by the TAL. To underestimate the political
and operational complexity of the organizational and functional changes envisaged under the
project contributed to a highly ambitious project design.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. Bank supervision efforts during execution were timely, with adequate reporting of
project implementation progress, of good quality, it enforced loan covenants and followed
appropriately both financial and procurement related issues. It is important to maintain the
delicate balance between the activities and technical design supported by the TAL, and the policy
framework supported by the SECAL conditionality, which requires parallel supervision of both
projects, as well as intense and deep technical involvement to ensure that the TAL provides timely
and appropriately the technical instruments to the policies supported by the SECAL
conditionality. Given the complex nature and large scope of these operations in a difficult sector,
it would be important to consider for future assistance to intensify supervision efforts in order to
expand a high level policy dialogue with the sector and to maximize the Bank's policy advice.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. The Bank has been a major supporter of the health reform process in Mexico.
With the design and implementation of the TAL and SECAL projects, the Bank supported a
complex consensus building process around social security reform ­a highly debated topic in
Mexico. The implementation of the TAL introduced technical instruments and activities
necessary for policy change.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Highly Satisfactory. All government instances were very active in the preparation of the
project. Through activities financed by the IMSS and the Japanese Grant, detailed preparation
work was carried out to prepare the IMSS for a rapid implementation of key issues identified
during project preparation. The borrower also took a proactive approach to building consensus
among key stakeholders around both the policy framework under the SECAL as well as the
corresponding activities needed for successful implementation of the reform at IMSS to be
supported by the TAL. This process carried out prior to project implementation, allowed the
PCU to rapidly launch key activities under the TAL.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The implementation of the TAL activities received in general adequate support
although the IMSS was often left almost alone to develop its project implementation agenda.
While the change in administration slowed implementation performance, the presence of
BANOBRAS provided a high degree of continuity and an adequate transfer of knowledge. The



                                                - 14 -

supervision process, under the GOM, was slow to identify delays and problems in the
implementation of key project measures. The interviewers cited the need to have a stronger
monitoring framework to anticipate, or flag, problems in implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Highly Satisfactory. The PCU developed strong capacity to design and execute the technical
assistance envisaged under the TAL. The PCU, as an external agency staffed mostly by
consultants, had more limited success in institutionalizing the changes designed under the TAL.
Most of the technical work to be done under the TAL was either finished or committed by the end
of the past administration, which indicates a high level of commitment and drive of the IMSS.
The institution seemed very interested on developing through the PCU the technical work
necessary for implementing the reforms and successfully completed most of the estimated work
before the end of 2000.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Highly Satisfactory. The government accepted the challenge of launching a comprehensive
reform process of one the country largest and more complex institutions in the sector,
understanding the need of developing highly complex technical activities to be accomplished in a
very short period of time.   Both the IMSS and the Government supported the PCU in the timely
development of activities under the TAL in order to feed the reform process supported by the
SECAL conditionality. The IMSS accomplished major changes in its financial mechanisms and its
corporate structure supported by the activities and technical designs under the TAL.

8. Lessons Learned


The implementation of the IMSS reform program, through joint technical assistance and a
structural adjustment vehicles, provides a unique opportunity to analyze the lessons learned.
Because the reform in Mexico was supported by the Bank with a SECAL/TAL package and not
an individual investment operation, lessons learned from the design, implementation and
supervision of both projects in support of one reform process need to be considered in parallel.
This section analyzes lessons learned from both Bank operations, the SECAL and the TAL acting
together to support one reform process. Some of the lessons learned in this section might also
apply to the SECAL and are presented in the SECAL ICR and vice versa. In addition, many of
the activities carried out under this project have been proposed in other countries and supported
by a different type of Bank operation, which allows us to draw comparative lessons learned.

While this is not an intensive learning ICR, the preparation process has considered extensive
stakeholder analysis based on the results of a qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the project.
On the qualitative side, an external consultant was contracted to carry out more than 30
interviews with key stakeholders, organized in five modules. These interviews provide an in-depth
view into both the TAL and the SECAL projects objectives and outcomes. This was
complemented with an in-depth review of the project objectives, activities and outcomes, in the
context of a logical framework that substantiated many of the ICR findings regarding project
implementation. Following approval of the ICR, the Bank will hold a workshop with the IMSS



                                                 - 15 -

to discuss the ICR findings and the lessons learned.

This section is divided into three parts. A more general part addressing project design and
implementation issues is followed by a discussion of lessons learned organized according to the
main strategies of the reform process: (1) overall comments on project design and
implementation; (2) issues related to the separation of functions, resource allocation and
reimbursement mechanisms (including DRGs); and (3) the redefined primary health care model.

Part One

Project design and implementation

8.1     Strict coherence between the TAL and the SECAL must be a result of the parallel
design, and its maintenance during project life a result of the supervision process that
brings "tuning up" to the operations. Strict synergy of both project's implementation is
necessary to successfully support the reform agenda. Although the SECAL's goal for the
CANADE was very ambitious for the time frame of the project, the resources allocated for it in
the TAL were insufficient to achieve its goal during the projects' life. Maybe with more resources
allocated under the TAL for CANADE, it would have been possible to implement it as specified
in the SECAL conditionality.

8.2     The TAL financed some activities that were not used for policy change under the
SECAL since those were regarded as pilots without any real consensus around the policy
changes they were proposing to implement. Pilots in a SECAL/TAL package should be
conceived as vehicles to affirm the launching of agreed policy changes under the SECAL, and
opportunities to "tune-up" the particulars of the implementation process of such proposed policy
change.

8.3     When the Bank acts as a catalyst to change in the preparation phase, sufficient
support should be provided to ensure that technical issues are well addressed during
project implementation. The initial support by the Bank under the project preparation phase is
likely to produce a strong positive momentum for reform that is essential at the initial stage. If
the Bank supervision does not support this momentum with constant and sufficient technical
capacity accompanying a high-level policy dialogue with both the borrower and the implementing
agency it is unlikely that full policy change will be achieved at the end of the project.

8.4     To measure the impact and outcome of each activity of the reform project, it is not
enough to define monitoring and performance indicators at appraisal. The project must
create a system capable of providing and analyzing such information regularly so they can
be evaluated throughout the implementation period. Collecting and analyzing baseline data
for this purpose must be part of project design. While the project envisaged the development of a
monitoring and evaluation system, no evaluation was carried out until the mid-term review and an
M&E system was not ever developed. At the same time, many of the project activities had only
process related indicators, such as the number of products delivered, rather than outcome related
indicators.

8.5     A reform process supported by parallel SECAL and TAL operations should develop
a specific strategy to deal with the political aspects of a reform. TA packages should be
such that allow for technical developments to be easily linked to the policy arena for



                                                 - 16 -

implementation. The reform process requires detailed and complex technical developments
­which are usually supported by the TAL. However, there is a long and unpaved road between
the successful completion of necessary technical work and the implementation of policy change
based on such results.

8.6     It is important to closely collaborate and coordinate efforts among the Bank, the
Institution and the PCU in order to achieve the originally proposed goals and diminish the
risk of misunderstandings that might end changing the course of the reform. If originally
planed activities are agreed upon all parties involved it is important to make sure that technical
work to be done would be appropriate to support the expected changes. If technical work
responds to terms of reference which do not respond appropriately to the needs of the activities to
be performed in the original reform plan, there is a high risk of changing its direction.

8.7     Successful implementation of information systems in a reform project require a
strong internal champion and a clear operational need to guarantee timely and successful
implementation. The use of legal instruments to demand information in a particular format and
timing is an important element to promote implementation.

8.8     The composition of the PCU managing the implementation of projects supporting a
complex reform process deserves constant review. Procurement processes for all TAL
activities can be cumbersome and can consume staff's time completely. Someone at the PCU
must take care of maintaining coordination between TAL and SECAL activities and driving the
reform towards implementation results.

8.9     Highly complex reform processes often require initially a highly specialized technical
team of full time dedication to the projects. Usually, institutions can not afford to
concentrate all its highly specialized personnel in the PCU and as a result it is necessary to
initially staff the PCU with external consultants. It is important that once the reform process
has been launched successfully, the PCU starts gradually to be absorbed by the institution in order
to internalize the reform and to synchronize PCU activity with the day to day institutional
development.

8.10    Health reform processes are costly enterprises. Usually project design has
underestimated the actual cost of implementing reforms mainly due to: (i) underestimation
of the scope of certain activities which only become evident once the project in under
implementation; (ii) recurrent costs are usually not accounted for during project design;
(iii) changes in demand for services generated with the introduction of reforms are common
and usually not estimated. To improve cost estimates during project design is important in
order to diminish the risk for the reform process to get into a halt. When the costs are
underestimated, the country often ends up assuming the cost-overruns through increased relative
share of the project financing.

Part Two

Separation of functions

8.11    In order for the separation of functions to promote real efficiency gains, change


                                                - 17 -

must be made in the payment mechanism to health care providers, which need to de
designed with the support of the TAL. To develop incentive mechanisms for health care
providers, TA should be provided to obtain the indicators that must be clearly and concisely
defined and the information system capable of providing the information to report progress on
those indicators, must be in place and fully operational to support the implementation of
contracts.

8.12    The implementation of the DRGs is a complex, highly technical issue that must be
accompanied by concomitant changes in financing and information systems and cannot
overlook the design of a strong and aggressive strategy for its introduction to potential
users. Technical assistance should be timely and sufficient to support all three areas.
While the project successfully implemented the DRGs information system, the effectiveness of the
instrument was limited by a number of conditions. First, implementation of the system
underestimated the knowledge level of users regarding computers and information systems in
general. In one evaluation, less than 50 percent of the people being trained for use of DRGs had
access to a computer at the workplace. Second, DRGs should become an integral part of the
management system with hospital managers held accountable for their results in terms of DRGs.
Third, DRGs are regarded as complicated, not understandable, and difficult to use, indicating that
training quality was low or insufficient. Fourth, greater efforts have to be made to explain to
health staff how the system would be adapted to the reality of the IMSS hospitals and how the
DRGs could be interpreted with the IMSS data. Fifth, the DRGs should be included as an
instrument for decision making in all management training programs and as a powerful mechanism
to allocate financial resources.

8.13    Technical assistance should provide support for enough analysis to demonstrate to
both the financial and medical areas of the institution, the benefits of introducing and
using the DRG system; under different circumstances additional time should be allowed to
achieve this goal.

Part Three

Redefining the health care model

8.14    Changes to the health care delivery model should not be confused with corporate
change and technical assistance supporting such changes should maintain clear objectives.
The introduction of the AMGDs responded to the need to simplify the IMSS organizational
structure and to improve institutional efficiency. However, the implementation process allowed
for confusion regarding the original purpose of the creation of the AMGDs; those ended up in
changes to the delivery of services but not contributing significantly to simplifying the
organizational structure of the institution. This administration is successfully working on the
redefinition of the corporate structure.

8.15    Conditionality regarding changes in the health care model should not focus
exclusively on the economic incentives and theoretical policy instruments, such as `free
choice'. In order to ensure that significant changes in the health care delivery model are made it
is important to aim for broader changes: extensions in coverage, changes in protocols,
introduction of quality management techniques, among others. These changes will also allow the



                                                - 18 -

population and the health care workers to better understand the policy changes that are proposed.


8.16      The implementation of the PHC-model does not ensure cost-reduction if certain
additional measures are not taken simultaneously. The TAL should provide the design of
both types of activities in order to maximize gains from any changes to the PHC model.

8.17      Policy changes in the health care delivery model should be managed in close
connection with financial, institutional and corporate reforms; otherwise the overall impact
of the reform is diminished in all areas. The design of changes in health care models are
unlikely to succeed if they do not consider the overall sustainability and complexity of the
organizational change. This requires planning and coordination between medical, financial and
administrative structures in the organizations.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments from the Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad Social (IMSS)

        This was an important operation for IMSS because it triggered changes that otherwise
might not have been forthcoming. The work with the Bank staff was always respectful and
enriching. We had full support from Mr. Olivier Lafourcade and all the office in Mexico, and the
teams coming from Washington were of very high quality, which enriched the development of the
projects.

        This was a project that was politicized early on, and it was difficult to overcome resistance
in the early months (there were delays even to sign). The project related to reforms that have
proven to be complex in many countries, and perhaps that was an important cause of that initial
condition.

        Perhaps it would be useful to distinguish in the "matrix of compromises"* the
administrative and the political issues. In a project as large and complex as this one, both types of
projects are difficult, but the organization has much more control on the administrative than in the
political goals.

        The alignment of the TAL projects with SECAL´s goals is key. The administrative
components of both loans require substantial consultancy, and a component that might have been
useful would have been a contract with a consultant to prepare Terms of Reference and to advise
on the technical development of the project. IMSS has followed this approach with success in
Information Technology projects. This has to do with the proper role of the Unit to Coordinate
the Project (UCP): should it be a project manager or should it develop the TOR and do the
detailed follow-up of the contracts? In a large project with diverse topics, perhaps the role of
project manager is more appropriate.

*"matrix of compromises" is the same as policy matrix.




                                                 - 19 -

Comments from Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP):

1)      La Secretaría de Hacienda considera que la participación de Banco Mundial en este
proyecto ha sido muy positiva y proporcionó valor agregado. En particular se observa que el
trabajo del Banco ha sido valioso y enriquecedor en la etapa del diseño de la reforma. La
aportación del Banco fue con la experiencia de técnicos altamente calificados que contribuyeron a
diseñar una reforma de gran alcance.

2)      Igualmente se considera que para este tipo de proyectos de ajuste, lo trabajos de
supervisión del Banco adquieren un importancia fundamental. Como es bien sabido la
implementación de los Programas de Reforma enfrentan normalmente dificultades y resistencias
que ponen riesgo el logro de sus objetivos. De esta forma, un trabajo de supervisión del Banco
que sea muy estrecho y constante permitirá identificar con antelación las dificultades y por ende
tomar en forma oportuna las medidas correctivas que correspondan. Por estas razones, podría ser
conveniente que el programa de trabajo de las actividades de supervisión se diseñe desde la etapa
de preparación del proyecto y que la realización de las misiones se apegue a éste en forma
estricta.

3)      Otro elemento que podría contribuir al logro de los objetivos del proyecto, es contar
durante la fase de ejecución del proyecto con una facilidad de asistencia técnica del Banco que
permita respaldar trabajos que surjan como necesarios.

4)      Para efecto de las lecciones obtenidas no sobra reiterar la recomendación que el Reporte
de Terminación otorgue especial atención a identificar las causas y factores que originaron
impidieron el alcance de algunas metas o que representaron las dificultades que no pudieron ser
vencidas.

5)      Una lección aprendida en lo que corresponde al grupo de trabajo para la preparación de
operaciones de este tipo es la importancia que tiene el contar dentro de la estructura del Gobierno
Federal con un funcionario "designado" que sea responsable de la preparación proyecto. Es
igualmente importante que este funcionario participe desde la fase inicial de diseño de la reforma.
Como requisitos, el responsable además del conocimiento del sector, debe tener conocimiento en
materia económica y financiera.
Asimismo, y por las implicaciones que tienen proyectos de reforma, es recomendable que dentro
de la estructura gubernamental, preferentemente atienda en línea directa al titular del ministerio de
hacienda del país. El funcionario responsable además de actuar como promotor del proyecto,
debe contar con atribuciones para poder acordar temas de gran alcance e impacto en el país.

6)      Por otra parte, y no obstante el trabajo profesional y de alta calidad de los diversos
oficiales que tuvo proyecto, el Gobierno de México considera con mucha preocupación que el
Banco Mundial continúe sufriendo de una rotación de personal muy intensa. Se considera que en
algún grado la efectividad de la supervisión que el Banco otorgó a los proyectos del IMSS fue
mermada como consecuencia de este problema. Por esta razón se recomienda al Banco Mundial
tomar las mediadas para reducir este problema.




                                                 - 20 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

ICR Team
Maria Luisa Escobar (Lead Economist, ICR Task Leader)
James Cercone (Health Economist and Health Policy Analyst)
Alvaro Salas ( Physician)
Panagiota Panopoulou (Health Economist)
Claudia Macías (Operations Officer)
Lourdes Noel (Program Assistant)
Veronica Jarrin (Program Assistant)

Counterpart team : Gabriel Martínez, Beatriz Zurita, Onofre Muñoz, Blanca Conessa, Ismael
Diaz, Alejandro Peralta, María Guadalupe Pérez

Comments provided from:
Evangeline Javier
Susana Augusto
Mark Hagerstrom
Helen Saxenian




                                             - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
              Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
Regulations and guidelines providing          100%
provider-payment systems (capitation and
DRG)
Regulations and guidelines for choice of      100%
alternative health providers (MCOs)
Regulations and guidelines by IMSS allowing 100%                             100%
for opting-in
Corporate restructuring plan for IMSS health 100%
Care system
Satisfactory progress under restructuring in  100%
selected Medical Area Units and Specialtu
Hospitals
Public awareness campaign completed           100%                           100%
Quality assurance program in place and        100%                           100%
functioning
User surveys completed                        100%                           100%
Disbursement under IDF according to yearly 100%
targets
Training coverage according to yearly targets 100%
Evaluation system design                      100%                           100%
Signed agreements between IMSS and            100%                           100%
SHCP on reserves policy and financial
management


Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
              Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                          - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                         Component                        US$ million   US$ million
I. TA for Policy Design and Implementation                   8.10             8.80             109
II. Institutional Strengthening                              9.00           13.60              151
III. Management and Technical Training                       6.30             7.20             114
IV. Project Management                                       3.60             2.60              72

Total Baseline Cost                                         27.00           32.20
 Price Contingencies                                         3.00
                           Total Project Costs              30.00           32.20
                    Total Financing Required                30.00           32.20


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00         0.00          1.20          1.20
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00        21.40          0.00         21.40
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (21.40)         (0.00)       (21.40)
4. Training                          0.00           0.00         7.20          0.00          7.20
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (3.60)          (0.00)       (3.60)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00          0.20          0.20
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                             0.00           0.00        28.60          1.40         30.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (25.00)         (0.00)       (25.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                         23.10          0.00         0.10           0.00        23.20
                                   (20.10)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (20.10)
4. Training                          7.10          0.00         0.00           0.00         7.10


                                                - 23 -

                                           (3.10)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.10)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              1.20             0.70              1.90
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.10)            (0.00)           (1.10)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                30.20              0.00              1.30             0.70             32.20
                                           (23.20)            (0.00)            (1.10)            (0.00)           (24.30)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
I. TA for Policy Design         8.00         1.00                     7.80         1.10                  97.5     110.0
and Implementation
II. Institutional              10.00         0.00                    11.80         1.80                  118.0     0.0
Strengthening
III. Management and             3.50         3.50                     3.10         4.00                  88.6     114.3
Technical Training
IV. Project Management          3.50         0.50                     1.70         0.90                  48.6     180.0




                                                           - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/16/1996                5    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (2)
              04/11/1997                3    HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SOCIAL SECURITY SPE (1)
              09/06/1997                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HEALTH ADM. SPEC. (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (1)
              09/16/1997                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (2);
                                             SOCIAL SECURITY SPL (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/24/1997                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HEALTH ADM. SPEC. (2);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)

 Supervision
              09/14/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (2);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.
                                             (1)
              10/16/1998                1    PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1)          S               S
              04/20/1999                4    TTL - HEALTH (1);                S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (1);
                                             HEALTH FINANCE SPL (1);
                                             SECTOR LEADER (1)
              06/30/1999                2    TTL - HEALTH (1);                S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (1)
              10/08/1999                2    TTL - HEALTH (1);                S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (1)
              02/18/2000                3    TTL - HEALTH (1); SOCIAL         S               S
                                             SECURITY SPEC. (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              08/12/2000                6    HEALTH MANAGEMENT SP.            S               S
                                             (2); SOCIAL SECTOR SP. (1);
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1)
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); SOCIAL SECURITY H. SP.
                                             (1)
              10/13/200                 4    HEALTH MGT. SPEC. (2);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)



                                              - 26 -

               01/16/2001                   8    HEALTH MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                                 SOCIAL PROGRAMS SPEC.
                                                 (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                 SYSTEMS & HEALTH MGT.
                                                 SPEC. (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                                 SPEC. (1); SOCIAL SECTOR
                                                 SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL MGT.
                                                 SPEC. (1)
               06/19/2001                   2    HEALTH MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

 ICR
               11/13/2001                   6    SR. HEALTH SPEC. (1);
                                                 HEALTH MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                 (1); SYSTEMS & HEALTH
                                                 MGT. (1); PUBLIC
                                                 HEALTH SPEC. (1);
                                                 ECONOMIST (1)
               04/09/2002                   6    SR. HEALTH SPEC. (1);                  S             S
                                                 HEALTH MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                 SYSTEMS & HEALTH MGT.
                                                 SPEC. (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                                 SPEC. (1); ECONOMIST (1)
               09/16/2002                   3    HEALTH ECONOMIST (2);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               11/08/2002                   2    HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  6.63                          16.84
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       N/A                             N/A
  Supervision                               58.97                          144.99
  ICR                                       11.95                           30.25
  Total                                     77.55                          192.08
Note: The number of Staff weeks for Identification and Preparation is only estimated since it is not
provided by SAP. Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/Negotiation costs.




                                                 - 27 -

(c) Travel and Consultants (Bank Budget):
       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           Travel            Consultants/Other            Total
                                         US$ ('000)              US$ ('000)             US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               11.51                       15.3                26.81
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       n/a                       n/a                  n/a
  Supervision                              86.04                     72.20                158.24
  ICR                                      11.96                       8.15                20.14
  Total                                   109.54                     95.65                205.19
Note: Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/Negotiation costs.

(d) Travel and Consultants (Trust Funds):

PHRD TF025495
       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           Travel            Consultants/Other            Total
                                         US$ ('000)              US$ ('000)             US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               33.85                    254.40                288.25
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       n/a                       n/a                 n/a
  Supervision                                7.63                   226.80                234.43
  ICR                                        0.00                      0.00                 0.00
  Total                                    41.48                    481.20                522.68
Note: Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/Negotiation costs.

PHRD TF029530
       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           Travel            Consultants/Other            Total
                                         US$ ('000)              US$ ('000)             US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               16.64                     12.96                29.60
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       n/a                       n/a                 n/a
  Supervision                                0.00                      0.00                0.00
  ICR                                        0.00                      0.00                0.00
  Total                                    16.64                     12.96                29.60
Note: Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/Negotiation costs.

(e) Total Costs: Bank Budget and Trust Funds:
    Stage of Project Cycle                                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      Staff              Travel          Consultants/Other        Total
                                    US$ ('000)         US$ ('000)            US$ ('000)         US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            16.84           62.00                  282.66           361.50
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    n/a             n/a                    n/a              n/a
  Supervision                          144.99           93.68                  298.99           537.66
  ICR                                   30.25           11.99                    8.15             50.39
  Total                                192.08          167.66                  589.81           949.55
Note: Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/Negotiation costs.




                                                     - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Giugale, M., Lafourcade O., and Nguyen, V. (Editors at the World Bank). 2001. Mexico: A Comprehensive
    Development Agenda for the New Era. Washington, DC

Cercone, J. "Personal Interviews with IMSS Authorities at Central and Local Levels". Conducted in January
    2003 in Mexico City, Veracruz and Tabasco.

Mexico - Health System Reform Sector Adjustment Loan:

The World Bank. 1998. Mexico - Health System Reform Project (IMSS). President's Report No. P7223.
    Washington, DC.

The World Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. 1998. Loan Agreement for loan
    4364 - Mexico - Health System Reform Project (IMSS) ­ Sector Adjustment Loan. Washington, DC.

The World Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. 2000. First Amendment to the
    Loan Agreement for loan 4364 - Mexico - Health System Reform Project (IMSS) ­ Sector Adjustment Loan.
    Washington, DC.

The World Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. 2002. Second Amendment to the
    Loan Agreement for loan 436 - Mexico - Health System Reform Project (IMSS) ­ Sector Adjustment Loan.
    Washington, DC.

The World Bank and the United Mexican States. 1998. Guarantee Agreement for Loan 4364-ME - Mexico -
    Health System Reform Project (IMSS) ­ Sector Adjustment Loan. Washington, DC.

The World Bank. 1996-2002. Project Mission Reports and Aide-Memoires for Mexico - Health System Reform
    Project (IMSS) ­ Sector Adjustment Loan. Washington, DC.


Mexico - Health System Reform Technical Assistance Loan:

The World Bank. 1998. Mexico - Health System Reform Technical Assistance Loan Project. President's Report
    No. P7223. Washington, DC.

The World Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. 1998. Legal Agreement for Loan
    4367 - Mexico - Health System Reform Technical Assistance Loan Project. Washington, DC.

The World Bank and the United Mexican States. 1998. Guarantee Agreement for Loan 4367 - Mexico -
    Health System Reform Technical Assistance Loan Project. Washington, DC.

The World Bank. 1996-2002. Project Mission Reports and Aide-Memoires for Mexico - Health System Reform
    Technical Assistance Loan Project. Washington, DC.

The World Bank. 1996-2002. Other Project documents. Washington, DC.

Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Dirección de Prestaciones Médicas, Coordinación de Planeación y
    Desarrollo. 2002. Informe de Avance del Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica (Progress Report on the Health
    System Reform Technical Assistance Loan Project). México, DF

Banobras. 2003. Statement of Disbursement Applications [SOEs] sent to the World Bank regarding the loan




                                                   - 31 -

4367-ME. Mexico, DF

Banobras. 2003. Report on Disbursements by Procurement method regarding the loan 4367-ME. Mexico, DF

IMSS, Dirección de Planeación y Finanzas. 2003. Cédula Resumen de Proyectos financiados parcialmente con
recursos del BIRF (Summary of Projects partially financed by the IBRD). México, DF.

IMSS, Coordinación de Planeación e Infraestructura Médica. 2003. Presupuesto ejercido del Proyecto
4367-ME (Use of funds of the Loan 4367-ME). México, DF.

The World Bank. 2003. Statement of Disbursements by Contract of the loan 4367-ME. Washington, DC.

Pricewaterhouse Coopers, S.C. 2002. Audit Reports for the loan 4367-ME for 2000 and 2001. Mexico, DF.

PHRD Grants TF025495 and TF029530: List of studies, terms of reference and activities financed by the Grants
(1998-2001):

Technical Assistance

·        Technical assistance provided in the preparation of studies and seminars related to Heath Sector Reform:
(i) Analysis of the proposals presented by IMSS for the studies to be financed by the Grant; (ii) Supervision of the
preparation of the studies to be financed by the Grant; (iii) Preparation of an action plan and budget for the
seminars on Dissemination of the Health Reform to be financed by the Grant (Technical Assistance in the
preparation of studies and seminars for the Grant activities related to the Reform of Health Systems.

·        Technical Assistance provided to the Evaluation Committee of the technical proposals for the consultancy
"Development and implementation of an information system for hospitals"

Studies

·        Project Economic Evaluation
·        Study of Private Managed Care Market in Mexico
·        Diagnostic of the needs for training on management in the Social Security Institute of Mexico (IMSS)
·        Operational Manual for the Innovative Development Fund (IDF) to be implemented under the TA Loan.

·        Operational Manual on Environmental Impact to support decisions on selection and purchase of medical
equipment by the Medical Areas.
·        Design of a questionnaire to assess the quality of medical services delivered by IMSS in the Medical
Areas.
·        Study on Labor Market in Mexico: Analysis of the labor and salary history of the workers affiliated to
IMSS
·        Study on Financing of the Public Mexican Health Services

Preparation of Terms of Reference

·        Preparation of ToRs (terms of reference) for the studies for the implementation of the "Investment Fund
for the Development of the Integral Health Attention Model" (Fondo de Inversión para el Desarrollo del Modelo de
Atención Integral a la Salud)
·        Preparation of ToRs for the study on Technological Evaluation in Mexico
·        Preparation of ToRs for the development for the classification of patients through the Diagnostic Related
Group (DRGs) to be implemented in selected IMSS Hospitals.
·        Preparation of ToRs for the design and implementation of an improved information system for IMSS
hospitals



                                                        - 32 -

·        Preparation of ToRs for the development and consolidation of the decentralized medical areas in the
IMSS.
·        Preparation of ToRs for the diagnostic and implementation plan for an improved information system for
IMSS hospitals
·        Preparation of ToRs for preparation of a proposal for IMSS Reform

Courses, workshops and study tours

·        Workshop on regulating and monitoring managed care to look at experiences from the US and Chile
·        Study Tour to UK to gain exposure to new experiences on hospitals system and in preparation towards the
establishment of a twinning project between NHS (National Health Service of UK) and IMSS specialty hospitals
(of Mexico)
·        Study Tour to Barcelona, Spain to gain exposure on hospital administration and attend a seminar on
Health Sector Policy Reform in Latin American and the Caribbean Region
·        Courses and Seminars on Institutional Strengthening
·        Other courses related to health sector reform




                                                      - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Supporting Data and Tables

                             Health Reform in Mexico and Bank Support
                                       A new Approach to the ICR
In principle, an identification of the optimal combination of efforts that generate a desired outcome in a
health reform process should result from lessons learned of Bank support to such processes in several
countries. While this ICR is not an intensive learning ICR, this ICR is designed as a contribution to that
exercise. A reform process is a combination of efforts over a period of time including those supported by
Bank operations. Project financed activities evolve in an environment determined by factors such as the
economic and fiscal situation of the country in question, the political leadership as well as the degree of
community participation, the particular characteristics of the health sector, etc. This ICR has been
designed with such holistic approach in mind, including stakeholder analysis and follow-up workshops, in
order to analyze Bank support to the reform process within the particular characteristics of the sector at
the time of project design and during its implementation.

This analysis is necessary in order to identify the combination of efforts from the TAL that in conjunction
with the policies supported by the SECAL produced the observed results in the health reform process in
Mexico. Our aim is to try to establish a relationship between the successes and failures of the Mexican
health reform process with the combination of activities supported by the TAL and their interaction with
sector policies in the SECAL, both in the presence of events outside the scope of the operations but that
influenced project design and implementation.

The ICR preparation process involved the analysis of issues of diverse nature: from the timeliness of
political decisions, to economic situations that enable or disable the implementation of strategies designed
to be supported by technical assistance, to the overall political and social climate of the country and its
institution(s). A detailed analysis of results obtained during the project's life, compared to initial
objectives and to project activities has been done, and then those are analyzed within the political and
socio-economic context present during the whole project cycle. Interviews structured in modules were
applied to a group of approximately 30 persons who have been involved in the health reform process in
Mexico in different capacities and results are compiled and analyzed for the ICR analysis presented here.




                                                         - 34 -

- 35 -

- 36 -

