Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4367-ME
Loan Agreement
(Health System Reform Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
Dated September 14, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4367-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS 
PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS  (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing targets to be used in monitoring and evaluating 
implementation of the Project;
(b)
“IMSS” means the Guarantor’s Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social 
(Mexican Social Security Institute), a public agency with its own separate legal 
personality, governed by the terms of the Social Security Law (as hereinafter 
defined);
(c)
“Medical Area Units” means any one of the IMSS decentralized health 
service provision units which acts as a managed care organization for IMSS 
beneficiaries in a given geographical area;
(d)
“Operational Manual” means IMSS’ Manual Operativo para el Fondo de 
Desarrollo Innovativo (Operational Manual for the Innovative Development Fund), dated 
February 1998;
(e)
“PCU” means the coordination unit referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of the 
Guarantee Agreement;
(f)
“Social Security Law” means the Guarantor’s Ley del Seguro Social (Social 
Security Law), published in the Guarantor’s Diario Oficial de la Federación (Official 
Gazette) on December 21, 1995, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(h)
“Specialty Hospitals” means IMSS tertiary-level hospitals that provide 
specialized medical services to IMSS beneficiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
five million Dollars (25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de México on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, 
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor and with IMSS, satisfactory to the Bank, 
providing, inter alia, for:  
(a)
the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for use by 
IMSS; and 
(b)
the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the 
Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest and 
other charges on the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.  The 
Borrower shall exercise its rights under such contractual arrangements in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused 
to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the reviews referred to in 
Section 3.05 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its 
operations and financial condition, including records and separate accounts for the 
Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with generally accepted 
auditing standards and procedures consistently 
applied, by 
independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
Page  4
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the legal framework or parts 
thereof, governing health insurance in Mexico, shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Guarantor to perform any of its obligations under the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement have been entered into;
(b)
that the PCU has been established, is staffed with the Executive 
Coordinator referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement and is 
operational; and
(c)
that terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, have been prepared by 
IMSS for the provision of all the technical assistance under Parts A and B of the 
Project, as well as for the design of the evaluation program referred to in Part D.3 
of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower, the Guarantor and IMSS, have been duly executed by them, and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower, the Guarantor and IMSS in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 14, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Obras y
    Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.
Tecoyotitla 100
Colonia Florida
01030 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
BNSOME 01772619
BANOME 01762072
Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
  PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
By /s/ José Luis Flores Hernández 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  6
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
   Dollars)
  Financed
(1)
Consultant services
19,300,000
100%
under Parts A, B and
D of the Project
(2)
Consultant services
 3,200,000
 
50%
for the provision of
training under Part
C of the Project
(3)
Unallocated
 2,500,000
___________
TOTAL
25,000,000
==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior 
to the date of this Agreement but after January 1, 1998.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for all contracts not subject to prior review pursuant to 
Part D.2 of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Guarantor in achieving 
improvements in the health sector in Mexico by supporting reforms within IMSS through:  
(a) design and implementation of an IMSS regulatory and institutional framework for 
health services financing and insurance; (b) development, implementation and 
evaluation of the organizational and managerial changes required to increase the 
efficiency and quality of IMSS health service provision; and (c) management and 
financial training of IMSS staff.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Policy Design and Implementation
Provision of technical assistance to IMSS for the design and implementation of 
guidelines, policies, resolutions and/or regulations to underpin its reform efforts, 
including policies and regulations to:  define a comprehensive package of benefits for 
individuals insured through IMSS; promote the introduction of user choice within 
Medical Area Units; extend the coverage of IMSS publicly subsidized health insurance; 
establish and apply mechanisms for the separation of IMSS financing and IMSS service 
provision; protect consumer rights within IMSS; and design and use a new IMSS 
beneficiary enrollment data base. 
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
Provision of technical assistance to IMSS in support of:  IMSS organizational 
and functional reforms; the design, implementation and evaluation of new management 
models in selected Medical Area Units and Specialty Hospitals; the introduction of a 
quality assurance program and client satisfaction survey system; and the design and 
Page  7
implementation of a performance-based incentive system for IMSS personnel and units.
Part C:
Managerial and Technical Training
Provision of training to:  IMSS high-level managers at central and regional 
levels, with regard to change management techniques; IMSS high-level managers of 
health facilities, with regard to basic management and motivational skills; IMSS 
middle-level staff, with regard to basic management development, technical skills and 
client orientation; IMSS middle-level physician managers, with regard to management of 
Medical Area Units; and IMSS bio-medical engineers and technicians, with regard to 
equipment and infrastructure maintenance.
Part D:
Project Management
1.
Establishment and operation of the PCU.
2.
Carrying out of a public awareness campaign regarding IMSS reforms.
3.
Design and application of an evaluation program (including performance 
benchmarks) to assess the effects of IMSS reform initiatives and guide such reform 
initiatives’ implementation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
Page  8
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total 
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, 
promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry 
of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during 
Page  9
said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply 
to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $2,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
Page  10
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  11
