Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15109-PAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 29, 1996
Country Department II
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
US$ 1.00 = 1.00 Balboa (B)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
March-December
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CEFACEI Community and Family Center for Initial Education (Centro Familiary Comunitario
de Educacion Inicial)
COIF      Center of Infant and Famnily Orientation (Centros de Orientacidn Infantily Familiar)
ERP       Economic Recovery Program
ERL       Economic Recovery Loan
FES       Social Emergency Fund (Fondo de Emergencia Social)
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNP       Gross National Product
GOP       Government of Panama
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IFARHU  Institute for Training and Progress in Human Resources (Instituto para la Formaci6n
y Aprovechamiento de Recursos Humanos)
IFI       International Financial Institutions
LIB       Lirnited International Bidding
MIPPE    Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Politica
Econ6mica)
MOE       Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educaci6n)
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
OAS       Organization of American States
PAU       Project Administration Unit
SOE       Statement of Expenses
UNESCO  United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
USAID    United States Agency for International Development



THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION .......................                                                                                                         I
A. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL SETTINO .......................1
B. THE EDUCATION SECTOR ...................................................................................................... 2
(1) The Education System .............................................                                                                       2
(2) Key Issues ...........................................                                                                                   5
(3) Government Strategy ...........................................                                                                          7
C. LESSONS LEARNED AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT ........................................... 8
(1) Lessons Learned ........................................... 8
(2) Rationale f          or Ba nk Involvement ............................................,.                     ................................. 9
2. THE PROJECT ...........................................                                                                                     10
A. PROJECT CONCEPT AND OBJECTIVES ................................................................................................................. 10
B. PROJECT TARGET AREAS ........................................... 10
C. PROJECT COMPONENTS ............................................................................................................. 10
D. PROJ ECT DESCRIPTION .............................................................................. 11
(1) Component I - Improvement of Quality of, and Expansion ofAccess to, Primary and Lower
SecondaryEducation ......................,,,..,,,,,..,,.,,.,...11
(2) Component 2 - Expansion of Non-Formal Pre-School Education .,                                                                          14
(3) Component 3 - Institutional Strengthening of the Mvinistry of Education ..................................................... 17
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .....................................................                                                           18
A. PROJECT COSTS ......................................................                                                                        18
B. PROJECTF         INANCING .............................................................................................. ................................ 19
C. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES AND PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ....................................................     20
D. PROCUREMENT ....................................................                                                                             21
E . DISBURSEMENTS ....................................................                                                                         26
F. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING .................................................... 27
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT ....................................................                                                  27
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT .................................................... 27
B. PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION .................................................... 28
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................................                                                              29
A. PROJECT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC RETURNS .................................................... 29
B. IMPACT ON WOMEN ................................................................................................................................. .......... 30
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .......................                                                                                                 30
D. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH ....................... 30
E. PROJECT RiSKS ....................... 30
F. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORY ....................... 3 1
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............................................                                                          31
ANNEXES ............................................                                                                                         32
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal and post-appraisal missions that visited Panama in May and
July, 1995, respectively. Mission members were C. Chiappe (Task Manager); M. Vera, E. Waters, and H. Yang
(LA2HR); M. Mathov (OBPIE); C. Benito, J.M. Ezquivel, and B. Hermosilla (Consultants); and F. Fuentes (RUTA
Social). It has benefitted greatly from the inputs of Eleanor Schreiber (LA2HR); L.Kebeck contributed to the
report at headquarters. Messrs. Edilberto L. Segura (LA2DR) and Kye Woo Lee (LA2HR) are the Department
Director and Division  Chief, respectively, for this operation.  Peer Reviewers are  C. Valdivieso  (ESP) and M
Potashnik (LA 3HR).






ii
PANAMA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The Republic of Panama.
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Education (MOE).
Beneficiary:             Not applicable
Poverty:                 Program of Targeted Interventions. The project will target the
poorest 185 townships (corregimientos) in the country as defined
by housing, education, health and nutrition indicators.
Amount:                  US$ 35 million.
Terms:                   Standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for
fixed-rate US dollars single currency loans with an expected
disbursement period of 3-6 years.
Commitment Fee:          0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          See para. 3.3
Net Present Value:       Not Applicable (see paras. 5.1-5.3)
Map:                     IBRD No. 27496
Project ID:              PA-7832



iii
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. General Country Data
GDP Per Capita (US$)                  2,600      S            1992
Area                                     77      000 Sq. Km. NA
Population Estimate                      2.3     Millions     1992
Urban Population (percent of total)      54      %            1992
Indigenous Population (percent of total)  8.3    %            1990
B. Social Indicators
Crude Birth Rate (Per Thousand)          25      Births       1992
Crude Death Rate (Per Thousand)           5      Deaths       1992
Population Growth Rate                   2.1     Annual %     1992
Total Fertility Rate                     2.9     Births       1992
Infant Mortality Rate
(Per Thousand Live Births)              21      Deaths       1992
Maternal Mortality Rate
(Per 100,000 Live Births)                60     Deaths       1992
Life Expectancy At Birth                  73     Years        1992
Adult Illiteracy Rate                     12     %            1990
C. Basic Education Indicators
Enrollment Numbers
Pre-school                      33,288     Students    1992
Primary (grades 1-6)           356,247     Students    1992
Secondary (grades 7-12)        201,047     Students    1992
University                      63,300     Students    1993
Enrollment Rates
Initial Educ. (3-4 year-olds)      5.8     %            1992
Preschool (4 year-olds)            9.3     %            1992
Preschool (Jardin. 5 year-olds)   45.5     %            1992
Primary, Gross                   104.5     %            1992
Primary, Net                      90.9     %            1992
Secondary, Gross                  63.6     %            1992
Secondary, Net                      53     %            1992
University, Gross                 18.3     %            1993
Private sector participation in enrollments
Pre-school                          33     %            1992
Primary                            8.5     %            1992
Secondary                         17.5     %            1992
University                           9     %            1992



iv
D. Basic Education Efficiencv
Primary Education
Repetition Rate                     11.3    %           1992
Dropout Rate                         1.6   %            1992
Completion Rate                    90.4    %            1992
Lower secondary Education (Grades 7-9)
Repetition Rate                     11.1    %           1992
Dropout Rate                         6.9   %            1992
Completion Rate                    66.6    %            1992
E. Public Education ExDenditure Data
Total Education Expenditures as % of GNP   5.5   %            1993
Educ. Expend. as % of
Tot. Pub. Expend.                  16.4   %            1993
Prescho. and Prim Educ. Expend.
as % of Total Educ. Expen.         40.9    %            1992-93
Second. Expen. as % of Tot. Pub. Exp.   26.7   %        1992-93
Higher Ed. Expen. as % of
Tot. Pub. Exp.                    32.4    %            1992-93
F. Annual Unit Costs
Preschool and Primary Education          290.0    $           1992
Secondary Education                      371.0    $           1992






v
EDUCATION GLOSSARY
Basic Education          Two years of pre-school, primary school (gradesl-6) and lower
secondary school (grades 7-9).
Completion Rate         For the nine years of basic education, the ratio between the number
of students exiting grade 9 in a given year T and the number of
students entering grade 1 in year T-9 as a close approximation of
the percentage of students of a given cohort to complete the nine
years of basic education.
Dropout Rate             Percentage of students who abandon the system without completing
the education cycle.
Educational Attainment    Number of years of formal schooling attended by a student.
Educational Achievement   Magnitude of achievement in any subject area, generally measured
according to national curriculum learning objectives.
Enrollment Rate          Percentage of children of any age group or a given age group
enrolled in a certain education level.
Enrollment Rate, Gross   Percentage of children of any age group enrolled in a grade level.
Percentages may be more than 100 because some pupils are
younger or older than the standard school age.
Incomplete School        A school with fewer than the official number of educational grades.
Kindergarten             One year before primary (five-year-olds).
Multigrade Classroom     A classroom where children of several different grades are taught
by one teacher.
Net Enrollment Rate      Percentage of children of a given age group enrolled in their
corresponding grade level.
Nursery School           One year before kindergarten (four-year-olds)
Pre-School               Two year of education before primary school (nursery and
kindergarten).
Promotion Rate           Percentage of students enrolled in a given grade who enroll in the
subsequent grade the following year.



vi
Promotora               An educator chosen by the local community, who may or may not
have formal training.
Repetition Rate         Percentage of students enrolled in a certain grade who are not
promoted to the next grade and who therefore enroll again in the
same grade the following year.



THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
A. Economic and Social Setting
1.1   The Panamanian economy is among the more prosperous and stable in the Central
American region. Nonetheless, the economy is highly segrnented, between the dynamic,
internationally-oriented service sector, which generates about 75 percent of gross domestic
product (GDP), and the domestically-oriented sector, characterized by policy-induced rigidities
and low productivity. Panama's wealth has cushioned it from the worst economic consequences
of its failure to undertake structural adjustment. While it has avoided the economic crisis which
has plagued the rest of Central America, Panama is now paying for economic mismanagement in
the form of missed opportunities. In 1989, the poorest 20 percent of the population received 2
percent of national income, the lowest share in Latin America. This group saw its relative
position worsen since 1980, when it received nearly 4 percent of national income.
1.2   Panama has 2.3 million inhabitants, and although its socioeconomnic indicators are among
the best in Central America, its two percent annual population growth rate and 2.9 births per
woman are the lowest in the region, while its infant mortality (21 in 1,000), life expectancy (73),
and acceptance of family planning are only slightly behind Costa Rica in the six-country Central
American region. Broad public health and social security coverage are responsible for these
favorable national indicators. However, these statistics mask significant regional differences within
the country, and wide variations from the mean within each indicator. The population is multi-
ethnic, with persons of European, African, Asian, and indigenous descent, the latter group
constituting 8.3 percent of the population in 1990. The indigenous population is principally
located in the provinces of Bocas del Toro, Darien, Chiriqui, and in the San Blas region in Colon.
These areas have generally unfavorable socioeconomic indicators.
1.3   Analyses carried out by the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (MIPPE) indicate
that in spite of gains made during the 1970's and early 1980's, almost 25 percent of Panama's
population lives in conditions of critical poverty with social indicators typical of low income
countries. In the ten poorest districts (out of 67), which account for about 15 percent of
Panama's total population: (a) the average household earned less than US$ 850 per annum, about
one third of the cost of the basic food basket for a family of five; (b) life expectancy at birth is ten
years below the national average; (c) the infant mortality rate ranges between 50 and 75 per
thousand live births, three to four times the national average; (d) 40 to 70 percent of children aged
6 to 9 suffer from moderate to severe growth retardation due to chronic malnutrition, compared
to a national average of 24 percent; and (e) almost one third of households do not have access to
a protected water supply or basic sanitation (latrine). These pockets of poverty fall into one of
two types: (a) more remote rural areas with limited natural resources and agricultural potential,
including areas inhabited predominantly by indigenous people; and (b) peri-urban (slum)
settlements.



2
B. The Education Sector
(1) The Education System
1.4   The education system in Panama consists of pre-primary, primary, secondary and higher
education with the following distribution of students:
Table 1. Panamanian School System - 1992
Students            Teachers             Institutions
Pre-school          33,288                1,447               894
Primary             356,247               14,249              2,744
Secondary           201,047               10,052              223
University          63,288               3,609                4
Basic education is defined as two years of preschool, six years of primary school (grades 1-6) and
three years of lower secondary school (grades 7-9).
1.5  It is mandatory that pre-school services be provided, but it is not mandatory that parents
send their children to pre-school. It consists of nursery school (Pre-jardines de Infancia) for
four-year-olds, and kindergarten (Jardines de Infancia) for five-year-olds. Jardines de Infancia
are one-year schooling programs that emphasize readiness for reading and writing. There are
about 33,000 children enrolled in 894 Jardines de Infancia. About two thirds of these are public
institutions, and the remainder are private. The majority of kindergarten students attend classes in
primary school buildings. About 45 percent of five-year-olds are enrolled in kindergarten, a figure
significantly lower than other Latin American countries of similar income level. Pre-school
students in Panama are evenly divided between males and females. The pre-school coverage by
province reveals an inverse relationship between coverage and provincial poverty (Annex 1).
Thus, the current program serves mostly the wealthy provinces and Panama City, with a
curriculum developed for implementation by highly educated teachers.
1.6 Panama has developed a pilot program, the Community and Family Center for Initial
Education (CEFACEI), to provide community-based pre-school services for four- and five-year-
olds. The CEFACEIs use infrastructure provided by the community and a community educator
(promotora), with or without formal training, to provide educational services to 15-21 children.
At this time, there are approximately 1,600 children in 88 centers located in rural and marginal
urban areas. Up until now, it has operated only in communities that can afford to pay a
promotora. The CEFACEI program is an alternative for rural and poor areas where it is difficult
to retain highly qualified teachers. Therefore, the curriculum must be presented to poorly
educated parents and community educators through clear and simple messages conveyed through
appealing educational materials. However, the existing pre-school curriculum is presented in
excessively technical terms that require interpretation by highly trained teachers. The majority of
CEFACEIpromotoras are therefore limited to child care activities. The workplace programs,
known as Centers of Infant and Family Orientation (COIFs), are administered by the Ministry of
Labor, and are available for children three to five years old in 70 centers mainly in Panama city



3
and other urban areas. The COIFs' principal purpose is to provide child care for parents working
in public offices.
1.7   Primary school is mandatory and free, consisting of six grades and currently serving
approximately 360,000 students. There are approximately 14,300 teachers and 2,700 schools.
Only five percent of all primary schools are private. The primary school level is characterized by
high enrollment ratios, qualified teachers, and low student/teacher ratios. The net enrollment rate
in primary school is 91 percent, comparable to that of other countries in Latin America with good
education indicators. The gross enrollment rate is 105 percent and also comparable to the rates of
other Latin American countries with strong education systems. There does not appear to be a
consistent correlation between net enrollment and the income level of a province. However, the
poorest region of San Blas has an exceptionally low net enrollment rate of 64.6 percent, which is
probably due to both the poverty level and the difficulty of access to schools in the area. The
relatively large size of its indigenous population has also hindered its integration into the country's
predominantly Hispanic culture. Three out of five Panamanian students who begin primary school
do not complete the cycle in the anticipated six years, and the repetition rate in the four poorest
provinces is close to 20 percent. Primary enrollment for the country is 47.6 percent female while
they represent 49.1 percent of the population in the age bracket. Differences appear when
analyzing the poorest corregimientos of the country', in which female enrollment is 46.9 percent.
At the national level, the drop out rate is low, under 2.0 percent. However, when data are
analyzed by corregimientos, the poorest have drop out rates around 6.0 percent. The failure rate
is almost 10 percent nationally but, again, goes up to 12.3 percent for the poorest corregimientos
(Annex 1).
1.8    The public primary student/teacher ratio is 25. The current number of teachers on the
public payrol can serve all the projected primary school-age population of 1999. Even the
province with the highest student/teacher ratio at present would have a ratio of only 31, using the
current student/teacher ratio per province. Ratios in eight provinces would still be below 30
(Annex 1).
1.9   There is no standard system to evaluate the quality of education. The information
available suggests that average quality is low. This is a critical issue since Panama devotes a
substantial amount of economic resources to education. The sector has one of the best paid
teaching forces in the region (Annex 2) and fairly good infrastructure, the two most expensive
components of the primary school student unit cost. An ample, perhaps excessive, future supply
of teachers is ensured, with over 7,000 students currently at the School of Education of the
University of Panama and 1,000 at the teacher training institute (Escuela AIormal).
1.10 Primary school teachers in Panama have good fornal training in subject knowledge; about
80 percent of the teachers have Normal School degrees (secondary level) and almost all others
have university-level degrees, many of them pedagogical. Almost all of them attend two-week in-
'Panama has 9 Provinces, 67 Districts, one region and, until 1993, it had 5 10 Corregimientos. In 1993, the
county seat of the district of Santiago de Veraguas was split, and the new corregimiento of Canto del Llano
was formed, so today there are officially 5 11 corregimientos. This document uses existent data from the
original 5 10 corregimientos.



4
service training sessions every year of their career. These courses emphasize language and math,
but also include other disparate topics such as computer sdcills, folklore dances, and civil
protection, among others, that are indicative of the overall irrelevance and lack of focus of a large
part of the program. Such a program would be more useful if it were more sharply focused on the
learning needs of students. The most extreme example of this is the lack of pre- and in-service
training in multigrade teaching techniques, in spite of the fact that almost three quarters of all
primary schools in Panama have multigrade classes. Pre-service and in-service training in
multigrade techniques would maximize the strong pedagogical qualifications that most teachers
bring to the job, leading to a higher quality of education in multigrade classrooms.
1.11   Secondary school services are also free, but not yet mandatory. There are about 200,000
students, 10,000 teachers, and 223 schools; 17.4 percent of the enrollment and 39.6 percent of the
schools are private. Secondary education is organized in two cycles of three years each. The first
cycle (grades 7-9) covers general subjects and is part of the basic education program. The second
cycle (grades 10-12) has two tracks: (a) academic, including science and humanities sub-tracks;
and (b) professional-technical, with sub-tracks in commerce, industry, agriculture, homemaking
and cosmetology. Over the last five years, the percentage of students in each track has remained
relatively constant, with about 43 percent of the students enrolled in the academic track and the
balance enrolled in the professional-technical track (Annex 1).
1.12 Administration of the education sector is centralized. The Ministry of Education
(MOE) directs pre-school, primary, secondary and adults education. Vocational training is the
responsibility of the National Institute for Vocational Training (INAFORP) reporting to the
Ministry of Labor. The two public universities are administratively autonomous. MOE
establishes the norms and procedures for the administration of personnel and physical resources,
and defines the curricula, in-service teacher training and supervision. Each province has a
regional MOE office with representatives responsible for the administration of personnel and
physical resources, and a supervisor in charge of actions related to curricula, in-service teacher
training and supervision. Public education at all levels is financed by the national Government. In
the private sector, MOE authorizes the opening of centers for pre-primary, primary and secondary
education and regulates their functioning. Private universities must seek approval to open from
the University of Panama, the largest public institution of higher education.
1.13  Private schooling. Panama has a weak tradition of private schooling. Only 8 percent of
primary enrollment is private and, at the secondary level, the figure is as little as 17 percent . At
pre-school the situation is somewhat different since the private sector represents almost 30
percent of the students. Differences between private and public sector regarding repetition and
dropout indicators are noticeable. For the primary private schools, the repetition rate is only 0.7,
while the public sector figure is 10 percent. Disparities are also present in the drop out rates with
only 0.2 percent for the private sector and 1.7 percent for the public sector. At the secondary
level, the issue is not the drop out rate, similar in both sectors, but the failure rate, that is 11.4
percent for public and only 6.1 percent for private sector students. The above differences signal
the inequities in the quality of the education, which, in tum, rely heavily on inputs such as
educational materials, well trained teachers and good preparation for entering school.



5
(2) Key Issues
1.14  Generally good indicators hide the skewed expenditure pattem and management
shortcomings evident in poor quality and inadequate coverage. The gross enrollment rate at the
primary level is 105 percent, but only 28 percent in preschool (ages 3-5) and 77 percent at the
lower secondary level (grades 7-9). The skewed resource allocation pattern for education has the
effect of heightening disparities in income distribution. This is a common issue in many countries
in the region where a fixed share of budget resources is constitutionally mandated for higher
education. The Bank has started a policy dialogue with the Government to establish a more
rational allocation of budget resources among the different levels of education, and a study of this
problem has been proposed in the project.
1.15 Education Finance. Overall education spending in Panama has been consistently high in
recent decades, including the period of economic crisis in the second half of the 1980s. Spending
continues to be high today, at 5.5 percent of GNP and 16.4 percent of total public expenditures.
However, expenditure is disproportionately allocated. Higher education receives almost one third
of public education resources while serving only 10 percent of public school students. The 1.7
percent of total public education expenditures allocated to pre-primary schools is far below
intemational levels (Costa Rica spends 3.6 percent, and Mexico spends 6.1 percent). Subsidies
are disproportionately directed to those attending higher education institutions. Resources are
limited for those attending lower level educational institutions, where representation of poor
economic groups is broader. Studies in many countries demonstrate that labor earnings are
positively related to the level of education acquired. Therefore, the extent of cost recovery should
increase with the level of education. At US$ 1,400, the annual unit cost for higher education in
Panama is high in comparison to other middle-income Latin American countries with similar size
populations. And yet, university students are charged an annual fee of only US$ 50, that covers
only 3.6 percent of the real cost, and are given grants, regardless of need, to defray living
expenses (Annex 2).
1.16 Poor quality and inequitable distribution of education. Quality problems are not as
obvious in Panama as they are in many other countries in the region. There is a well qualified
teaching force, and a relatively low ratio of 25 students per teacher. Good textbooks are available
in the market, and teachers can select and recommend to their students those that are most
suitable for the curriculum. But the quality of education is not evenly distributed. Poor students
cannot purchase their books and usually do not find them in school libraries. Multigrade classes
are taught by teachers without specialized training in the methods of multigrade teaching. Since
multigrade classes are typical of remote rural comnmunities, it is generally the children of the poor
who attend such classes and receive a lower quality education. The consequence is an inefficient
system in which students take an average of 13 years to complete the nine-year cycle of primary
and lower secondary. When analyzing the poorest corregimientos of the country, inequity is
expressed in the highest drop out and failure rates, and lower female enrollment. Female
enrollment goes down to 46.9 percent, drop out increases to about 6.0 percent and reaches 29
percent in the 24 poorest of the 510 corregimientos. A simnilar situation occurs with the failure
rate which is less than 10 percent nationally, goes up to 12.3 percent in the poorest
corregimientos and is over 20 percent in 50 of them. The project will provide textbooks for poor
students and specialized training and teaching materials for multigrade teachers targeting the



6
poorest corregimlentos. It wili also develop a student achievement evaluation system (paras. 2.7-
2.13, 2.17-2.19).
1.17 Inadequate pre-primary education services. Inequities also exist in the availability of
educational benefits for the poor and the disadvantaged. Enrollment rates are high at the primary
level, but very few children have access to pre-primary educational services, even though early
educational experiences have long been recognized as having an important effect in improving
student performance at the primary level. Preschool education promotes school readiness, lowers
repetition and drop out rates, and improves academic skills in primary school. Pre-primary
education is offered mainly in kindergarten classes attached to the primary schools. Non-formal
models of preschool education have proven to be highly effective, at a considerably lower cost
than the formal models. But the CEFACEIs (para. 1.6) lack an appropriate curriculum for the
culture of the disadvantaged. The kindergarten curriculum is not easily handled by unqualified
community educators, and it does not provide for parental involvement in the early development
of the child. The Govermment has requested the Bank's assistance to provide low cost pre-
primary education services for the poor. The project will expand the CEFACEI system of non-
formal pre-primary education and provide it with child-centered developmental activities,
adequate educational materials, and practical training for the community educators (paras. 2.21-
2.33).
1.18 Unequal access to opportunities for the rural poor. Children in rural areas are often
forced to drop out of school, unless their parents can afford to send them to the nearest town for
the upper grades of basic education. While the Government considers it desirable for all children
to complete the basic cycle, many are denied access because of poverty. The Government
operates a program of scholarships for lower secondary students through IFARHU, and has
agreed to establish a new budget line for scholarships entirely targeted to the poor according to
the project's criteria. Thus 3,500 scholarships, in addition to the current 9,500, each one for a
three-year term, will be awarded every year (paras. 2.14-2.16).
1.19  Institutional weaknesses. The MOE has an adequate institutional structure for
administration and supervision of the public school system, at the central, provincial and district
levels. However, its capacity for information management, planning and policy-making is poor.
A proposed reform of the education system has been in preparation since 1979, when a
Commission was created for that purpose by the National Assembly. Last June 1995, the
National Assembly passed the Education Law which would: (a) reinforce MOE's role in defining
educational policy; (b) create an advisory body to the MOE, composed of representatives of
parents, the Catholic church, MOE and the teachers union; (c) extend provision of free education
to two years of pre-primary school; and, (d) provide a framework for strengthening the role of the
community in education and decentralizing some of the MOE's functions. These objectives are
fully consistent with the Government's policy positions as reflected in the Bank's sector report
(Report No. 13701-PAN, March 17, 1995), discussed in May 1995. The Government has
requested the Bank's assistance in strengthening its planning and policy-making capacity by
financing a series of policy studies to support the medium- and long-term reforms (paras. 2.34 and
2.35). It also plans to improve information management.



7
1.20 Dilapidated infrastructure. Primary school infrastructure compares favorably with that
of many other Latin American countries, but maintenance has been neglected. At the primary
level, about 350 classrooms are severely deteriorated and need to be replaced. About 1,700
classrooms need varying degrees of repair or rehabilitation (para. 2.20).
(3) Government Strategy
1.21 The development goals of the Government of Panama are a globally integrated economy
and a more equitable society, driven by sustainable private sector growth. The new
Administration's economic program, "Public Policies for Social Development with Economic
Efficiency", focuses on: (1) private sector development and employment creation; (2) fiscal
adjustment and public sector modernization; (3) poverty alleviation and human resources
development; and (4) environmental conservation.
1.22 Consistent with the econonic program, the Government's strategy for mitigating poverty
and inequality consists of four chief elements. The first is the introduction of conditions that will
revive sustainable growth. In this context, the economic program emphasizes reform policies that
will mitigate the bias against employment creation and reduce the high cost of the consumption
basket. In addition, the incentive framework is being altered to encourage increased agricultural
production and employment opportunities in the countryside, where most of the poor are located.
The second facet is improving efficiency and equity in social expenditures, especially in education
and health, targeting subsidies to the most vulnerable groups. Third is the introduction of social
safety net mechanisms like the Social Emergency Fund (FES), for the financing of community-
generated projects which create employment and provide basic social services to the most
disadvantaged groups in society. The fourth is institutional modernization and capacity building
of the public sector for the efficient use of public resources.
1.23 The Government's strategy for the education sector assigns top priority to basic education
and to ensuring equitable access for the poor to the fill benefits of education. In line with these
priorities, the short-term strategy calls for providing opportunities for poor children in the rural
and urban marginal areas to receive quality educational services, to achieve effective learning, and
to complete the nine years of the basic cycle. For the same purpose, the Government has decided
to extend access for the poor to pre-school education, in order to enhance their readiness and
increase their success in basic education, thus reducing grade repetition and promoting efficiency
of educational investments. The project addresses these Government concerns through the
reorientation of the scholarship program, the teacher training and textbook programs, and the pre-
primary education program (Annex 3).
1.24 In the longer term, the Government is contemplating deeper reforms of the education
system involving more equitable financing of educational costs, more active participation of
parents and NGOs in the management and financing of the schools, updating the basic education
curriculum to make it more relevant to the needs of society and the demands of the economy, and
developing MOE's institutional capacity for planning and policy-making. The project would
support these long term goals by: (a) financing studies to support the long-term policy decisions,
(b) providing technical assistance for the design and implementation of a Management



8
Information System and, (c) providing technical assistance for the design and implementation of a
Student Assessment System.
C. Lessons Learned and Rationale for Bank Involvement
(1) Lessons Learned
1.25  Project Design. Successful education projects in Latin America have been characterized
by simplicity and clarity in design. As this is the first Bank loan to the education sector in
Panama, it is particularly important that project components be well-focused. The objectives of
each component should be as independent and measurable as possible, with explicit timetables for
key actions. These lessons have guided the establishment of the project components and the
monitoring indicators of this project. The project focuses mainly on basic education comprising
pre-primary, primary and lower secondary education.
1.26 Targeting. The use of poverty indexes has been proven effective in focusing investments
on the poor. However, when a poverty index classifies geographical areas too broadly, such as
states or provinces, pockets with highly uneven poverty levels are created. Therefore, the current
project refined the poverty index, which originally classified districts by poverty level, so that it
can classify the corregimientos by poverty levels.
1.27 Pre-Primary School. Research and Bank operations have shown that kindergarten and
early childhood development programs can improve school readiness, lower repetition and drop
out rates and improve academic performance at higher levels of education. Disadvantaged groups
(rural children and children from families with low socioeconomic status) have the most to gain
from such programs. Reaching the home environment and encouraging parental involvement also
appear to strengthen the impact of the interventions. The proposed project would expand the
informal CEFACEI model (community-administered pre-primary centers staffed by apromotora)
in areas of dense population and train rural mothers to stimulate their pre-primary children in
areas of socialization and pre-school learning. The project will also finance the production and
broadcasting of radio programs to address parents and community educators about child rearing
practices. As these activities indicate, the project would focus exclusively on disadvantaged
groups and involve parents.
1.28 Textbooks and Instructional Materials. Experience has shown that well-designed
textbooks play an important complementary role in improving student's academic achievement.
The proposed project would therefore provide textbooks in four subjects for the poorest 41
pereent of students at the primary and lower secondary levels who have no access to textbooks,
as well as teacher guides to accompany the texts. In Mexico and other countries, classroom
libraries consisting of carefully selected titles have proven to be an effective learning tool,
particularly in the multigrade environment. The proposed project would therefore provide a small
library of 30 carefully selected titles (including dictionaries, atlases, textbooks and storybooks) to
all primary classrooms in the country. Finally, experience has shown that the provision of
instructional materials (such as pencils, crayons, paper and games), and teacher training in the use
of these materials, leads to more active learning and more productive use of the teacher's time.



9
The proposed project would therefore provide a package of essential instructional materials to all
of the new and existing CEPACEIs, to enhance the quality of pre-primary education.
1.29 Monitoring and Evaluation. Experience in Latin America has shown that the viability
and sustainability of student achievement improvements depends in large part on the
Government's monitoring and assessment capacity. As in most developing countries, official
educational achievement data collection is almost non-existent in Panama. The proposed project
would create an Education Assessment System to provide the necessary information for
improving the overall quality of the education system. Due to its inherently controversial nature,
the establishment of such a system requires strong institutional and public support; the proposed
project would address this issue by incorporating teacher training and a publicity campaign for the
evaluation program. In addition to supplying the data necessary to assess systemic weaknesses,
the system will permit an assessment of project impact. Scores in year one will reflect achievement
levels without project inputs, and the scores in year five will reflect achievement levels with
project inputs.
1.30   Sustainability. Both the Government's ability to continue financing recurrent costs and
the MOE capacity to manage change have determnined the sustainability of project benefits. The
proposed project addresses both of these issues by: (a) adhering to a simple project design, which
improves the allocation and use of existing educational resources; (b) educating the public about
the importance of different project components; (c) relying on community participation, most
specifically for the expansion of rural pre-primary education; (d) expanding enrollment through
the intensive use of existing educational facilities and reorienting the scholarship program toward
lower income groups; and (e) strengthening the Ministry of Education's supervisory capacity.
(2) Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.31  The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for Panama, discussed by the Board on
February 7, 1995, with the Panama Rural Health Project, adopts a selective strategy focused on
reviving sustainable growth and poverty alleviation. In human resource development, the Bank's
priorities are to expand coverage and improve the quality of basic education. The strategy calls
for a two-pronged approach. The ongoing Economic Recovery Loan would be the key
instrument to promote restoration of a viable medium-term fiscal framework and elimination of
policy distortions required to mount an efficacious poverty alleviation strategy. The lending
program should be devoted to direct interventions in support of poverty alleviation and human
resources development. The Bank recently approved a loan to support a Rural Health Project
(Loan 3841-PA) which provides for health care and nutrition supplementation for children and
mothers in the same disadvantaged groups targeted by the pre-primary component of the
proposed project. The project is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy and the
Bank's policy objectives. It will focus on poverty alleviation by providing students in the most
depressed areas of the country with essential educational inputs like textbooks and other learning
materials, and access to the benefits of pre-primary and basic education. In doing so, the project
will enhance the efficiency of the basic education system and increase the effectiveness of public
expenditures on education.



10
2. TIHE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Objectives
2.1   The objectives of the project are to: (a) improve the quality of basic education in the
borrower's territory; (b) improve equity of access to preschool education and basic education for
children in rural and poor urban areas; (c) expand the coverage of pre-school education through
community operated non-formal administrative models; and (d) strengthen the planning, financial,
supervision and policy-making capacity of MOE.
B. Project Target Areas
2.2   In order to compensate for poorer children's disadvantages in terms of access to better quality
education, the project will focus on corregimientos with the highest levels of poverty according to
representative indicators: poor housing conditions, less access to educational benefits, and nutritional
deficiencies. The percentage of indigenous population, as well as poverty-prone, overcrowded urban
areas, has been taken into consideration for targeting.
2.3   Corregimientos were chosen as targeting units so that project interventions can have the
maximum effect in poor areas. Targeting, through use of a poverty index, is critical to achieving
equity objectives. The project will target 185 corregimientos out of the 510, distributed over the
67 districts and covering 41 percent of the school population from grades 1 to 9 (Annex 4). An
effort will be made to update the poverty index based on outcomes of a planned Living Standards
Measurement Study to be supported by the Bank.
2.4   Among the 32 poorest corregimientos is the country's most populous (Belisario Porras),
an extremely disadvantaged zone on the outskirts of Panama City. However, 50 percent of the
school-aged basic education population lives in the first 238 corregimientos on the list (47 percent
of the total number of corregimientos). As a result, a large number of sparsely populated rural
corregimientos, as well as the most disadvantaged urban population centers, hold top priority
positions. These also include all corregimientos with a significant proportion of indigenous
inhabitants.
C. Project Components
2.5   The project has been organized into three components as follows:
(a) Improvement of Quality of, and Expansion of Access to, Primary and Lower
Secondary Education (US$ 44.41 million or 77 percent of total project costs) would include:
(i) the provision of training, with an emphasis on multigrade teaching techniques, for primary
education teachers; (ii) the provision of textbooks, activity cards for students in multigrade
classes, supplies and educational and instructional materials for basic education; (iii) redesign of
the scholarship program for primary and secondary education; (iv) development and
implementation of a student assessment system for basic education; and, (v) rehabilitation and
maintenance of primary schools and development and carrying out of a pilot program providing



11
for community participation in the rehabilitation and maintenance of schools for Primary
Education.
(b) Expansion of non-formal pre-school education (US$ 5.69 million or 10 percent)
would include: (i) the expansion of pre-school education coverage through community-operated
non-formal administrative models through, inter alia: (a) the strengthening of the Borrower's
program for community and family centers and (b) the implementation of a pilot program for the
training of the mothers in child development; and (ii) development of a public education program
through mass media to reinforce the training of volunteers and parents on issues concerning pre-
school education.
(c) Institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Education (US$ 7.90 million or 13
percent) would include: (i) strengthening of the planning, financial, supervision and policy-
making capacity of MOE; (ii) development and implementation of a Management Information
System (MIS) for MOE; and (iii) administration, monitoring, evaluation and auditing of the
project.
D. Project Description
(1) Component 1 - Improvement of Quality of, and Expansion of Access to, Primary and
Lower Secondary Education (US$ 44.4 million or 77 percent of total project costs).
2.6   The objective of this component is to assist the Government in improving the quality and
equity of basic education by providing textbooks and teaching materials for the poor and
rehabilitating infrastructure where necessary. In addition, it will provide in-service teacher
training in multigrade techniques, and reorient the existing scholarship program to target poor
students. These improvements will: (a) help reduce the inequalities in the content and quality of
public education; and (b) expand access to secondary school for the disadvantaged.
2.7   Subcomponent 1A: In-service Teacher Training (US$ 2.52 million). All multigrade
teachers, about 3,800, will receive training in multigrade methodology and the use of classroom
libraries and activity cards. The training offered seeks to counteract the limitations or lack of training
of teachers working with more than one grade level simultaneously and to enhance teachers' capacity
to make good use of learning materials and school libraries. A set of technical materials and teaching
activities will be prepared to contribute to the training of teachers handling several grade levels at the
same time; in the optimum use of activity cards and classroom libraries; in effective distribution of
available time; in better use of school and non-school space; in the use of strategies that include
community members in educational and curricular efforts; and in the use of active techniques and the
development of varied activities that help students to learn independently.
2.8   The teaching function of provincial and national supervisors will be consolidated to ensure
training as well as guidance and monitoring of daily practices, in order to institutionalize the
proposed actions. A group of 7 national supervisors and 148 provincial supervisors will form the
technical group in charge of training and monitoring responsibilities of about 3,800 teachers.



12
2.9   Two courses will be given in two phases: an intensive course during the vacation period,
with 30 classroom hours and 15 hours outside the classroom, plus a feedback session on the sixth
day; and a follow-up course comprised of seven Saturday sessions during the school year, six
classroom hours each session. These courses will be mandatory for supervisors and active
teachers. Each educator will participate in an additional, optional course, based on demand. The
multigrade teaching course will also be given to future teachers before they graduate from teacher
training. The mandatory courses will be: multigrade, teaching methods for specific subject
matters and a third course, to be determined according to specific needs. Efforts will also be
developed to strengthen group working techniques, specifically the preparation and
implementation of activity charts, resources and basic teaching materials (experience charts, felt
boards, numbers box, flash cards, pocket charts, logic blocks, etc.).
2.10  A specific workshop will be offered to 80 teachers on the preparation of activity cards to
help children construct their own individual and/or group learning program and to collect a set of
cards that can later be printed and distributed to all multigrade teachers. Participants will be
selected by provinces among multigrade-class teachers who have demonstrated relevant abilities
and skills. A library course will also be given to multigrade-class teachers and to lower secondary
school teachers. To supplement this training course, classroom research and reading
encouragement will also be planned (Annex 5).
2.11   Subcomponent IB: Provision of Textbooks and Teaching Materials for the Poor
(US$ 5.67 million). Textbooks and classroom libraries will be provided under the project.
Forty-one percent of all primary and lower secondary students will be provided with textbooks in
Spanish, mathematics, social studies and science at the rate of one per student. Only mathematics
and reading-writing textbooks will be supplied to the first two grades. After third grade, science and
social studies texts will also be included. Beneficiaries will be students from the poorest
corregimientos, as determined by the poverty index created for the project. Materials will be
school property on loan to the students. (Annex 4). Classroom libraries (containing reading and
reference books) will be delivered to primary and lower secondary schools of the targeted
corregimientos. All multigrade schools in the country will be provided with textbooks for the
students and classroom libraries.
2.12  Books and educational materials to be supplied to schools will be purchased on the
domestic and international markets. They will be evaluated to select those that best meet selection
criteria and to determine the changes that winning publishers should introduce in the special
versions to be distributed under the plan. Under the framework of the Project, the committee
staffs will receive training in textbook evaluation.
2.13   Activity cards guide the student in personal work and group exercises, and teach him/her
to consult the classroom library and conduct self-evaluations. Each classroom will also be
provided with a set twice during the life of the project (Annex 6).
2.14 Subcomponent 1C: Reorientation of the Scholarship Program (US$ 12.58 million).
IFARHU will establish a new budget line for scholarships entirely targeted to the poor according



13
to the project's criteria. Thus, 3,500 additional scholarships, to the current 9,500, each one for a
three-year term, will be awarded per year. During negotiatioins MOE provided the document
reflecting the commitment toward reorientation of the criteria to assign scholarships.
2.15   The majority of IFARHU's scholarships have been awarded only on the basis of academic
performance criteria (36 percent of the scholarships go to the best students and 42 percent are
awarded through a combined index in which poverty is not heavily weighted). In 1994 IFARHU
gave about 1,500 scholarships to primary students and about 8,000 scholarships to secondary
students. Scholarships for secondary students are usually given to students already registered in a
school. This modality of operation does not provide adequate incentives for sixth-grade students
in the poorest corregimientos, who are the most likely to drop out. It must be noted that only
151 corregimientos of the 510 in the country have secondary schools. Since the scholarships are
given to those who have already decided to continue schooling, the program is failing to deter
drop out. Under the project, 800 new scholarships of US$ 315 each will be awarded every year,
targeted to sixth-grade students in the corregimientos of the project. The scholarship will cover
living expenses for the student, who must relocate in order to attend a lower-secondary school.
The program will be advertised in schools before the end of the school year, in order to deter
post-primary drop out.
2.16  Under the project, IFARHU will also award about 2,700 new primary school scholarships
per year targeted to the corregimientos under the project. Again, the objective is to target the
students most likely to drop out due to poverty. The main criteria for selection will be that the
students live in the selected corregimientos. For primary and secondary scholarships, girls will be
given a share no less than 60 percent of the total amount. This will help to reduce the inequalities
in female enrollment in the poorest corregimientos (see paragraph 1.7). This subcomponent will
be financed entirely with resources from counterpart funding.
2.17  Subcomponent 1D: Development of Student Assessment System  (US$ 2.29 million).
Achievement tests will be prepared, validated and administered for the four basic subjects:
Spanish, mathematics, natural sciences and social sciences. Starting in 1996, these tests will be
administered to a random nation-wide sampling of 10 percent of third and sixth grade students in
primary school and of ninth and twelfth grade students in secondary school. In even years testing
will be administered to third and ninth grade students, and in odd years to sixth and twelfth grade
students. The results of achievement tests and social and emotional development tests will be
used by students, teachers and parents to improve curricular implementation. The assessment will
be carried out annually starting in 1996, with samples from 30 schools from all of the country's
provinces.
2.18  A test of school readiness in terms of cognitive, emotional and psychomotor skills will be
developed and validated for children entering the first grade of primary school. This test will be
administered to a stratified random sample of 5 percent of children entering first grade, beginning
in 1998. The data obtained will be used to assess current preschool education programs and
those financed by the Basic Education Project. Beginning in 1999, tests will be developed and
validated to measure social and emotional variables that complement the assessment of students'



14
achievements in primary and secondary schools. These tests will be administered to the same
sampling of students who take the achievement tests.
2.19  In order to better understand the factors that affect students' academic achievement,
studies will be performed to correlate the contextual variables of the student, teacher, school and
community with the outcomes of achievement and social and emotional development tests. This
research will use surveys and interviews that will be administered in parallel with achievement
tests, beginning in 1996. A system to assess Educational Quality provides data that should be
used to provide feedback on the educational system, thereby indicating any failures that may be
found, and to improve education. It is therefore important to ensure that the data produced are
being properly disseminated and are having a positive effect on the educational system. This work
will be performed beginning in 1997 and each year thereafter (Annex 7).
2.20 Subcomponent lE: Rehabilitation of Educational Infrastructure (US$ 21.34
million). Classroom repairs will constitute the bulk of the project work, in addition to the repair
of existing complementary rooms. About 350 severely deteriorated classrooms in primary schools
will be replaced by new ones. It is estimated that about 1,700 primary classrooms will be repaired.
A pilot program for school rehabilitation and maintenance under community responsibility will
also be financed for some 15 schools. The subcomponent includes provision and maintenance of
school furniture. The subcomponent will be executed by the Social Emergency Fund (FES) under
contract with the MOE. The FES is a Government agency, under the direct authority of the
Ministry of the Presidency. The institution was created in May 1990. In January 1993, FES was
given indefinite tenure. The largest share of FES spending has gone to projects that include
rehabilitation of schools, medical facilities and water and sanitation. It has previous experience in
promoting community involvement. The contract will be signed as a condition for effectiveness
(para. 6.2(e)). Priorities will be set by the Ministry and resources will be transferred according to
schedules for the completion of the works.
(2) Component 2 - Expansion of Non-Formal Pre-School Education (US$ 5.69 million or
10 percent).
2.21  This component aims to: i) expand coverage of non-formal pre-school education among
the poor to increase national coverage from 45.5 percent to nearly 75.0 percent (from 26,000 to
43,000 for five year-olds) and ii) improve the quality of non-formal pre-school education.
Coverage expansion will be based primarily on the CEFACEI (Family and Community Education
Center) model. At the same time, a pilot mother-to-mother program for rural areas of scattered
population will also be developed (Annex 8).
2.22  Subcomponent 2A: The CEFACEI Program  (US$ 5.26 million).
The project aims to open 400 new CEFACEIs, and serve approximately 20,000 pre-primary-age
children over the life of the project. A pilot Mother-to-Mother program will also be implemented,
to benefit approximately 1,800 pre-primary-age children in dispersed, rural communities. The
quality of non-formal pre-school education will be improved through intensive training of MOE
supervisors and promotoras, the distribution of specially designed manuals for promotoras,



15
children and parents, and the transmission of radio programs to reinforce the program and
encourage healthy child rearing practices.
2.23  A pyramid strategy will be developed for training and supervision of the program, to
facilitate the full involvement of the national, regional, provincial and local levels. The national
team will be trained by national and international technical assistance to design the manuals for
trainers and promotoras (one manual for trainers, one for promotoras, one for parents and one for
each child). The national team will train pre-school supervisors at the provincial level. Both teams
share the responsibility for conducting meetings in each community targeted by the project, to
convey the importance of pre-school education to parents, and form a local CEFACEI Parents'
Association.
2.24 The Parents' Association will be responsible for: i) finding a location for the CEFACEI;
ii) collaborating in the opening and functioning of the CEFACEI; iii) selecting the promotora
according to a profile specified by the Directorate of Initial Education; and iv) paying the
promotoras with the funds received from MOE every three months, the amount determined by
the number of children attending the CEFACEI. Thepromotora will be paid US$90 per child per
year. Implemented gradually, the program will open 100 new CEFACEIs per year. The financial
resources to pay the promotoras will be provided by the Government as counterpart funds to the
Bank loan. The financial resources will be transferred from the Ministry to each Parents'
Associations. For that purpose, each Association must register at the MOE to obtain legal
permission to receive funds and pay the promotoras.
2.25  Subcomponent 2B: Mother-to-Mother Pilot (US$ 0.43 million).
In rural areas with scattered population mothers will be encouraged to establish teams, under the
guidance of a Mother-Leader, and with the help of educational material and radio programs to
improve their child-rearing practices. Training of the mother-leaders will be the responsibility of
the supervisors and pre-primary education specialists in each provincial office of MOE. Ten
regional MOE supervisors will be trained for 10 days in year 1 and ten days in year 2 of the
project. They will train the 120 mother-leaders, chosen by the participating mothers, for seven
days each. Thirty mother-leaders will be trained each year. Each in turn will train 10 mothers on
a bi-weekly basis. It is estimated that each participating mother is raising an average of 2
children. Therefore, 2,400 children will benefit directly from the project.
2.26  As in the case of the CEFACEIs, a pyramid strategy will be developed for training and
supervision of the program, to facilitate the full involvement of the national, regional, provincial
and local levels. Interested communities will then select a woman to be trained as a mother leader.
Each supervisor will work with a group of about 15 mother leaders throughout their two-year
tenure. He/she will give an initial six-day training workshop, focusing on the following topics: i)
the circumstances of childhood in rural areas and in particular, in each community where the
mother leaders reside; ii) group dynamics; and iii) analysis of the Mother-to-Mother Program,
including materials and implementation. The supervisor will supplement this initial training with
four more three-day workshops over the two-year period, and periodic monitoring of the progress
of each mother leader.



16
2.27 Each participating mother will be instructed in a series of thematic units and provided with
a set of manuals for use with her children. Implementation of the Mother-to-Mother Program will
be gradual, concentrating efforts in only two provinces: Veraguas and Chiriqui.
2.28  Mother-leaders will be paid on a per mother-participant basis, that is, they will receive
US$ 32 per year for each participating mother they train in bi-weekly meetings over a ten-month
period. Funds to pay the mother-leaders will be transferred from the central office of MOE to the
bank accounts of the regional MOE offices. MOE's supervisors will monitor the number of
mothers being taught, in order to ensure appropriate payment of the mother-leaders. The
financial resources to pay the mother-leaders will be provided by the Government as counterpart
funding for the Bank loan.
2.29  The current curriculum will be revised to stress simple problem-solving, self-care and
school readiness skills. The emphasis will be on an open, flexible curriculum focused on the child
with parental participation. The strategy for producing a simple core curriculum will be to focus
on making each concept operational in training manuals. Two types of manuals will be produced:
manuals to train the promotoras in the use of the new curriculum, and manuals for the promotoras
to use in teaching. The manuals will be adapted to address rural mother-leaders and mothers
participating in the program, both of which have very little formal education. The adapted manual
will be a simplified, shorter version, relying heavily on drawings and visual messages. Thus, a
total of four manuals will be produced. A special working group will be formed within the
Directorate of Initial Education to produce the manuals with national and international technical
assistance. The project will finance the technical assistance to produce the manuals.
2.30 Radio Programs. The current pre-primary programs, both formal and CEFACEI, fail to
involve parents, which is crucial, as the dominant share of intelligence develops in early childhood.
Radio programs are an alternative to involve parents and enhance their ability to create learning
situations for their children, and it does it in a simple and appealing way. Radio programs also
provide promotoras and mother-leaders with effective reinforcement of the training and to the
written educational materials they will receive. Radio is accessible to large numbers of the poor.
Radio is part of their daily life, especially in remote areas. Radio is used in Panama to help
families to communicate messages, for example, messages from travelers from remote rural areas
to relatives in the towns. Radio is not as expensive as other media, like TV. Another advantage
is the fact that the country, as almost all countries, has human resources acquainted with the
production of messages for radio.
2.31   A set of 40 radio programs of 5-7 minutes each will be produced by a team of local and
international consultants during the first and second year of the project. The content of the
programs will be mainly instructions to perform a set of activities geared toward selected
objectives of early childhood development.
2.32  Local radio stations from the provinces are willing to broadcast the programs. It is
expected that some 11 small radio stations will participate in the project. Most of the stations will
provide the service free of charge. Each program will be broadcast twice every week and, at the
end of the 40th week they will be broadcast again.



17
2.33  Integration of Health. Nutrition and Education Services. All of the pre-school children
who will benefit from the project will be eligible to receive the nutrition and health services
provided under the Rural Health Project financed by the Bank (Loan 3841-PA). This Project
provides nutrition counseling, health monitoring and supplemental feeding in case of malnutrition
diagnosed at the community level. To accomplish these objectives a health promoter addresses
parents and other community members involved in educating children. The CEFACEI
promotoras, the children and their parents will benefit from the counseling and the supplemental
feeding in cases of diagnosed malnutrition.
(3) Component 3 - Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Education (US$ 7.9
million or 13 percent).
2.34  Subcomponent 3A: Development of Planning and Policy-Making Capacity (US$
0.34 million). The project will provide technical and financial assistance to MOE in order to
strengthen planning and policy-making capacity. Studies and technical assistance related to
institutional and managerial reform will be financed, specifically addressing: (a) how to foster
community participation; (b) optimization of budget resource allocation among the different levels
of education and, (c) delegation of MOE functions to provincial offices. These studies and
technical assistance should help to shape the broad objectives of the new Education Law,
regarding community participation and decentralization, and should make recommnendations for a
more equitable distribution of resources, outline measures to improve internal efficiency, and
explore ways of raising additional revenue. The findings will be discussed with the Bank and in a
series of seminars in Panama, which will formn the basis for future policy decisions. The terms of
reference, including the dissemination methods, will be included in the Operations Manual. The
project finances the design and implementation of a social communication campaign to support
meeting the objectives of the project. Terms of reference will be included in the Operations
Manual.
2.35 Subcomponent 3B: Development of a Management Information System (MIS) (US$
5.21 million). This subcomponent will finance the design, testing and introduction of an MIS to
assist and improve sector planning and personnel management. The MIS will include: human
resources administration, budgeting, accounting, purchasing, warehouses inventories, education
statistics and school map. Technical assistance will be provided to strengthen the technical
capacity of the units in charge of statistics and personnel. The subcomponent will finance the
training of MOE staff for implementing the new procedures and using the software for each of the
main areas mentioned above. It will also finance the acquisition of computers and the
establishment of a network.



18
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
Project Cost Summary
(USS mifion)
A. Improvement of Quality and Access in Basic Education
In-Service Teacher Training                                2.15      0.12      2.27
Educational Materials                                      1.14      3.90      5.04
Assessment System                                          1.18      0.89      2.07
Scholarships for poor students                             11.67     -         11.67
Pnrinary School Rehabilitation                             17.49     0.85      18.34
B. Expanding Non-Formal Preschool
Expanding the CEFACEI Program                              4.07      0.76      4.83
Mother-to-MotherPilotpram                                  0.24      0.15      0.39
C. Institutional Strengthening
Management Information System                              1.89     2.79      4.68
Dev. Planning & Supervision capacity                      0.21      0.10      0.31
Policy Making Studies                                     -         0.58      0.58
-oiest Coordination & Mana8ement           ~~1.18     0.35      1.53
TOTAL Baseline Costs                                        41.22     10.47     51.69
Physical Contingencies                                     2.08      0.52      2.60
Price Contingencies                                        3.08      0.64      3.71
3.1    The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is estimated at US$ 58
million equivalent, net of taxes, of which an estimated US$ 11.6 million (20 percent) is foreign
exchange (Annex 9). Investment costs are 67 percent of base costs and incremental recurrent
costs amount to 33 percent of base costs. Project costs were estimated at December 1995 price
levels and include physical contingencies of 10 percent for civil works and 5 percent for goods
and services. Price contingencies are based on a projected intemational inflation rate of 2.6
percent per year during the life of the project. These rates have been applied to both local and
foreign costs as Panama's currency is directly linked to the US dollar.
3.2    Estimated costs of equipment, furniture, textbooks and didactic materials are based on unit
prices of goods procured recently by MOE. Estimates for technical assistance and studies are
based on current rates for local and foreign experts. Cost estimates for training, and operating
costs are based on current costs or costing standards used by MOE. Estimated construction and
rehabilitation costs of schools throughout the country are based on current processes that derive
from periodic cost analyses for similar standards of construction in corresponding facilities.



19
B. Project Financing
3.3    The World Bank and the Government of Panama will finance the project. The following
table lists the proposed financial arrangements:
(US'S miOion)       a
A. Improvement of Quality and Access In Basic Education
In-Service Teacher Training                                2.52      -         2.52
Educational Materials                                      5.67      -         5.67
Assessment System                                          2.26      0.03      2.29
Scholarships for poor students                                       12.58     12.58
Priry School Rehabilitation                                16.74     4.63      21.34
-.             _4_4 V
B. Expanding Non-Formal Pre-school
Expanding the CEFACEI Program                              1.12      4.14      5.26
Mother-to-Mother Pilot Progr.                              0.29      0.14      0.43
C. Institutional Strengthening
Management Information System                              3.80      1.40     5.21
Dev. Planning & Supervision capacity                      0.34       -        0.34
Policy M4aking Studies                                    0.63       -        0.63
Project Coordination & Marnagement                         1.65      0.06     1.71
Note: Due to rounding the nwnbers may not add up.
3.4    The Governrment of Panama has requested a single currency loan with standard
amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for a fixed-rate US dollar single currency loan
because: (a) The US dollar is the Panamanian tender and therefore use of the dollar would avoid
foreign exchange risk; (b) the fixed rate offers a longer term predictability vis-a-vis LIBOR.
Panama is eligible for single currency loans under the expanded SCL program. Including this
loan, Panama will have financed $35 million of its $180 million FY96-98 lending program on
single currency loans, within the SCL volume guidelines established by the Board.
3.5    Revolving Fund in Local Currency. A revolving fund would be opened in the name of the
project, with an initial deposit from the Government as its up-front participation to the project
financing. As a conditionfor effectiveness, MOE willprovide evidence that the revolvingfund
has been established and that the deposit of counterpartfunds in the amount of $250, 000 has
been made (para. 6.2(C)).



20
C Incremental Recurrent Expenditures and Project Sustalnability
3.6   During the implementation period, the project will add an average of about USS 1.3
million per year to the recurrent cost budget of MOE. These incremental recurrent costs would
be generated mainly by fees for promotoras and rural preschool children, operation and
maintenance of infrastructure, equipment furniture, and office supplies. Recurrent costs generated
by scholarships for rural poor students will be covered by the education security fund, Seguro
Educativo. The incremental recurrent costs would be financed by the Government. The
Recurrent costs under the project, in December 1995 US dollars, are estimated as follows:
3.7   The effect of the recurrent costs on MOE's budget is small and could be easily absorbed by
MOE. Based on MOE's ordinary budget for 1995 (excluding investments and the Seguro
Educativo) of about USS214.6 million, and the forecast budget increments equivalent, at least, to
the forecast annual growth of GDP (3 percent in 1996, 3.5 percent form 1997 through 2000),
impact of these costs on the MOE ordinary budget would be 0.1 percent, 0.4 percent, 0.5 percent,
0.7 percent, 0.8 percent, for the successive years of implementation of the project. After project
implementation, 2001-2010, a yearly average of recurrent costs generated by the project are
estimated at US$2 million. This figure amounts to 0.7 percent of the MOEs recurrent cost
budget (Annex 10). With economic growth forecast to grow at a minimum of 3.5 percent
annually over the medium-term, the project should not present an undue financial burden on the
Governfment.
Incremental Recurrent Costs
(USS million)
Category                              1996  1997   1998    1999   2000   Total
Fees for Promoters (Pre-school Education)  0.28  0.54   0.82    1.12   1.52   4.28
Scholarships (Primary and Lower Secondary)   0.98  2.02   3.12    3.19   3.27   12.58
Operatig & Maintenance (classroom, eq., MIS) 0.02  0.45   0.46    0.62   0.63   2.18
T.TL.-.1.:-,1,,0...........  5.42                                           4
3.8   The impact of the proposed project on total educational expenditures and the ability of the
MOE to finance and sustain the resulting increase in recurrent costs was carefully discussed with
the Government during appraisaL At negotiations the Government agreed to include: () in
MOE's budget separate lines coveringfeesfor pre-primary community educators (promotoras
and madres ifderes) and operating and maintenance costs of the schools included under the
project; and (ii) in IFARHU's budget a separate line covering the scholarshipsfor Primary and
Lower Seconday students. As a conditionfor effectiveness, the Government will agree with the
World Bank to provide evidence that a budget line has been included in the Government 's 1996
budgetfor promotoras, scholarships, and operating and maintenance costs (para 6.2(b)).



21
D. Procurement
Procurement Arrangements
(US million)
. ;       g   ICC    ;.;              QtB :nB-              O TAL
::., ::. -: ~~.   ...   : -.  -.: : : ::. .   .   ..... . ;.f- 
Civil Works                                   11.6      7. 1                  18.7
(9.2)     (5.6)                 (14.8)
Equipment and Furniture           3.3                   1.02        -         4.3
(3.3)                (1.0)                  (4.3)
Trining                           .                     3.4'                  3.4
(3.4)                 (3.4)
Educational Materials             5.4'4       1.1       0.6'        .         7.1
(5.4)      (1.1)     (0.6)                 (7.1)
T.A., Consultants' Services and   -                     5.4'                   5.4
Studies                                                 (5.4)                 (5.4)
Scholarships & Promotoras Fees    -           -         -           16.9      16.9
Incremental Operating Costs       -           -         -           2.2       2.2
TOTAL                    ~~~~~~~~~8.7  17       1759.5S,0
'r' ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..     ''.... .    . ... ... .:
(8.7)   (100.3)    1.0                    350
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Due to rounding the numbers may not add up.
ICB - International Competitive Bidding; NCB - National Competitive Bidding.
I      Includes US$5.0 million equivalent, for lump sum, fixed-priced contracts for works valued less than US
250,000, to be awarded on a national shopping basis, and US$2.1 million equivalent for direct contracting
for works valued less than USS 50,000 in scattered and distant rural areas.
2      Shopping procedure, includes $870,00 school furniture, $40,000 office equipment, $60,000 vehicles, and
direct contracting $30,000.
3      Transportation and per diem for trainees. Not subject to procurement.
4      Includes USS 3.0 million equivalent for textbooks and teachers' guides and US$ 2.1 million equivalent for
classroom library books to be procured following ICB 2-stage procedures.
Printing services.
Printing services through shopping procedures.
7      Includes contracts for short and long-term consultants in PAU.
3.9    The project would include procurement of civil works for rehabilitation of school
infiastructure. The project would also finance the procurement of textbooks, teacher guides,
educational materials, training, school furniture, vehicles, and office and computing equipment.
Procurement of works and goods will be carried out according to the guidelines for procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995. In addition, the project would finance
studies and technical assistance services. For the selection of consulting services the project



22
would follow the guidelines for use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers of August 1981.
As discussed below (para. 4.1), the PAU in the MOE will have overall responsibility for
procurement under the project and the unit's staff will include a suitably qualified Procurement
Officer (Annex 11) who will have specific responsibility for the preparation of standard bidding
documents and the implementation of procurement according to the Bank's guidelines and the
Operations Manual. In addition, for civil works MOE will enter into an agreement with the Social
Emergency Fund (FES), which also has the institutional capacity to ensure that all procurement of
smaller works is executed in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
3.10 For the procurement of goods under ICB and ICB-2 stage, the Bank's SBDs of January
1995 will be used, with minimal changes acceptable to the Bank to address country- and project-
specific issues. For the procurement of works and printing services under national competitive
bidding (NCB), SBDs based on similar SBDs of the Bank for such procurement would be used,
with modifications as agreed with the Bank. For contracting of consulting firms, the Borrower
will use standard letters of invitation as agreed with the Bank and, as appropriate, the Bank's
standard forms of contract for Consultants of June 1995, for complex time-based assignments and
lump sum contracts. Small contracts with firms or individual consultants would be contracted
under standard short forms of contract to be agreed with the Bank. For carrying out procurement
activities, the project would include all relevant procedures in its Operational Manual. At
negotiations the MOE submitted a draft PA U Operational Manualfor Banik's review. As a
conditionfor effectiveness, the MOE would agree to put into effect the Operational Manual
(including all standard bidding documents) as agreed with the Bank (para. 6 2(d)).
3.11  Civil Works. Civil works contracts would consist mainly of repairs and substitution of
classrooms and rehabilitation of schools amounting to approximately US$ 18.7 million equivalent.
ICB is not expected but would be used when packages equal or exceed the equivalent of USS 1.5
million. Contracts for works would be packaged whenever possible in packages of more than
US$ 0.5 million equivalent and would be awarded following NCB procedures up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 11.6 million equivalent. For works valued at US$ 250,000 equivalent or less but
more than US$ 50,000 equivalent, lumpsum, fixed-price contracts will be awarded on the basis of
at least three quotations, up to an aggregate limit of US$ 5.0 million equivalent. For rehabilitation
or minor works in scattered, distant rural areas, direct contracting with local contractors may be
used for contracts valued under US$ 50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate limit of US$ 2.1
million equivalent.
3.12  Goods and Equipment. The project would finance contracts for goods with a total value
of US$ 4.3 million equivalent. When possible, goods (including computer hardware and
software) would be packaged in contracts of at least US$ 250,000 equivalent, and be awarded
following ICB procedures. In the evaluation of bids under ICB, a margin of preference in
accordance with Appendix 2 of the Bank's Guidelines may be granted to domestic manufacturers.
Awards will be made by individual package or by groups of packages, depending on the
combination that produces the lowest total bid evaluated cost. Contracts for goods costing US$
50,000 or less would be procured by local or international shopping procedures on the basis of
price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers, up to aggregate amounts not to exceed: (i)
USS 870,000 equivalent in the case of goods (other than vehicles and computer hardware and



23
software); (ii) US$ 60,000 equivalent in the case of vehicles; (iii) US$ 40,000 equivalent in the
case of computer hardware and software; (iv) US$ 600,000 equivalent in the case of printing
services. Vehicles will be purchased on the basis of price quotations from suppliers with service
and maintenance facilities in Panama. The request for quotations for these purchases should only
specify the type of vehicle and the performance requirements and not a particular vehicle
manufacturer. School furniture estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 2,000 per contract
and up to an aggregate of 30,000 equivalent or less may with the Bank's prior agreement be
procured under direct contracting.
3.13  Educational Materials. The project would finance about US$ 7.1 million of educational
materials. Separate tender packages of textbooks, teachers guides, classroom libraries and
printing services will be procured. Contracts for textbooks, teachers guides and classroom
libraries, with a total value of approximately US$ 5.1 million equivalent, would be awarded under
ICB two-stage bidding procedures in accordance with paragraph 2.6 of the Bank's Guidelines.
Bids for these materials will be called using bidding documents that describe the two-stage
procedure and are satisfactory to the Bank. At the first stage, the Borrower will invite unpriced
technical proposals on the basis of a conceptual design and technical specifications stating
minimum basic requirements. Samples of textbooks will be required with the technical proposal.
During the evaluation of these technical proposals, MOE will ask participating editors/publishers
for technical clarifications and will allow bidders to adjust their proposals to respond fully to the
requirements of the bidding documents. MOE will qualify those bidders whose proposals meet
the evaluation criteria or who are willing to modify their proposals to meet the final specifications.
At the second stage, bidding documents, amended as required to reflect understandings reached
with each of the bidders, will be issued to the qualified bidders, inviting them to submit final
priced proposals. The Borrower will award contracts by packages, on the basis of the criteria
stated in the bidding documents. Contracts for printing services for other educational and
assessment materials, valued at less than US$ 250,000 equivalent, may be awarded following
NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.1 million
equivalent.
Training, Technical Assistance and Studies
3.14  The project would finance approximately US$ 8.8 million equivalent to provide training,
technical assistance and studies. It would also finance contracts of short and long fixed-term
consultants in the PAU. MOE would employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The project will finance cost of
transportation and per diem for participants in training and monitoring. During appraisal broad
terms of reference for training programs, technical assistance and studies to be financed under the
project were reviewed and agreed with MOE. For contracting of these services MOE would
prepare specific terms of reference for each consultancy and use the standard invitation packages
and contracts agreed with the Bank (per para. 3.10).



24
Costs Not Involving Procurement
3.15  Approximately US$ 22.1 million of project costs, or approximately 38.0 percent, would
not involve procurement and include fees for promotoras, mother-leaders (community educators),
scholarships for students and incremental operating costs financed by MOE and training costs
(transportation and per diem) financed by the Bank.
Review by the Bank
3.16  Prior review of procurement procedures and documentation by the Bank would be
required for all tender packages and related contracts under ICB, ICB-2 step and LIB procedures.
The Bank would also review the first two NCB tender packages and related contracts for civil
works and printing services, regardless of value, and works packages and related contracts valued
at US$ 500,000 equivalent or more. It is expected that this review would cover nearly 54 percent
of contracts by value. All other contracts would be subject to review (ex post) by Bank
supervision missions on the basis of random sampling. For these contracts, MOE will follow the
procedures stated in Appendix 1, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Bank's procurement guidelines. All
TORs for technical assistance and studies would be subject to ex-ante review by the Bank.
Documentation for contracts with consultants' firms valued at or above US$ 100,000 and for
individual consultants, valued at or above US$ 50,000, as well as those of a critical nature, sole
source contracts, and amendments raising values above these thresholds, would also be reviewed
ex-ante by the Bank. All supporting documentation for these contracts would be retained by the
PCU. During appraisal it was agreed that procedures for ex-ante review to be followed by
executing agencies would be incorporated in the Operational Manual.
Special Provisions in Procurement
3.17  Country Procurement Assessment. A November 1993 assessment by the Bank of
Panama's procurement procedures indicates that they are not fully compatible with the Bank's
procurement guidelines. At negotiations agreement was reached that the principles indicated
below would govern all procurement of goods and services (para. 6 1 (d)).
A.    The following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods,
works and printing services for educational and assessment materials under International
Competitive Bidding:
1 .    Foreign bidders shall not be required to:
(a)   have a local representative for purposes of submitting bids;
(b)   be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; and
(c)   be associated with local contractors or suppliers.
2.    Bids may be:
(a)   submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail or courier or in
person; and



25
(b)   accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the standard
bidding documents.
3.    No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
4.    No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
5.    Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the lowest
responsive bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding
documents.
6.    After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time period, and
in form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
B.    The following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of works
and printing services for educational and assessment materials under National Competitive
Bidding:
1.    Bids may be:
(a)   submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail or courier or in
person; and
(b)   accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the standard
bidding documents.
2.    No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
3.    No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
4.    Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the lowest
responsive bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding
documents.
5.    Contracts for civil works shall provide for mobilization advances, whenever appropriate.
6.    After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time period and
in the form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
7.    Price adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank, may be included in work contracts.
C.    The following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of
consultants' services:
1.    Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
(a)   be locally registered as a condition of participation in the selection process;



26
(b)   give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or
person for the purposes of participating in the selection process or receiving an award,
except in connection with a joint venture arrangement where: (i) a sufficient number of
capable domestic firms or individual consultants exist to allow a foreign consultant
reasonable freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of either party to the joint venture
arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed manner or extent of participation;
and (iii) the foreign consultant is not required to associate itself with any specific named
domestic firms or individual consultants;
(c)   furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax
status for the purposes of submitting a proposal; and
(d)    personally submit their proposals.
2.    Consultants shall be selected from a short list of firms invited to submit proposals on the
basis of terms of reference, employment conditions and evaluation criteria clearly set forth in the
respective letter of invitation.
E. Disbursements
3.18   The proposed project would be implemented over a period of approximately 5 years and is
expected to be completed by June 30, 2001 and to close by December 30, 2001. The loan funds
would be disbursed as follows: civil works, 78 percent of expenditures for rehabilitation and
substitution; educational materials, office and computer equipment for the MIS, school furniture,
vehicles, printed materials and other goods, 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 95 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; printing services, 100 percent of local expenditures. Proceeds of the loan would also be
disbursed for training, consultants, studies and technical assistance and fixed-term staff in PAU at
100 percent. Retroactive financing of up to US$3.0 million (8.6 percent of the total loan amount)
would be provided to help cover eligible expenditures made after February 1, 1996.
3.19   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower, for: (a) expenditures for goods, works, printing services, and consultants' services
under contracts costing less than the equivalent of: (i) $50,000 in the case of goods, $250,000 in
the case of printing services, and $500,000 in the case of works (except the first two contracts),
to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of NCB; (ii) $100,000 in the case of consulting firms'
services; and (iii) $50,000 in the case of individual consultants' services; and (b) payments made
for training activities provided under the project, such as: (i) the rental of training facilities; (ii)
transportation expenses of trainees and MOE staff to and from the training site and subsistence
expenses for such trainees and trainers; (iii) fellowships for training courses to be provided in the
Borrower's territory or abroad; and (iv) study tours in the Borrower's territory or abroad. SOEs
should contain information as agreed upon with the Bank and supporting documentation related
to SOEs would be retained by the PCU for periodic inspection by the Bank and external auditors.



27
3.20 A Special Account in US dollars with an initial deposit of US$ 2.0 million would be
established at the National Bank of Panama. The maximum authorized allocation would be US$
2.0 million after aggregate disbursements have reached US$ 5.0 million. The Special Account
should be replenished monthly and should be used for all transactions with a value of less than 20
percent of the amount advanced to the Special Account. Normal documentation requirements
apply, except that in addition, a copy of the bank statement from the institution holding the
account, detailing the transactions made and reconciled by the borrower, would accompany each
replenishment request.
F. Accounting and Auditing
3.21  MOE and FES will establish and maintain separate project accounts and records for
project expenditures. The PAU will maintain a consolidated account of all expenditures under the
project. These accounts, including accounts for subprojects administered by FES, will be audited
annually by independent auditors, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, with terms
of reference approved by the Bank. The audit reports, which will include a separate opinion on
the adequacy of Statement of Expenditures and on the Special Account.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation and Management
4.1   The project will be under the general direction of MOE. The General Secretary has
overall responsibility for ensuring diligent, efficient and timely project implementation. MOE has
already appointed a Project Coordinator, to the Bank's satisfaction, for the Project Administration
Unit (PAU), who reports to the General Secretary. The PAU will be responsible for preparing,
monitoring and evaluating the implementation plan. In particular, the Government agreed at
negotiations that the PA U will: (i) conduct Annual Project Reviews, produce an annual project
implementation review report andprepare an annual implementation plan for the following
year, starting in July 1997; (ii) furnish to the Bank, during the month of August 1996, a budget
and an investment plan for, and the targets to be achieved in, the implementation of the project
in 1997 and exchange views with the Bank on said budget, plan and targets, by no later than
September 30, 1996; (iii) prepare a project implementation completion review report; and, (iv)
processing of documentation requiredfor the procurement of goods (other than furniture and
equipment for primary schools, which will be done by FES) and consultants' services under the
project and the disbursement of Loan proceeds (para. 6.1(e)). The PA U will be staffed with,
inter alia, a Project coordinator, a Project accountant and a procurement officer, all with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.1 ()). Under the DGE (Direccion
General de Educacion), the Curriculum Directorate (Direccion de Curriculo, DC) will implement
two subcomponents: Provision of Textbooks and Educational Materials for the Poor, and In-
service Teacher Training. The Education Assessment System will be the responsibility of the



28
General Directorate for Educational Planning (Direccion General de Planeamiento Educativo,
DGPE). Expansion of pre-primary coverage will be the responsibility of the Initial Education
Directorate (Direccion de Educacion Inicial, DEI) and the scholarship reorientation
subcomponent will be implemented by IFARHU, Institute for Training and Progress in Human
Resources (Instituto para la Formaci6n y Aprovechamiento de Recursos Humanos - LFARHU).
IFARHU, created in 1965, is an institute with patrimony under MOE's supervision, that
administers scholarship programs for the secondary and university levels. It has a well-trained,
experienced staff. The borrower shall enter into an agreement with IFARHU, satisfactory to the
Bank, which provides for the provision to IFARHU of the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required to enable IFARHU to carry out the scholarship reorientation subcomponent.
To assist in the construction, rehabilitation, equipment and furnishing of primary school
classrooms in the rural areas, MOE will enter into agreement with the FES. In existence for 4
years, FES has recently been restructured with technical assistance from IDB and UNDP. The
Bank's appraisal mission concluded that IFARHU and FES have adequate institutional capacity to
implement their respective subcomponents. Signing of the agreements between IFARHU and
MOE on the implementation of the scholarship reorientation subcomponent, and between FES
and MOE on the primary school rehabilitation and maintenance subcomponent, respectively,
would be a condition for effectiveness (para 6.2(e)).
B. Project Monitoring and Supervision
4.2   Project Monitoring. Outcome and Impact indicators and the Project Implementation
Schedule will guide project management, monitoring and supervision (Annexes 12, 14 and 15.).
4.3   Annual Progress and Investment Plan Review. The annual review to be prepared by
the PAU in July each year, starting in 1997 would focus on overall project implementation,
technical assistance, delivery of services (training, educational materials, infrastructure),
disbursement and procurement issues. As conditions for effectiveness, MOE will submit a
detailed project implementation plan for 1996 for all components (para. 6. 2(a)). At
negotiations, MOE agreed: (a) to produce an Annual Implementation Plan for the following
year starting July 1997 and an Annual Project Implementation Report, starting in July 1997.
The Annual Implementation Report will include cumulative information from the beginning of
the project; (b) to conduct annualproject reviews starting in July 1997. The reviews would: (i)
analyze the previousyear 's project performance based on an activity report and budget
allocation; and (ii) analyze the proposed subsequent year 's investment plan and budget,
including staffing, contracts, annual research plans and their TORs and schedules for delivery
of services (para. 6. 1(a));and (c) furnish to the Bank, during the month of August 1996, a budget
and an investment plan for, and the targets to be achieved in, the implementation of the project
in 1997 and exchange views with the Bank on said budget, plan and targets, by no later than
September 30, 1996 (para. 6.1(b)).
4.4   Mid-Term Review. The third annual review, in 1999, would be the mnid-term review and
it would assess project performance regarding output indicators (delivery of services) and process
indicators (critical tasks). It would assess the activities and information gathered in order to



29
conduct the impact evaluation at the end of the fifth year of the project. At negotiations the
borrower agreed to conduct with the FES and the Bank, under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank a mid-term review of the implementation of the project and its impact, prepare an
action plan acceptable to the Bank to incorporate lessons learnedfrom the review, and
implement it (para. 6. 1(c)).
4.5   Impact Evaluation. The following is the expected impact of the project on selected
quality, equity, efficiency and coverage indicators. The expected quality improvements are: (a)
increment on the levels of achievement in Spanish, Mathematics, Social Sciences and Natural
Sciences by 10-15 percent from the baseline to be established in 1996; (b) increment on time
spent on learning activities at school after delivering the project inputs; (c) changes in the quality
of interactions between mothers and children, as perceived by the mothers. The expected equity
improvements are: (a) a decrease in the gap between poorest and richest corregimientos in
repetition and dropout rates. Dropout rates in the poorest corregimientos are expected to
decrease from 6.2 to the current national average of 4.6. The expected improvement of efficiency
will be a decrease in the average number of years required to complete the basic education cycle
(1-9) from current 12.87 to 12 years. The expected pre-primary coverage improvement will be an
improvement from current 45 percent to 75 percent (Annex 12).
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benerits and Economic Returns
5.1   The main benefits of the project will be an increase in future earnings due to improved
productivity, especially for students from low-income family and rural areas. Furthermore, the
project would also produce benefits that would accrue to society at large beyond the project
beneficiaries which are difficult to quantify, but which would contribute to poverty alleviation,
especially in rural areas. The social internal rate of return (IRR) for the improvement of basic
education quality component (excluding scholarships) is 19%. Given the high percentage of the
IRR for this component, it is economically feasible and definitely justifiable to undertake the
project (Annex 13).
5.2   The savings from the preschool component are very encouraging. The annual average
cost per formal preschool child is US$288 based on the Ministry of Education's 1993 data. With
the CEFACEI program, the cost per child is only US$124. The project would provide preschool
education for 22,000 preschool-age children during the life of the project. The savings from
CEFACEI program is about US$3.5 million. With the mother-to-mother program, the cost per
child is US$243. This program would benefit 3,000 children in rural areas, thus, the savings from
this program is US$135,000. Combining the savings from CEFACEI and Mother-to-Mother
programs, the total savings for the component will be US$3.6 million. This is not only significant
savings on public expenditures, but also an efficient way of improving equity in preschool
education and alleviating poverty, especially in the rural areas.



30
5.3   Another major savings would come from the lower secondary education scholarship
program. The rationale of the program is to provide financial support to students from the rural
low-income families, thus allowing them to attend lower secondary schools. The amount per
scholarship is US$315 per year. The total costs for secondary scholarship programn would be
about US$3 million over the life of the project. Comparing the costs of building more schools to
accommodate the same number of students, the total cost would be on the order of US$19.5
million. Obviously, the cost for building schools is much higher than the cost for scholarships.
Savings from the scholarship program compared to the option of building more schools would be
about US$16 million. (Annex 13).
B. Impact on Women
5.4   Approximately half of the children who would benefit from an improved quality of
educational services would be girls; their access to higher levels of education and better work
opportunities would thus improve. The selection criteria for scholarships will benefit girls over
boys (at least a 60% awarded to girls) to raise female enrollment. It is expected that the targeted
educational inputs will decrease the gap between girls and boys in termns of repetition, drop out,
failure rates and enrollment. Further benefits can also be expected, as research has shown that
increasing the education levels of women has a significant positive effect on the health status and
the educational attainment of children, and also contributes to lower fertility.
C. Environmental Impact
5.5   The project will have no direct environmental effects, and has been classified as C.
D. Participatory Approach
5.6   As the parental role is crucial in early childhood development, this project incorporates
parents in the delivery of the pre-primary curriculum. The project will support community-
administered CEFACEIs, and give parents and communities a prominent role in administering the
funds to pay the community educators.
E. Project Risks
5.7   The first risk is the limited managerial and administrative capacity of MOE. This risk will
be attenuated through: (a) the appointment of experienced managers to head the implementation
unit; (b) the training of staff involved with the project in administrative tasks; (c) the preparation
of a detailed manual of project operating procedures; (d) the establishment of clear and detailed
monitoring indicators for the project and explicit timetables for key actions; (e) the design of a
simple procurement and disbursement program for textbooks and infrastructure, the two largest
expenditures. The second risk is the limited capacity of the MOE for planning and implementing
projects on a large scale. This risk will be attenuated through the provision of technical assistance



31
for each component and reliance on external experts (national and international) to implement
some of the components. The provision of technical assistance will strengthen MOE's capacity
for making policy decisions. The contracting of principal activities such as implementation of the
evaluation system or textbook production will ensure quality and free the MOE of direct
responsibility for implementation.
F. Program Objective Category
5.8   The project falls under the Program Objective Category of poverty reduction and would
support a program of targeted interventions as part of the Government's national policy of
equitable access to education opportunities, by channeling resources especially to poor and rural
areas, thus contributing to poverty reduction and the development of human resources.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   During negotiations the Government agreed to:
(a)   conduct Annual Project Reviews with an annual project implementation review
report and prepare an annual implementation plan for the following year, starting
in July 1997 (para. 4.3);
(b)   furnish to the Bank, during the month of August 1996, a budget and an investment
plan for, and the targets to be achieved in, the implementation of the project in
1997 and exchange views with the Bank on said budget, plan and targets, by no
later than September 30, 1996 (para. 4.3);
(c)   conduct a mid-term review in 1999 (para. 4.4);
(d)   follow the Bank Procurement Guidelines for all procurement of goods and services
under the project and apply the Special Provisions for procurement of goods and
consultant services, which differ from the national procedures, to the project
implementation(para. 3.17);
(e)   maintain within MOE a Project Administration Unit with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.1);
(f)   ensure that the PAU is at all times staffed with essential staff satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 4.1);
(g)   include: (i) in MOE's budget separate lines covering fees for pre-primary
community educators (promotoras and madres lideres) and operating and



32
maintenance costs of the schools included under the project; and (ii) in IFARHU's
budget a separate line covering the scholarships for Primary and Lower Secondary
students (para.3.8)
6.2   As conditions for effectiveness the borrower will:
(a)   submit a detailed project implementation plan for 1996 for all components (para.
4.3);
(b)   agree to provide evidence that a budget line has been included in the 1996
Government's budget for promotoras, scholarships, and operating and
maintenance costs (para. 3.8);
(c)   provide evidence that the revolving fund has been established and that the deposit
of counterpart funds in the amount of $250,000 has been made (para. 3.5);
(d)   put into effect the Operational Manual (para. 3.10); and
(e)   ensure that the implementation agreements between MOE and FES and MOE and
IFARHU have been signed (para. 2.20).
6.3   Recommendation. Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a loan of US$ 35.0 million to the Republic of Panama.
ANNEXES
1.    Education Statistics
2.    Sector Financing
3.    Policy Matrix
4.    Targeting
5.    Multigrade Teacher Training
6.    Textbooks
7.    Student Assessment
8.    Pre-primary
9.    Project Costs and Financing
10.   Recurrent Cost implications
11.   Project administration Unit
12.   Project Impact and Output indicators
13.   Economic Benefits
14.   Project Implementation Schedule
15.   Supervision Plans and Reviews
16.   Documents in Project Files



33                                            ANNEX 1
Education Statistics
EDUCATION STATISTICS
Table 1: School Enrollment Trends 1970-92
Pre-school             Primary                    Secondary                University      Other
Year   Total   Gross    Total    Gross    Drop    Total       Gross      Drop      Total    Gross      Total     Total
enroll-  enroll-  enroll-  enroll-    out    enroll-    enroll-   out rate   enroll-   enroll-   enrotl-   for
ment   ment    ment    ment    rate         ment       ment                ment      ment      ment      Systent
ratio            ratio                        ratio                         ratio
1970      7       8      255      105        2.1      79       40         N/A.       9        6          4       354
1980     18      17      338      107        2.2    171        61          6.7      40       16         15       583
1983     26      24      336      105        2.5    176        60          5.7      45       16         12       595
1986     30      27      344      107        2.2    187        61          4.3      60       19         l        632
1987     33      30      346      107        2.1    190        61          5.6      55       17         11       634
1988     33      29      345      106        2.8    190        61          6.7      51       16          11      631
1989     32      28      350      107         1.6    190       61          3.8      50       15          12      634
1990     31      27      351      106        1.8    196        63          5.3      53       15         11       641
1991     34      29      350      105        1.6    198        63          5.7      58       17         11       651
1992     33      28      356      105        1.5    201        64          5.5      63       18          12      663
Note: Gross Enrollment and Drop Out Numbers are Percentages; Total Enrollment Numbers are in thousands.
Source: MOE, Statistics Department.
Table 2: School-Age Population, Students, Enrollment Rate by Level of Education, 1992
School-Age                      Enrollment
Students                Population        Students      Rate
Pre-school                  360,071        33,288          57.9 gross
Nursery School             302,581         7,120           2.3  net
Kindergarten                57,490        26,168          45.5  net
Primary                     337,495       356,247         105.0 gross
90.9  net
Secondary                   316,005       201,047          63.6 gross
53.0  net
University                  250,097        63,288          25.3 gross
Source: MOE, Statistics Department
Table 3: Pre-School, Primary and Secondary School Coverage by Province
Province                Pre-School             Primary Net             Secondary Gross
Net Enrollment            Enrollment             Enrollment Ratio
Ratio                   Ratio
San Blas                          NiA.                     64.6 _                    20.6
Darien                            39.87                    96.4                      21.1
Bocas del Toro                    31.06                    98.0                      33.8
Veraguas                          5_1.66                   90.9                      58.1
Chiriqui                         41.54                     89.4                      61.1
Cocle                             48.96                    97.0                      47.1
Herrera                           59.54                    84.6                      59.6
Colon                            49.75                     98.3                      71.0
Los Santos                        55.03                    92.5                      54.3
Panama                            42.67                    91.9                      73.7
N/A: Not available.
Note: Provinces are listed in order of poverty with the poorest province listed first The Povcrty Index is comprised of three
variables: housing, education and health. (See Targeting Annex for a detailed explanation)
Source: MIPPE.



34                                     ANNEX I
Education Statistics
Table 4: Private and Public Schools and Enrollment by Education Level, 1993
Schools                            Students
Total         Percent Private        Total       Percent Private
Pre-School                 894                31.4             34,044            29.3
Primary                   2,744               5.0             356,247             8.5
Secondary                  376                39.6            205,817             17.4
Source: MOE, Statistics Department.
Table 5: Student/Teacher Ratio; Student/School Ratio and Teacher/School
Ratio by Levels of Education, 1992
_  Students/Teacher       Students/School      Teachers/School
Pre-school                 23                  37.2                 1.6
Primary                    25                 129.8                 5.2
Secondary                  20                 901.5                45.3
Source: MOE, Statistics Department.
Table 6: Pre-Primary Students by Age, 1992
Percent Of     Number Of
Students By      Students
Agte            Age             ublic        Lacantes      Maternales    Pre-Jardin        Jardin
One year         0.02            4              4               0             0                 0
2 years          0.04            8              0               8             0                 0
3 years          0.27           56              0              56             0                 0
4 years          3.50          736               0              0           736                 0
5 years         78.72        16,560             0               0             0            16,560
6 years         17.22         3,623             0               0             0             3,623
7 years          0.23           49              0               0             0                49
Total          100.00       21,036
Source: MOE, Statistics Department.



35                                      ANNEX 1
Education Statistics
Table 7: Pre-School Coverage by Province
Province          Net Enrollment      Gross Enrollment        Poverty Index
San Bias                     N/A.                 N/A.                   19.1
Darien                       39.87                50.69                  29.9
Bocas del Toro               31.06                39.48                  47.3
Veraguas                     51.66                65.63                  52.3
Chirigui                     41.54                52.78                  67.9
Cocle                        48.96                62.19                  71.8
Herrera                      59.54                75.64                  80.1
Colon                        49.75                63.19                  84.8
Los Santos                   55.03                69.90                  85.7
Panama                       42.67                54.23                  94.9
Total                        45.52                57.83
N/A.: Not available.
Note: Provinces are listed in order of poverty with the poorest provincc listed first. The Poverty
Index is comprised of three variables: housing, education and health. (Sec Annex 1 for a
detailed explanation)
Source: MIPPE.
Figure 1: Pre-School Gross Enrollment Rate in Selected Countries
100 
-go
ixo
780 -_____ 
so                                            -
70                      -        -
a 30                          e                     e
20
P                                            10
20
E
' 1990
Country
Source: UTNESCO, 1993b
Table 8: Primary Education Coverage in Selected Countries (Percent)
Country                     Gross Enrollment                  Net Enrollment
Panama'                                        104                              90
Chileb                                         98                               87
Colombia'                                     III                               74
Costa Rica'                                   102                               97
Venezucla'                                     99                               9 1
a 1991
b 1992
C 1990
Source: UNESCO, 1993b.



36                                      ANNEX 1
Education Statistics
Table 9: Primary Education Coverage by Province, 1993
Province                      Net Enrollment                   Poverty Index
San Bias                                      64.6                             19.1
Darien                                        96.4                             29.9
Bocas del Toro                                98.0                             47.3
Veraguas                                      90.9                             52.3
Chiriqui                                      89.4                             67.9
Cocle                                         97.0                             71.8
Herrera                                       84.6                             80.1
Colon                                         98.3                             84.8
Los Santos                                    92.5                             85.7
Panama                                        91.9                             94.9
Note: Provinces are listed in order of poverty with the poorest province listed first.
Source: MOE, Statistics Department.
Table 10: Primary Education Repetition and Drop out Rates for Public and Private
School
Rcpetition Rates                  Drop out Rates
Province          Public          Private           Public           Private
San Blas               18.3             n.a.             3.3              n.a.
Darien                 22.3             n.a.             3.3              n.a.
Bocas del Toro         21.7             0.5              2.0             14.7
Veraguas               15.0            15.0               1.7             0.2
Chiriqui               10.1             0.5              3.4              0.3
Cocie                   9.5             0.5              0.7              0.7
Herrcra                10.1             0.4              1.4              n.a.
Colon                  10.3             1.2               1.3             n.a.
Los Santos              6.1             n.a.             1.4              4.9
Panama                  6.8             0.6               1.2             n.a.
Total                  10.4             0.7               1 .7            0.2
n.a.: Not available.
Note: Provinces are listed in order of poverty with the poorest province listed first.
Source: MOE. Statistics Department, 1992.



37                                    ANNEX 1
Education Statistics
Table 11: Primary Enrollment by Sex, by Corregimiento
(percent)
Grade        Corregimientos     Males       Females    Total        Males      Females
First
Targeted           17358       15031       32389      53.6        46.4
Rest               20331       17948       38279      53.1        46.9
Country            37689       32979       70668      53.3        46.7
Richest 10%        1436        1273        2709       53.0        47.0
Second
Targeted           14425       12466       26891      53.6        46.4
Rest               17601       16101       33702      52.2        47.8
Country            32026       28567       60593      52.9        47.1
Richest 10%        1866        1682        3548       52.6        47.4
Third
Targeted           12675       11141       23816      53.2        46.8
Rest               16290       15030       31320      52.0        48.0
Country            28965       26171       55136      52.5        47.5
Richest 10%        1755        1632        3387       51.8        48.2
Fourth
____X______ Targeted        10942       9804        20746      52.7        47.3
Rest               14689       13648       28337      51.8        48.2
Country            25631       23452       49083      52.2        47.8
Richest 10%        1589        1518        3107       51.1        48.9
Fifth
__________ T Targeted               9802        8856        18658      52.5        47.5
Rest               14651       13820       28471      51.5        48.5
_   Country            24453       22676        47129      51.9       48.1
Richest 10%        1629        1527        3156       51.6        48.4
Sixth
Targeted           9368        8538        17906      52.3        47.7
Rest               14734       14775       29509      49.9        50.1
Country            24102       23313       47415      50.8        49.2
Richest 10%        1700        1742        3442       49.4        50.6
Total
Targeted           74570       65836       140406     53.1        46.9
Rest               98296       91322       189618     51.8        48.2
Country            172866      157158      330024     52.4        47.6
Richest 10%        10547       9917        20464      51.5        48.5
50.9       49.1



38                                         ANNEX 1
Education Statistics
Table 12: Primary School Student Failure, Repetition and Drop out in Public and
Private Schools
Repeaters      Grade 1  Grade 2   Grade 4   Grade 4   Grade 5  Grade 6   Total
Public                 19       16.4      12.6        8.3       5.6         2       11.4
Private               0.4        0.6       0.4        0.3       0.5        0.2       0.4
Dropout
Public                3.3        1.9       1.7        1.1         1        1.1       1.7
Private              -0.8         1        0.2        1.4      -0.8       0.3        0.2
Failure
Public               18.5       14.4      10.3        7.7       5.9        1.5      10.4
Private               1.2          1       0.6        0.5       0.4        0.2
Source: MOE, Statistics Department.
Table 13: Primary School Students Failure, Repetition
and Drop out in Rural and Urban Areas 1993
Repeaters      Grade I  Grade 2   Grade 4   Grade 4   Grade 5   Grade 6   Total
Rural                22.5       19.1      15.4        9.8       6.3       2.5         14
Urban                11.8       11.2       8.2        6.8       4.8        1.4       7.9
Drop out
Rural                 3.6         2        1.9        1.6       1.6        1.6       2.2
Urban                 2.6        1.6       1.3        0.4       0.2        0.4       1.1
Failure
Rural                22.2       17.3      13.6         9        6.6        1.7      13.8
Urban                11.1        8.8       6.2        5.8       4.9        1.1       6.6
Source: Statistics Department.



39                                       ANNEX I
Education Statistics
Table 14: Number of Classrooms by Shift and Province, 1992
Classrooms in Usc
Provinces          Classrooms'             One Shift            Two Shifts           Three Shifts
Total               12,472                11,363                 1,817                  368
Bocas del Toro             626                    573                   171                   20
Cocle                     1,293                  1,192                  34                    36
Colon                      843                   767                    182                   29
Chiriqui                  2,333                 2,141                   136                   81
Darien                     483                   430           _                              21
Herrera                    704                   594                    2                     25
Los Santos                 662                   553           __30
Panama                    3,497                 3,241                  1,221                  46
Veraguas                   1,799                 1,640                  71                    67
San Blas                   232                   232           __13
Panama en Cifras reports 11,181 classrooms. The Planning Direction of the Ministry of Education reports
12,472; 970 classrooms are being used for secondary school; classrooms in use: 11,363+1,817 (second shift)+
1,263 (private schools classrooms)= 14,443.
Table 15: Qualirications of Primary Education Teachers, 1990 (Percent)
Primary                    Other than       Special
Province      Teacher       Pedagogy       Pedagogy       Subjects       Other          Total
Group 1           90.6           0.4            4.2           0.8            4.2          100.0
Group 2           84.3           2.8            9.0           2.4            1.3          100.0
Group 3           72.8           3.9     j     16.3           3.8            3.2          100.0
Note: The three groups were formed following the poverty map.
Group 1 = the poorest provinces (San Blas, Darien, Bocas del Toro).
Group 2 = the middle-income provinces (Veraguas, Chiriqui, Cocle, Herrera).
Group 3 = the less poor (Colon, Los Santos, Panama).
Source: Office of Statistics and Census, Cultural Position, Ministry of Education, 1990.0 0
Table 16: Secondary Gross Enrollment Rates, 1992
Province                       Gross Enrollment Rate
San Blas                                                20.6
Darien                                                  21.1
Bocas del Toro                                          33.8
Vcraguas                                                58.1
Chiriqui                                                61.1
Cocle                                                   47.1
Herrera                                                 59.6
Colon                                                   71.0
Los Santos                                              54.3
Panama                                                  73.7
Total                                                   63.6
Note: Provinces are listed in order of poverty, wvith the poorest province listed first.
Source: Comptroller General of the Republic, 1993, and mission estimates.



40                                      ANNEX 1
Education Statistics
Table 17: Secondary Ed cation Student, Teacher and School Ratios, 1993
Student/      Student/      Student/      Teacher/    Classroom/
Teacher      Classroom    School Ratio  School Ratio  School Ratio
Ratio         Ratio
Public             21            44            762           36            17
Private            17            30            256            15            8
Total              20            41            567           28            14
Source: MOE, Statistics Department.
Table 18: Secondary Education Failure and Drop Out Rates, 1993
______________   _________   Dropout         _                      Failure
Province      Total       Public       Privatc       Total        Public      Private
San Bias          7.2        7.2          n.a.         12.5    .     12.5          n.a.
Darien           11.6       11.6           n.a.        10.8          10.8          n.a.
Bocas del
Toro              4.6        4.6           4.5          8.9           9.5          5.2
Veraguas          4.5        4.6           3.3          7.8           8.0          3.0
Chiriqui         5.9         6.4          0.6           6.4          6.6           4.3
Cocle            2.6         2.7          0.3           7.1          7.1           5.6
Herrera          7.2         7.3          n.a.         12.8          12.9          5.2
Colon            n.a.        n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.          n.a.
Los Santos       6.4         6.4          n.a.          6.5          6.5           n.a.
Panama            5.3        5.7          4.2          12.4          14.4          6.5
Total             5.5        5.8           n.a.        10.5          11.4          6.1
n.a. Not Available.
Note: Provinces are listed in order of poverty with the poorest province listed first.
Source: MOE, Statistics Department.
Table 19: Secondary Education, Academic and Profess-Technical Students (percent)
1989            1990            1991             1992            1993
Academic             42.0             42.6            43.1             43.7            42.9
Professional-        58.0             57.4            56.9             56.3            57.1
Tcchnical
Total                100.0            100.0           100.0            100.0           100.0
Source: MOE, 1993b.
Table 20: Secondary Education, Gross and Net Enrollment in Selected Countries
Gross Enrollment                  Net Enrollment
Country                 1985             1991            1985             1991
Panama                            59              64'               47              52'
Chile                             67               72              n.a.             55
Costa Rica                        40               67               34              43
Venezuela                         24               34               16               19
Latin America                     65               68               51              54
Developed Countries               90               91               87              86
a 1992.
n.a.: Not available
Source: UNESCO, 1993; Panama: Office of Statistics and Census.



41                                                     ANNEX 1
Education Statistics
Table 21: Efficiency of the Public Primary Education System: Performance of a Hypothetical Cohort of
1000 Students Using Constant Rates of Promotion, Repetition and Drop out
NUMBER OP GRADES IN CYCLE: 6                                         SCHOOL YEAL 1992
Gr,d-I  G.d eS  Gr% 3de   2 Gmde 4  GrdeS  Grade 6    TOTAL
ENROLLM{ENT            67,2S0    56,406   52.72   53.736   49.S22   44.0S9        324205
REPEATERS              12,768     9,249    6.679    4.442    2.797       889        36.24
DROPOUTS                2,190     1.065      Sh0      5a5       490      477         5.657
PROMOTED               52.322    46.092   45.313   46.709   46.535   42.723        281.694
REPETMON RATE              19       16.4     12.6      9.3       5.6        2          11.4
DROPOUT RATE              3.3        1.9      1.7       1.1        1      1.1           a.3
PROMOTION RATE           77.8       81.7     65.7     90.6      93.4     96.9          86.9
'.'i.'.,,,-"'.,.--:......... '''','X'    ' .......  :. '          i- .
1992             1000         0         0        0         0        0             0         1       1.000
1993              290       776         0        0         0        0             0         2'       968
1994               36       276       636        0         0        0             0         3        948
1995                7        73       305      545         0        0             0         4        930
1996                1        17        98      306      494         0             0         5        916
1997                0         4        26      109      305       461           447         6        905        2.682
1998                0          1        6       31       116      294           235         7        448         1.995
1999                0         0         2        6        34      114           110         6        15S          660
2000                0          0        0        3         9       34            33         9         46          297
2001                0          0        0        0         4        9             9        10          13          91
2002                0          0        0        0         0        4             4        1 1         4           44
2003                0          0        0        0         0        0             0        12
2004                0          0        0                                                  13
2005                0          0        0        0         0        0             0        14
TOTALs         .124         118.1                         *Q        lE    . gig                       5354        5.989
TIME AVERAGE - CUMULATIVE YEARS I GRADUATES                                            6.74 yea  per graduuc
COST AVERAGE - STUDENT YEARS / GRADUATES                                               7.14 stdent yeam per gradatl
TUME EFFICIENCY - GRADUATES 'NO. OF GRADES I CUM YEARS                                 0.69 output / ycrn awed
COST EPFICIENCY - GRADUATES * NO. OF GRADES I STUDENT YEARS                            0.34 output I pIsbs finanoed
STUDENT YEARS - TOTAL STUDENTS ENROLLED IN EACH YEAR
CUMULATIVE YEARS - GRADUATES IN YEAR ' NUMMER OF YEARS TO GRADUATE



42                                        ANNEX I
Education Statistics
Table 22: Primary School Student Failure, Repetition and Drop out in Public and Private Schools
.-. ,:- s 1-GCade 1:               . ade 2    Grde 4 . VG ade 4  i:rde 5   Gade :6   Ttial ::
Public                19       16.4      12.6       8.3       5.6         2       11.4
Private              0.4        0.6       0.4       0.3       0.5       0.2        0.4
Dropout
Public               3.3        1.9       1.7       1.1         1        1.1       1.7
Private             -0.8         1        0.2       1.4      -0.8       0.3        0.2
Failure
Public              18.5       14.4      10.3       7.7       5.9        1.5      10.4
Private               1.2        1        0.6       0.5       0.4       0.2
Source: MOB, Statistics Department.
Table 23: Primary School Students Failure, Repetition
and Drop out in Rural and Urban Areas 1993
FtRepiers                                   Grade: 4   GradeS   Grader   .Total:
Rural               22.5       19.1      15.4       9.8       6.3       2.5        14
Urban               11.8       11.2       8.2       6.8       4.8        1.4       7.9
Dropout
Rural                3.6         2        1.9       1.6       1.6        1.6       2.2
Urban                2.6        1.6       1.3       0.4       0.2       0.4        1.1
Failure
Rural               22.2       17.3      13.6         9       6.6        1.7      13.8
Urban               11.1       8.8        6.2       5.8       4.9       1.1        6.6
Source: Statistics Department.



43                                                                             ANNEX 1
Education Statistics
Table 24: Efficiency of the Basic Education System grades 1-9: Performance of a Hypothetical
Cohort of 1,000 Students, Using Constant Rates of Promotion, Repetition and Drop Out
NUMBER OF GRADES IN CYCLE:                     9                                   93.02     3.877       SCHOOL YEARs1992
...... .-.      GRADE  GRADE  GRADE... GRADE  GRADE  GRADE  CGRADR   GRADE ..GRADE."
.--: .--  ..:::.::---  .. --- 2  : :3 :::: -4   .    -- S    6       - . 7.                        T TAL
ENROLLMENT            67,230    56,406    52,872    53,736    49,822    44,089    41,013    33,682   27,605       426,505
REPEATERS             12,768     9,249     6,679     4,442     2,797       889     4,639     3,660     2,962       48,05
DROPOUTS               2,190     1,065       880       585       490       477     3,554     2,198     1,286       12,725
PROMOTED              52,322    46,092    45,313    48,709    46,535    42,723    32,820    27,824   23,357       365,695
REPETITION RATE            19      16.4      12.6       9.3       5.6        2       11.3      10.9      10.7           0
DROPOUTRATE               3.3       1.9       1.7       1.1         I       1.1       8.7       6.5       4.7           0
PROMOnON RATE            77.8      81.7      85.7      90.6      93.4      96.9       S0      82.6       84.6           0
-...GR' G                            GRADE  GRADE  .GRADE  G:              -GRADE  GJADE: GRADU- EB TO    W                                             M..: :
SCHOOLYEARS          31..       2         3        A4         5                   1         a         -9       AlrES       GR13AD        EX       CU    E
1992             1000         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0          1        1,000
1993              190       778         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0          2          968
1994               36       276       636         0         0         0         0         0         0            0          3          948
1995                7        73       305       545         0         0         0         0         0            0          4         930
1996                1        17        98       306       494         0         0         0         0            0          5         916            -
1997                0         4        26       109       305       461         0         0         0            0          6         905            -
1998                0         1         6        31       116      294       447          0         0            0          7         895            -
1999                0         0         2         8        34       114      336        358         0            0          a          852            -
2000                0         0         0         3         9        34       148       308       296          250          9          798          2,250
2001                0         0         0         0         4         9        50       152       286          242         10          501          2,420
2002                0         0         0         0         0         4        15        57       157          133         11          233          1,463
2003                0         0         0         0         0         0         6        18        64           54         12           S8           648
2004                0         0         0         0         0         0         1         7        22           19         13           30           247
2005                0         0         0         0         0         0         0         2         8            7         14           10            98
TOTALS            1,234     1,149     1,073     1,002      962       916      1,003      902  -     33          705   .. --            9,074-.        7.126
TIME AVERAGE = CUMULATIVE YEARS /GRADUATES                                                                           10.11 yean per grmduatn
COST AVERAGE = STUDENT YEARS I GRADUATES                                                                             12.87 student yeam per graduate
TIME EFFICIENCY = GRADUATES * NO. OF GRADES / CUM YEARS                                                               0.89 output / yean used
COST EFFICIENCY = GRADUATES * NO. OF GRADES / STUDENT YEARS                                                            0.7 output / places financed
STUDENT YEARS = TOTAL STUDENTS ENROLLED IN EACH YEAR
CUMULATVE YEARS = GRADUATES IN YEAR * NUMBER OF YEARS TO GRADUATE



44                                                                 ANNEX 1
Education Statistics
Table 25: Multigrade Schools: Teachers and Students, 1992
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....:-Ebi e(l)f;;-Eg ;Siride;:'-.-i- ~i:%Mrd :;E-o  fg $M utnWi-t-%fi--L It
Total               2590          2050             79.1       13114          3,734              28.5
Urban                232             9              3.9        5134             13               0.3    145,338            345             0.2
San Bla               39            23               59         226            43                 19       5,534         1,052             19
Urban                   -            -                -           -              -                 -           -             -               -
Rural                 39            23               59         226            43                 19       5,534         1,052             19
DarEn                 149          137             91.9         432           231               53.5       9,840         4,758           48.3
Urban                   I            -                -          14              -                 -        345              -               -
Ruml                  148          137             91.9         418           231               53.5       9,495         4,758           48.3
Bocas del Toro        180          164             91.1         760           286               37.6      19,062         6,369           33.4
Urban                  7             -                -         155              -                 -       4,316             -               -
Rural                173           164             91.1         605           286               37.6      14,746         6,369           33.4
Veraguas             441           402             91.1        1,707          799               46.8      36,699        15,638           42.6
Urban                  9             -                -         260              -                 -       6,855             -               -
Rural                432           402             91.1        1,447          799               55.2      29,844        15,638            52.3
Chiriquf             500           374             74.8       2,335           674               28.9      56,867        15,209           26.7
Urban                 36             -                -         599              -                 -      16,066             -              -
Rund                 464           374             74.8        1,736          674               38.8      40,801        15,209           26.7
Code                 299           241             80.6        1,209          461               38.1      29,390        10,440           35.5
Urban                 14             3             21.4         258             4                1.5       7,144            95             1.3
Rural                285           238             83.5         951           457                 48      22,246        10,345           46.5
Herrera              173           155             89.6         596           303               50.8      13,016         5,555           42.7
Urban                 10             -                -         209              -                 -       5,395             -               -
Rurul                 163          155             89.6         387           303               50.8       7,621         5,555            72.9
Colon                 166          123               74         952           220               23.1      26,519         4,913            18.5
Urban                 14             1              7.1         417              1               0.2      13,176            41             0.3
Rural                 152          122             80.3         535           219               40.9      13,343         4,872            36.5
Las Santos            168          150             89.3         478           236               49.4       8,764         3,629            41.4
Urban                  5             -                -         110              -                 -       2,678             -               -
Rural                 163          150               92         368           236               64.1       6,086         3,629            41.4
Panama Prov.         475           281             59.1       4,419           481               10.9    121,494         10,180             8.4
Urban                 136            5              3.7       3,112              8               0.2      89,363           209             0.2
Rural                339           276             81.4        1,307          473               36.2      32,131         9,971             31
(1) Provinces ordered by poverty level.  .Source: MOE, Statistics Dcpartment
(2) 1992                               Check with Panama why the total of 4102 differ from other with total of 3750 ahown in other table.
(3) 1993                              (5) Total enrollment is only 327,185 for 1993 while we am working with a total enrollment of 356,247 for 1992



45                                      ANNEX 2
Sector Financing
SECTOR FINANCING
A. Public Expenditure in Education
I.     The Government has given a high priority to education sector funding.  As a result,
Panama ranks high, compared to other developing and Latin American countries, in terms of
percentage of GDP and total public sector resources allocated to education. However, higher
education receives about one third of these resources, while pre-primary education is given a
disproportionately low share. The high share given to university education and the minuscule fee
(approximately US$ 50) charged to university students result in an across-the-board subsidy to
many students whose families could afford to contribute to the cost of their studies. The structure
of subsector resource allocation favors higher income groups at the expense of lower income
groups, who would benefit from additional expenditures for pre-primary and primary education.
At the same time, pre-primary and primary education, which serve 54 percent of this population
and include a large percentage of poor students, receive only 40.9 percent of total resources.
Only 1.7 percent of total public expenditure for education is allocated to pre-primary education, a
figure far below international levels.
Table 1: Current Education Expenditure Levels in Selected Countries (percent)
Panama   Costa Rica  Venezuela   Mexico    Chilc    France    Spain
Preschool       1.7         3.6        3.3       6.1      6.7      9.5         6.4
Primary        39.2        34.5       20.2      28.6    49.4       16.8       22.2
Secondary      26.7        21.6        4.5      26.6    14.9      40.4        46.8
Higher         32.4        36.1       40.7      14.7    20.6       14.1       16.0
Others                      1.5        2.8                2.0      11.5        8.2
Undistributed  _  _2.7                28.5      23.9      6.4      7.7         0.4
Total,        100.0       100.0      100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0        100.0
Years: Panama, 1993; Mexico, Chile, France, Spain 1992; Costa Rica, 1991; Vcnezuela, 1990.
Sources: Panama: MOE and mission estimates; other countries: UNESCO, 1993.
A It includes Preschool Expenditwe
Totals may not add up due to rounding
Levels of expenditure
2.     Public expenditure in education, as measured by several indicators, is high in comparison
to other Latin American and developing countries, and even comparable to developed countries
by some indicators. It is 5.1 percent of GNP, the highest percentage in Latin America, and almost
as high as the 5.3 percent average for such expenditures in developed countries.
Trends in expenditures
3.     The level of public expenditure in education remained relatively constant in the period
between 1983 and 1991; expenditures as a percentage of GDP and total public sector expenditure
remained virtually unchanged. However, there was an abrupt change in public expenditure in
education in 1992-1993, when the aggregate level of expenditure increased 28.4 percent and
expenditure per capita increased 23.7 percent over the 1990-1991 levels (Table 2). Although
there were increases in public expenditure in education as percentages of GDP and total public
sector expenditure in the same period, these increases were a more modest 8 percent and 11



46                                   ANNEX 2
Sector Financing
percent, respectively. These figures reflect an increase in economic activity in 1992-1993 and the
Government strategy to continue to give a high priority to the education sector.
Table 2: Public Education Expenditure Trends (annual averages in US$)
1983-1987      1990-1991       1992-1993
Total (USS million)                 251.9           265.9          341.4
As % of GDP                           5.2             5.1            5.5
As % of Public Expenditures           15.2           15.0           16.4
Expenditures per Capita             116.3           109.8          135.8
Source: Comptroller General of the Republic.
Public Education Financing
Sources
4.    The Government's general revenues financed 93.3 percent of recurrent public education
expenditures during 1991-94. The remaining 6.7 percent was financed from an earmarked tax of
2.75 percent on salaries and the income of self-employed persons. General Government revenues
financed 62.6 percent of investment expenditures, while external sources financed 37.4 percent.
External financing is derived principally from IDB and some small grants from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID). IDB has assisted secondary schools in several
operations over the past twenty-five years that have financed technical assistance, scholarships,
and the construction, rehabilitation, expansion, and equipment of secondary schools. It has also
financed the Social Emergency Fund (Fondo de Emergencia Social, FES) which is used to
rehabilitate and renovate primary school buildings.
5.    Parental fees and employer contributions are additional sources of funds for pre-primary
school programs and higher education, but there are no fees for primary and secondary students.
Parents of students attending the.public Jardines de Infancia may be required to pay a fee of up
to US$ 10 per month. There are neither guidelines on the fees parents are required to pay nor
record-keeping requirements for collections. The principal has authority over the use of funds.
The level of fee collection and the importance of fees in the operation of schools are both difficult
to evaluate, due to the dearth of records. The Jardines de Infancia have also benefited from
materials provided by the provinces and families. The informal Family and Community Center for
Initial Education (Centro Familiar y Comunitario de Educacion Inicial, CEFACEI) program is
financed by a monthly parental fee of US$ 2-10 and a small annual grant from the Organization of
American States (OAS). The fees paid by parents cover about 75 percent of the cost of salaries
required to operate the centers. As in the case of the Jardines de Infancia, there are insufficient
guidelines, records, and information about the relative importance of fee payments as a source of
financing for the CEFACEI.  The Centers of Infant and Family Orientation (Centros de
Orientaci6n Infantil y Familiar, COIF) are located in workplaces and largely supported by
employers.



47                                  ANNEX 2
Sector Financing
6.    Students enrolled in Panama's two public universities are charged an annual fee of about
US$ 50, which is unnecessarily low. Fee revenues total US$ 2.8 million and cover approximately
4.1 percent of total university expenditures.
Allocation
7.    The relative shares of public expenditure allocated for the three principal levels of
education -- basic (including pre-primary and primary), secondary, and higher education --
remained almost constant between 1983 and 1991. However, in 1991-92 there was a significant
4.9 percent decline from the preceding two years in the allocation to basic education, and a 6.1
percent increase in the allocation to higher education. Although the percentage decline in the
allocation of public resources to basic education and the increase in the allocation of such
resources to higher education are not great, they are significant in that they exacerbate an already
inequitable distribution of resources.   Higher education receives almost one third of public
education resources, to serve the 10 percent of students attending publicly-financed schools at
that level.
Table 3: Public Education Expenditure Trends by Level (annual average percentages)
l _________________________ _  1 1983-87       1990-91        1992-93
Pre-primary and Primary          45.1           45.8              40.9
Secondary                        29.3           27.9              26.7
Higher                           25.6           26.3              32.4
Total                           100.0           100.0            100.0
Source: Contralorla General de la Repziblica
8.    Students at the University of Panama and the Technological University pay an annual fee
of about US$ 50. Although there is no family income data for students at the University of
Panama, such data for the 11,000 students at the Technological University, show that about one
third of students come from families with annual incomes over US$ 7,032, the top quintile of
family income in Panama.  A similar family income profile could be assumed for students
attending the University of Panama. It is clear that a major state subsidy is going to students from
middle- and upper-income families who could afford to pay for all or a substantial part of the cost
of a university education. In contrast, the fees at private sector universities for upper-income
students are about US$ 2,000, for middle-income students, about US$ 800, and for lower-income
students, about US$ 500.
Private Education Financing
9.    Private school expenditures were estimated to be US$ 77.4 million for 1992, equivalent to
about 24.4 percent of total sector expenditures. Private school expenditures were particularly
important at the secondary level, where they accounted for 37.9 percent of total expenditures, and
least important at the higher level, where they accounted for only 8.7 percent of total
expenditures.  Private school expenditure on a per capita basis far exceeded per capita
expenditure by the public sector on all levels, except in higher education, where public sector
expenditure exceeded that of the private sector by about 20 percent.



48                                  ANNEX 2
Sector Financing
10.   The combined education expenditure of the private and public sector was about 7.4
percent of GDP in 1993. This calculation was based on direct costs and did not include the
indirect costs incurred by families for school supplies, textbooks, uniforms, and transportation.
The calculation also excludes the cost of studying abroad, which is fairly common at the higher
education level.
Table 4: Public and Private School Expenditures by Level, 1992
| Prc-primary    Primary    Secondary    Higher       Total
Private'         0.9         28.9          40.5        7.1         77.4
Public           4.5         94.9          66.4       74.4        240.2
Per Capita"
Private        900         1000          1200        1200         982
Public          192         292           397        1439         421
' US$ millions.
b uss.
Source: Comptroller General of the Republic and mission estimates.
D. Teacher Salaries and Working Conditions
11.   There are two main components of the educational system in Panama for school teachers
(initial, primary and secondary levels): salaries and work place.  The salary structure is
predetermined by the kind of formation the teacher has and by years of work experience, while
work location is determined by a competence system based on improvement, experience and
professional formation.
12.   The salary structure in July 1994 consists of an initial salary, which depends on the
professional formation of the teacher. This salary is in place for an initial two- year trial period.
Once this stage is completed, the salary is readjusted 0-10%, depending on professional
formation. Thereafter, the salary is subject to bi-annual readjustments, which add a constant
amount to the base salary after every two years on the job. In the case of primary teachers (51%
of the total in 1992), their salaries were incremented by US$ 13 every two years, while the
salaries of secondary teachers with a specialization were increased by US$ 18 every two years.



49                                       ANNEX 2
Sector Financing
Table 5: Teacher salary structure (US$/Month)
Working        Primary       Primary 1      Primary 2       Secondary    Spccial Secon
Years         Teacher        Teacher        Teacher        Teacher        Teacher
0             338            415            435            445            485
2             361            425            465            445            540
4             374            440            480            460            558
6             387            455            495            475            576
8             400            470            510            490            594
10            413            485            525            505            612
12            426            500            540            520            630
14            439            515            555            535            648
16            452            530            570            550            666
18            465            545            585            565            684
20            478            560            600             580            702
22            491            575            615             595            720
24            504            590            630             610            738
26            517            605            645             625            756
28            530            620            660             640            774
Source: Ministry of Education
Notes:
I       Teacher with title of first instruction
2       Teacher with title of second instruction
13.    Based on an international comparison, teacher salaries in Panama are high. If we consider
that in 1992, GDP per capita in Panama increased to US$ 2,367, then a primary school teacher
salary fluctuated--according to years of work experience-- between 1.85 and 2.91 times GDP per
capita. This number is relatively high when compared with other countries in the region (see Table
6), where the average teaching salary is 2.5 times GDP per capita. Only three countries are above
Panama among the 12 cases considered.
Table 6: Teacher salaries in selected Latin American countries
Country           Salary/GDP percapita
Mexico                    0.9
Uruguay                    1.0
Peru                     1.3
Venezuela                  1.5
Guatemala                   1.7
Argentina                  1.8
Ecuador                   2.0
Colombia                   2.2
Panama                    2.5
Costa Rica                 3.2
Brazil                   3.2
Jamaica                   3.4
Source: Lockheed and Verspoor: "Improving Primary Education in
Developing Countries" World Bank, 1991



50                                   ANNEX 2
Sector Financing
14.   Teacher salaries are high within Panama as well. According to a PRELAC report, the
average income of the eighth percentile of households was US$ 379 in 1989. Incorporating the
14% increase in per capita income between 1989 and 1992, a projection of US$ 432 is obtained
for 1992, when the average liquid salary of teachers was US$ 420. Teachers are clearly among
the higher wage earners in Panamanian society.
15.   Public school teachers in Panama are fortunate not only in salaries but also in working
hours (5 and 1/2 hours 5 days a week for a period of 36 weeks in a school year), social security
(complete package), retirement age (approximately 50), and job security and stability. But these
benefits are not linked to performance criteria, except for a dubious system of points for location
transfers (traslados). In other words, teachers receive the benefits mentioned independent of the
level of dedication and effort they put into their work. This shows that the education incentive
system rewards teachers regardless of their productivity. One anticipated result of this incentive
scheme is high fiscal funding, and a glut of teachers with low educational achievement.
16.   The policy implications point towards a reform in the incentive system, in order to link the
benefits of teaching to educational achievement. Teachers in Panama should also be subject to the
new norms directed towards decreasing the deficit of the social security system and increasing the
retirement age.
Salary System: Incentive for Teacher Union Pressure and Explosion of Costs
17.   The basic change in the salary system  agreed to in 1993 refers to the concept of
"oversalary" (sobresueldo) or salary increase for teachers, based on years of work experience.
With the change, the readjustment is made through a higher initial salary level and incremental
increases over time (see Table 7).
18.   There are two main fiscal implications of this new salary scheme. First is the impact of
paying each teacher according to years of work experience. An estimate shows a 5-10% increase
in additional resources needed by the Government for the first year. Second, a skewed effect
because as teachers get older the salaries paid will increase in relation to the present. In addition,
the new salary system creates a heavy fiscal burden for the social security system, because it is
based on the amount of the last salary received, which will be increased from 25% to 37%
(provisional).



51                                       ANNEX 2
Sector Financing
Table 7: New teacher salary structure
(percentage above base salary)
Working   Primary    Primary 1  Primary 2   Secondary 3          Special
Secondary.
Years     Teacher    Teacher    Teacher         Teacher        Teacher
0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0            0.0
2.0        0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0            0.0
4.0        0.8          0.9         0.8           0.9            0.2
6.0        1.8          2.2         2.0          2.9             1.4
8.0        3.0         3.6          3.3          5.1            2.7
10.        4.4         5.2         4.8           7.3            4.1
12.        5.9         6.8         6.3           9.8            5.7
14.        7.5         8.7         8.1           12.5           7.6
16.        9.5         10.9        10.2          15.5           9.6
18.       12.1         13.4        12.5          18.6           11.8
20.        14.5        15.7        14.7          21.6           14.0
22.        17.5        18.6        17.4          25.2           16.7
24.       20.5         21.5        20.2          28.7           19.2
26.       24.0         25.1        23.6          32.8           22.4
28.       27.4         28.7         27.          36.7           25.3
Source: Ministry of Education
Notes:
I Teacher with title of first instrunction
2 Teacher with title of second instrucion
3 Beginner
19.    The 1993 teacher strike and the conditions for its termination illustrate a perverse
incentive for the teacher salary and benefit system in Panama. Teachers now have an incentive to
exert pressure on the Government as a group, since their negotiating power depends on the
number of teachers participating in the strike. In addition, the fact that the benefits obtained favor
all of them, ensures a massive, synergistic movement. The overall results for Panamanian society
are negative. Fiscal concessions have a high cost, because they favor the teaching profession
without guaranteeing an improvement in education. Again this is due to the lack of connection
between benefits and achievements in the system.
20.    As mentioned above, the policy implication is to link benefits to productivity and
educational achievement. Salary adjustments should be made selectively, rewarding teacher merit
and experience.



52                                   ANNEX 2
Sector Financing
Inefficiency of the Teacher Promotion/Transfer System
21.   An important component in the working conditions of teachers is location: rural or urban;
small or large city; etc. Different from other conditions, location is determined by competition,
theoretically based on the achievement and quality of the teacher. Vacancies are publicized by the
Ministry of Education for two reasons: (i) new position due to increase in enrollment; (ii)
replacement due to retirement, firing or death. The creation of new openings, though, is really due
to pressure from new entrants and incentives given to principals and supervisors.
22.   The transfer system is complex and competition-based.  It requires each candidate to
choose a maximum of five possible destinations, and to present various elements that contribute
to the score.  There are three elements: professional formation, experience, perfection and
contributions made to education.  These variables in turn make up a complex system  of
approximately 60 items for the score.
23.   The process of relocation and transfer is massive. It is estimated that each year around
9,000 teachers compete to be transferred and about 12,000 new candidates try to enter the
system. This implies that during each year, one third of all teachers take part in this competition
and an equivalent of 43% of teachers, already hired, try to enter the system.
24.   There are at least three sources of inefficiency in the transfer and appointment system.
First, the quality of education inevitably suffers if more than one third of teachers spend a lot of
time and energy each year competing to be transferred to another location. This process forces
teachers to attend workshops (to increase their scores), to travel and visit different locations, to
spend time and other resources trying to influence the Ministry to select them and to find out
about applications, etc.
25.   A second source of inefficiency derives from the significant administrative cost of the
transfer/appointment system  for the Ministry.  Each year it must process around 21,000
applications, select the candidates and make sure that the vacancies are filled. Workshops and
courses which increase the scores for transfers and appointments represent a third source of
inefficiency. Moreover, the institutions which offer this training are not subject to quality control.
26.   The policy implications are two; first, appointments must confront a structural problem of
oversupply of candidates in the system. This in turn is related to the benefits and privileges
teachers receive vis-a-vis the lack of responsibility in their work. Second, the transfer system
generates inefficiencies and some inequity, both of which need to be addressed.



53                                                             ANNEX 3
Policy Matrix
SECTOR POLICIES AND PROPOSED PROJECT ACTIVITIES
ISSUES                                  POLICIES AND ACTIONS                                         THE PROJECT
Quality: need to improve equitable access to
quality educational services.
Need to improve pre-primary curriculum       Curriculum adjustments: more active and child-      Supports a new curriculum, in the form of manuals for educators
centered. Proposal of learning situations to be    and parents, and radio programs for teachers and parents.
developed by parents and educators.
Low quality of multigrade primary education  Establishement of an adequate methodology for       Provides appropriate teacher-training and educational materials
multigrade teachers and students.                  to all multigrade teachers and classrooms.
Lack of textbooks and educational materials.  Set a policy for the provision of textbooks and    Provides textbooks for 41 percent of the students enrolled in
educational materials for the poor.                basic education (1-9 grades)
Need to improve equitable access to the nine  Reorient the current scholarship program to target the    Provides scholarships that target basic education students from
years of education.                          poor, in order to improve the promotion rate from sixth  the poorest correginmientos
to seventh grade
Lack of a standardized evaluation system.    Institutionalization of the evaluation of student   Establishes a standardized evaluation system.
achievement.
Coverage: need to provide equitable access to
pre-primary.
Low pre-primary school coverage              Develop a cost-effective strategy for the expansion of  Supports the expansion of the non-formal CEFACEI model.
pre-primary school coverage.                       The government subsidizes education services for the poor by
paying the community educator on a per-student basis.
Institutional Strengthening:
Weak capacity for planning and formulating   Strengthen planning and policy-making capacity within  Finances studies to promote the formulation of policy reforms
policy,                                      and outside the Ministry                            and to encourage the specialization of people in education policy
issues.
Finances the implementation of an MIS.
P>
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -. 1~~~~~~~~~~3 . 



54                                     ANNEX 4
Targeting
TARGETING
Basic Criteria
1.  The main objectives of the Basic Education Project are to improve the quality, efficiency and equity of
Panama's basic education system. There is a strong relationship between access to educational materials and
the socio-economic conditions of schoolchildren's famiLies. Children of poorer farnilies cannot buy the
books, notebooks and other learning materials not provided by schools and therefore they learn less, repeat
grades and eventually drop out.
2.  In order to compensate for poorer children's disadvantages in terms of access to better quality
education, the project will focus on townships with the highest levels of poverty according to representative
indicators: poor housing conditions, less access to educational benefits, and nutritional deficiencies. The
percentage of indigenous population, as well as the prevalence of poverty in overcrowded urban areas, has
been taken into consideration for targeting.
Methodology for Project Targeting
3.  Townships were chosen as targeting units so that project interventions can have the maximum effect in
poor areas. The country's 510 townships (corregimientos) are distributed among 67 districts, which in tum
correspond to 9 provinces. Township populations vary from 88 inhabitants in Playa Chiquita (Santa Isabel
District) to a maximum of 199,400 in Belisario Porras (San Miguelito District). 69% of townships (353)
have less than 2,500 inhabitants, while the 34 townships with over 15,000 inhabitants (7%) contain 51% of
the country's total population (1.2 million out of 2.3 million total inhabitants).
Selection of Indicators
4.  Three types of variables per township were used as poverty indicators: (a) housing quality, according to
the 1990 Population and Housing Census; (b) access to education, according to 1993 statistics by the
Ministry of Education; and (c) nutritional status, according to the 1994 Census of Students' Height by the
Ministries of Education and Health.
5.  Housing quality is reflected by the percentage of homes without drinking water and sanitation services
and with dirt floors. Access to education is gauged by the percentage of children between the ages of 6 and
15 who do not attend school and the percentage of students who repeat grades or drop out of school.
Nutritional status is indicated by the percentage of the population between the ages of 6 and 15 whose height
is shorter than normal for their age.
6.  The total population of school-age children (between the ages of 6. and 15) is used as an additional
variable to allow the inclusion of townships with high concentrations of disadvantaged urban inhabitants who
would not be detected only by qualitative variables. The percentage of the indigenous population is also used
as a compensating variable to ensure that priority is assigned to small townships with a predominantly
indigenous population.



55                                      ANNEX 4
Targeting
Consistency of Variables
7.  Because the variables selected as being representative of poverty conditions are so diverse, they cannot
be directly combined in a composite index. Some represent percentages of the number of homes, others are
percentages of the school-age population, of school enrollment of total population, and yet another represents
absolute population numbers. In order to compute the composite index of poverty, the values of all variables
have been converted to a uniform value scale of 0 to 100. The numbers used in the targeting table are the
converted values, not the original percentages or numbers, which are found in separate tables.
8.  The highest original value of each variable (which indicates more unfavorable conditions) is represented
by 0 on the converted scale, and the lowest original value of the same variable is represented by 100,
regardless of the variable's original value range. For example, for the school-age population variable, the
highest value of 28,889 becomes 0, and the lowest value (16) becomes 100. For the variable of school-age
children not attending school, the highest value of 86.42% becomes an index of 0, and the lowest value of
2.3 5% becomes an index of 100. Intermediate values are calculated using the following formula:
VN = (VMAX - VA)/(VMAX - VMN) x 100
in which:
VA        is the original value, to be converted to the new scale;
VN        is the new value resulting in a scale of 0 to 100;
VMAX    is the highest original value of the variable;
V\MIN    is the lowest original value of the variable.
9.  The formula inverts the order of the values to try to arrange the resulting index in ascending order, from
lowest to highest. This is an arbitrary decision since the same result would be obtained by converting the
values in the same original order and arranging the values of the resulting index from highest to lowest.1 The
resulting values, converted to a scale of 0 to 100, represent indicators of the relative position of each
variable's original values within their respective range, and may be combined as such in a composite index
using arithmetical averages, which could not be done with the original values.
Computation of the Composite Index of Poverty
10. The poverty index is the weighted average of values converted to a scale of 0 to 100 of all variables
used. Equal weight has been assigned to the set of population variables (school-age and indigenous, which
are of a quantitative nature) and to the set of qualitative indicators of poverty conditions (housing, education
and nutrition) in order to ensure that the project's benefits reach the greatest possible number of persons in the
poorest townships in rural and disadvantaged urban areas.
11. The weights assigned to each variable appear in the upper part of each page of the table. The variable
for homes with dirt floors has a weight of 20 because it is considered the most characteristic of extreme rural
and urban poverty. The other housing and educational variables have a weight of 4 each, and the nutritional
variable has a weight of 10, to complete the combined weight of 50 for this set of variables. The school-age
The formula to convert the values of a variable in the same original order would be:
VN = (VA - VIN)/(VMAX - VMN) x 100.



56                                     ANNEX 4
Targeting
population variable has a weight of 40, and the indigenous population variable 10; these two variables add up
to 50 and have an essentially distributive function in calculating the index.
12. The result is shown in the attached table, with the 510 townships arranged according to the composite
index of poverty. The lowest index (45.95, top priority) corresponds to the Penia Blanca township with a
population of 1,986 in Chiriqui province, while the highest (98.90) corresponds to Otoque Occidente with a
population of 210 in Panama province.
13. The order of priority resulting from the poverty index allows us to target objectively and safely the
investments of a basic education project according to selected criteria in order to achieve the proposed
objectives of greater educational quality, efficiency and equity. Among the 32 poorest townships is the
country's most populous (Belisario Porras), a highly disadvantaged zone on the outsldrts of Panama City.
However, 50% of the school-aged basic education population lives in the first 238 townships on the list (47%
of the total number of townships), meaning that a large number of scarcely populated rural townships, as well
the most important disadvantaged urban population centers, hold top priority positions. These also include
all townships with a significant proportion of indigenous inhabitants.
14. The project will target 185 Corregimientos out of the 510, distributed over the 68 districts covering 41
percent of the school population from grades I to 9.



57                                                                            ANNEX 4
Targeting
PANAMA  BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT TARGETNOC
RANKING OF CORREGIWENTOS BY POVERTY INDEX
USING INDICATORS OF HOUSING CONDmONS. ACCESS AND QUALITY OF EDUCATION SERIOCES. NUTRITIONAL STATUS.
PROPORTION OF INDIGENOUS POPULATION AND POPULATION DtENSITY OF AGES S TO 15
ALL INDICATORS CONVERTED TO SCALES OF 0-100
RELATIVE      4         4           20           4            4            4              10           40        10         100
HOUSING INDICATORS                 EDUCATION NDICATOR9                NTRITION       TOTAL [            COMPOSITE          RANKINO
CORREGUENTO              DISTRICT    VWTHOUT   IATHOUT         WITH       % POP           16           S       IS POP AGE 4-15   POPUL   BNDIOE        INDEX                  CU         ENROLL
POTABLE  SAWTARY        DIRT       6-15 NOT     SCHOOL        SCHOOL   BELOW NORMAL   AGES           NO J                              aNROLL    GRADES
WATER   SERVICE    FLOOR    IN SCHOOL    FAILURE            DROPOUT         HeHT          S TO 1             PUL                       MENT         1-9
P.A. Ibnc                 Tol                  0.00        0.40        0.00        20.63        46.e9        44.40            10.30     9U01       0.89         4505          1        683         6W
IAu,ur4                   ChkIQLA G-ad.        0.00        1.02       11.99         0.0         73.11         20.42            0.00     9,.21      0.90         46.21         2        972         190
Pi.dra Rob                Chiqd Grnd.           1.27       2.12       10.66        14.07        90.25         123.2           1t.40     00.29      0.09         47.39         3       12W4         422
o.. d.o 0.1.              S- Lor,n.-            215        323         1.79        33.07        70.47        41.94            23.90     96.48      0.94         47|46         4       1676         582
Holo C.jo-ro              San Fil.              0.00       4.57        3.16        25.12        90.27          1.23           30.40     98.62      0.71         47.04         5       2126         250
Halo PJbn                 San FPl              18.04      11.11        0.57        24.10        62.64         24.18           18.20     98.45      0.48         47.00         9       2422         349
Sit9  Prado               TolO                  2.89       3.85        1.92        43.22        67.60         01.S9           10.20     96.04      1.41         47.95         7       2156         729
C.-oao-co                 Sn Lor.n.o            1.40       0.59        2.40        34.00        51.46        459.0            23.70     97.52      2.07         48.10        *        3U31         672
C.-o d. Pmor              Sn Lor,nao           0.40        0.91        1.21        35.46        57.6          34.02           22.60     98.30     16.90         40.65         9       4098         267
Crbn A.nb.                San Lor.n-o          0.34        6.51        1.96        14.04        70.77         52.80           37.90     96.23      1.03         49.33        10       42n          191
HNAo Chd                  R    do              10.24      14.01        1.23        20.21        52.02         26.e0           27.60     97.35     10.72         49.41        11       4650         61
H.do Jobo                 S-n Fiat              0.70      10.06        1.04        S737         67.06         13.29          U2.0       29.05      0.00         49.44        12       514S         1ff
Cowo Pu.r.o               To.                  4.69        3.74        1.40        44.75        70.19         51.37           26.40     97.73     50.4          49.50       13        5765         920
C-b.)o                    San POlo             0.69        1.70        3.16        34.00        33.94          9.010          04.90     961.23     0.04         46.63       '14       9535          60
MUa.c.                    To                   12.50      12.75        1.10        31.00        74.04        47.13            2.909     97.20      7.49         46.93        1s       6293         438
ChIohI.                   TdN                   3.97      13.74        3.43        57.10        60.99         56.06           25.70     95.40      8.39         50.07        16       7007        1214
S  o Dupl                 San F- 4.           15.22       17.S6        1.76        40.30        77.9         2 6.4            S1.00     9.34         1.44      10.4        17        T66S         S8
Ca-o llg.o.               R...doo             10.43       20.44        3.20        A69          79.3S        49.04            29.090 94.14         0.38         50.6        19        0763         a"
Qubrad. d. Loro           Sa Pnlo             10.40       31.43        0.05        40.42        77.74        49.45            26.30     99.20      0.92         50.00       19       6944          1i1
E.pInd. d. Choroh.        San Lor.o            3.26        9.06        S.26        33.51        78.04        60.52            40.90     33.50      4.50         52.37       20        9260         S16
Hwo Juo                   San F.                1.10      57.14        4.02        96.34        72.40        4.44             25.00     99.37      e.25         52.07       21        9409        11
L.-ro                     Roodo.              30.46       32.49        6.74        54.04        77.30        33.20            24.60     91.66      2.91         33.06       22        0727         206
Aingd                     SIn al..            90054       40.30       11.71        9We7         70.93         U.31            19.00      0.63      3.03         31.24       23       12361        2614
TYb.uc1                   S-n S6-              7S.S3       0.72       11.44        60.SS        6.44          71.04           24.40     91.66      0.60         S25.7        24      177S        W11
P0(10d. C.                Todb                29.07       21.00        2.07        62.80        60.10         750.6           25090  99.19         S.S6         53.47       25       14145         34
5017                      San Lor.-o           150.6       7.77        7.40        *7.41        73.20         57.51           42.00     90.01      2.44         53.2        26       14914         646
AXo Cabl-ro               To16                 15.20      32.33        6.0         74.21        74.04         64.26           30.30     67.73      0.71         54.50       27       1946S         951
Nagan6                    S-n 9l              32.65       69.30       14.73        51.02        75.96         73.50           34.10      U0.74     5.50         U.53         n       17703        2233
Car.o CaA.                Tob                  5.15       10.10       32.76        47.09        Ss.9         04.07            23.30     97.04     46.65         5.60        29       10131         450
Agu. d. Sl.u C4                                  0.75     21.30        1.31        52.03         u4.54        72.27           23.10     07.02     45.24         U4.65       30       107900         37
C5-o Ig.A1..              Toli                  7.36      11.04        3.29        90           72.25         73.38           29.20     90.14     323.4          59.36      31       19263         503
Pl-lo P1, Sn    -.o                          96.69        87.85       96.73        94.20        92.58         78.28            9.10      0.00     58.67         54.71       32       Sass0       19568
Halo C-o.on               San Polo              1.07      19.76        2.62        51.61        83.20         43.03           37.30     989.1     52.04         07.00        33      3613?         252
El Prado                  L.. Pr .            25.47       41.74        7.07        7L0S         73.29         70.0            27.00     95.12     49.39 59       8.S9       34       40705        1Ws3
G..,o,onl                 Chqi Cr-nd            0.52       2.62       51.11        41.39        59.20         54.94 2U.70               60.4S      1.21         s073       3s        40996         291
C-o do PMb.               C3az..               6.09       24.42        2.66        7519         73.69         70.49           25.40    98652      900.2         60.90       36       41905         909
PYoy                      Plnog-               0.00        0.06       55.50        38051         0.00        4S.00            47.10     90.73     10.73         6e.94       37       41941          SS
C-o 11.10                 Tolb                 11.04      29.19        8.11        87.99        74.18        67.06            52.70     97.02     5.2   *        1.01       38       42e95         732
C.o.o d. C-.              L.. Pr-..             9.37      23.42        3.12 3      6.1          04.06         74.56           37.10     07.41      4.37         61.52      S3        41225         530
Calo-bor                  1o1     dal Toro      0.00       4.76       5.00         34.72         3.05         73.91           37.70     97.33     13.35         93.21       40       43856         633
EJ 760                    L.. P.I0.           41.22       50.27       1o.01        70.91        77.80         9.54            36.30     97.96     93.03         63.52       A1       44446         590
ru-O                     rl-n-                0.0o0       1.75       40.92        6S.61        5s.46        34.56            41,0o      9.04      0.13        63.54        42       44386         140
Sa JO..                   C.obS-               17.52      12.07        4.00        40.20        533.4        66.44            65.20     99.30    100.00         65.21       43       44748         1so
Gaou 0 Gono6              So .s FP            52.16        5.45        Z.67        61.10        53.96         70.63           4.30      06.4s    100.00         65.40       44       45125         377
Lo. Vo.A.                 C.n..               27.70       42.17       11.52        74.02        67.60         75.41           40.30     60L02     65.06         65,s9       45       46s20         700
CmoO                      so56                27.n9       20.77        3.30        61.35        67.51         7z.96           s5.00    90.70      90.641 U.01               46       49063         26
CaIdon1.                  Son&                21.15       23.56        3.54        77.04        72.55        66.56            55.20     90.20     00.31         65.n        47 4U43u               343
El N d.no                 Ro                  47.53       54.94       25.03        04.73        70.00        33.60 3n.5                 66.28     58 .77       94.26        43       46533          S?
El Rko6n                  L". P.r .           16.56       45.43       13.59        30.40        70.33         69.95           33.00     07.92     9.6           641.40      469      47167         634
Tobob                     Boo.  do4 Toro        6.34       3.66       96.50        45.so        60.60         73.77           33.70     94.62      0.76         66.71       so       40404        1297
Q-abr-d. d.1 R6..o        L.. Mo              10.74       18.46        8.43        71.73        60.73.   n     4.34           53.6      67.87    100.00         44.92       s1       46974         SAO
El CuIy                   S.0 6               24.92       47.95        9.10        73.02        73e59        76.e4            30.60     99.46     68.1          67.00       52       4626          254
Ch-po                     La. Mb6              17.432     22.5        10.29        32.76        69.14         69.26           60.00     99.96    100.00         67.21       92       49546         329
Lo. HNIo.                 San rno- c          10.90       32.71        6.10        72.04        64.69         70.70           94.00     00.73     90.72         67.42       54       46751         203
Cab...,.                  C.3o.               26.66       46.48       22.27        72.66        73.15         75.27           45.30     02.18     996.0         67.99       ss       516U3        1632
Eltoro                    L"  .               21.72       29.34        9.14        46.31        62.34        65,44            o0.00    96.83    100.00         68.02        s        51037         254
5.0 Juan                  Sa  an l.*o        3S8.8 U      U.62        10.28        74.62        71.07         75.53           51.30     96.29    100.00         68.37       57       52971        104
Rod-o Vbab                sonO                35.37       20.62        5.54        58.49        71.16        74.50            75.00     97.65    100.00         U.57        Ss       5S94          42
R.m-n.                    Sa Panol.o          39.76       40.26       15.39        74.14        67.06         75.06           41.60     08.43    100.00         61.62       56       52716         224
0 Copi                    0L1                  12.61      27.93       17.24        61.37        60.55         7z.66           36.20     90.90    100.00         ".6n        so       54001         333
El Liano                  Chpo                38.09       43.15       U.10         36.20        05.01        04.48            73.10      0.03     60.22         66.20 W1 n4a054                   2003
Oor                       L. M...              10.13      29.70       13.10        63.22        70.10         70.410          50.30     60.94    100.00         60.54       62       546862        633
La. H    .                Hal                 30.47       34.569      1e.20       5s.s32        68.6          76.78           58.20     66.6    10.             60.16       63 e.4                 363
CNgI4dAdAnb.              pw-co4              27.31       03.21       17.25        96.60        01.16         76.83           52.30     32.00    100.00         69.41        U4      s8633        168
Chi Grnd.                 Cpi.                 23.92      71.37       15.92        65.46        61.31         7z3             53.70     95.      10.0           6.7                  5973         11
San M-I.                                                  33 41.31  10.17  13.53   76.04        771.9         80.05           53.60     06 .6    10.0           9.9         9        60420         601
onoI                      Cbbro.               9.75       25.62       10.28        70.01        74.04         66.26           73        9.52 1    0. w  0.00    70.01       6        403           115
ad Mlond.                 SonS.                13.9       13.04       2145         75.984       as."          SOA4            0S.0      9    '.3                70.11       6s        087s           0
RI. Cono                  Ch"4ga                7.38      10.52       34.96        63.0         63.46         74.59           74.00     07.76     79.04         70.15       s0       61400         525



58                                                                           ANNEX 4
Targetin
RELATrVE     4          4           20           4            4            4              10           40        10         100
WEIGHTS                                                                                                                                       I
HOUS  INC  OATORtS                 EOUCATMIONOiCATORS                 NUTItfiXOH     TOTAL              rO AtIlOSIT       iiAIN11,11
CORREGNUENTO             DiSTRiCT    WYiTiHOT  WITHOUT         WiTH          POP %o                           % _1 P; OP AGE i- 15    tJrL    ND-CE    NMDEX                  CIO"       EHIROLL
POTABLE  SANTARY        DIRT       6d15 NOT      SCHOOL       SCHOOL   BELOWiiORMAAL   AGES          NOUS                              ENROLL    GRADES
WATER    SERVICE    FLOOR    IN SCHOOL    FAILURE           DROPOUT         HEiGHT         1 TO 15         POPUL                      imEwT         1.0
L. C.. r                  Mno.4o              11.70       35.11       12.42        79.63 U        2.0 5       742               4S0     0 T71    10000          7010         70      :1467          07
El Cool.                  C..b,.               *14        51.42        5. 78       4L70          W0.04        75 44           72.10      W0 54    100 00        70 29       71       0110          143
S  E"-oIo                 LM".                30.51       41.02       10.29        79.09         77.00        77.10           55.40     17.62      n.u3         7047        72       02111         501
Cnq.in,uc                 ChiIqd Gk-d.         20.39       5.90       00.17        4.051         72.8         04.03            3400     0004       294          70.59        73      43120        1000
Juay                     S= n r^                  U       51LU ,44o  40.5  51  30.40  50.54      71S.         31.54            SS.50     n        45.31        7t0.7         74      43274         15i
L.on..                    Loc MM,..            50.11      42 .20      1. U           l           44.07        70.22           72.50 04.45    100.00             70.S5       70       050           240
Pum. L-.                  Boo... d.  Toro       7.41        .26       05.55        74.5          709.23       73.81             7.70    44.S7      17.37        71.10       ?9       63707         1U
El P.A...                 Ok                  42.48      5.29        17.24        70.44         7.53         5il.28           07.50    09.45    100.00         71.15        77      44051         3
CW  ......                L.. P    .           0.390      60d10       2270        79.03         70.71        73.04           54.40     94.35     02.1          71.23       70       65070        101
Rio hdio                  P.no.oP,6            17.04 U     90.        23.25        6034         02.20         77.40           5i.40     95.50    100.00         71.28       74       44104        1014
C..b,.. d. Oro 040J4 S5.                                  00.1        7.1          73.40  5       1.2U        7i623            79.30    00.14      9J.32        71.44       00       6*ue          162
Cobt.cr.                  ChMkqc G-rd.         20.7     L    15 3     02.01        5121          70 77        `U.U             40.90    01.82      23.90        71.47        1       U040         1774
LI-no   nd.               L.M...               29.21      33.17       27.43        60.07         UJ.90       7mL14            a.o00     9.44       U.7          71S2        S2      9U211          171
El Coo.o                  Ccoir               31.S1       74.30       10.27        7268         01.90         7Y.4            0d.20    9S0.4 U     9.0U         71.4 U3                216        1005
L..- iil -..              C.,o                 0.323   5     20       17A6         70.14         47.4 U    73.50               24.70    47.33     14.14         15.4    U U4         4474     2   524
S-,,, C,ut d. Chki,1.     Ch.po                13.44      20.25       27 00         U6.04        7E.34        *2.70            71W0     9.32      97.7S         71.72       Ss       70103         U41
P--oont             48.12       72.00       21. 77        97           70.07        77.40           01.70     24.32    100.00         71.78       se       71104        1001
El MTA. n L.. Pkm...                         305.0       GS."        1.39         70.05 g       4.27         73.24           S.        09h44     94.2          72.09       67       7149          302
Eli MMon                  Son                 37.5        47.00       22.0         70.71         77.10        7                3.90     07.5      4.911         72.3                 71Un7         491
10. C.,.o. 4. P4.         Lo. P.o.o           10.35       02.14        SJS         47.61        7W03          82.2            43.44     00.4     100.00         72I.0        U       73I19         22S
iAoni_.                   C.ICbr.              6224       42U6        27.90         U5.31        7.38         304             40.00     00       100.00         72.59        tO      72274          70
91.,.II.L U....                               55.60       60.2S       20.04         2 75        90.71        7?4.            S01.      07.91     00.07         72.4         1       7724          450
CaS c...                  Ch.pIg-             36.79       40.16       04.05        97.21         74           64.0            Si10      90.03    02.9           72.9 05      2       70S41        2657
_on,                       0-l                  3.53      74.24        S.04        9 9.41        84.7         71.17            02.i0    00.30    100.00         72.U        93       75571         1U0
G..br.d. d P1.d,.         To1l                 3.60       02U10       24.01        :1.39        82.30         07.76            00.00    94i0S    90.1U          72.74       04       70479         209
L.. Hu.....               Rb.. J.."t.          15.15      *3.20       12.4         07.39        74.43        7n.u4            79,90       09.09    100.00       72.04        Is      70237         300
Z.Poli1o                  L- P.M.              28.43      42.01        19.20       7IL0          01.90        4.90             9.00     00.56       7 .76       72.01        d4      79447         40
P0.1  Robolo              ChidquO G,.nd       37.53       322.2       0 .00        4217          73.44        57.4            49.00     00.44     2155          72.01       07       77387         740
C-no L.ro                 O.u                   3 .37     45.02       21.73        76.4          12.00        77.87            730      9.20    100.00          73.00        Is      775           44
LI., L d. C.KI.           M-ib                20.77       4.N         24.T          75.4         711          47               74.70    49.04     ff.f          73.10                ' ust          o
Ponno Vlda                L.. PW-             40.50       44.73       3.025        70.92         741          9 24 S2 5470               U40      44.62         73.42      100       nn74          324
9.,h. A-ui                 oo... d. To..      22.40        iL79       04.90        0.0          60.0          7 4.33          S0.90      U04      14 74         n251       101       70070        1102
Jhgunudo                  Somb.                10.42        2.0S     100.00         7117         04.01        77.7U            3080      n9.46    1US2          72.62       102      9S 
L. Solod.d                Son                  06.20      9.7         19.74        77.70         77.74        71.72            U4.90    44.50 95.43             72.77      103       9044          391
C.bo..r.                  *-ni                 75.21      01.8d3      70 .1        U.4           00.32        71 .72           7 00     61.00      12.13 U      71.2        104      ag"0         4404
M_.,ol Od.g.              CS...                 0.00       6.74       04.83        74.78         97.06        72.63           4id40     0120       14.23        74.20      105       00240         300
Sn Ju.-                   S- Lo-no,           42.55       400         44.80        90.20         75S37        01.20           04.70     9U7.      51.02         74.2       106       0073          440
B... Ch.i.                S.n Lo,.o            12.04       2.17       44.30        *S.41         67.00        34.49           S.0  00.W3          01.01         74.24      107       00901 
L. Pd  b:.                Lo. Poz..           42.52       51.00         9.24       74 .4         7&22         759.1           TL20      hL49    100.00          74.27      17        0104          293
R1l siblo                 Smbu                 23.30       4.35       04. 51       73.0d        47.22         5S.U            00Ldo    d4452      17.9          74 U       10W       9121          149
Tr,id.d                  C.pi,.               2.03   U 4.04          30.10        44.2S         71.90        74L14           04L70     0n0       0005          74.32      110       01031         410
rob.,ndo                  Monlijo             44. 1       5S.24       21.S5        44.10         0 .42        72.01           0.20      00.24     9.127         74.30      111       01979         17
l.lonoCr G.n.            .L P*A.d.             39.14      73 03       52Lff        4.            02.0         77.05            62.40    95.31    100.00         74 .4       1122 24               1101
To.b,.                    Pnonomb             53.00       85.21       34.U4        70.02         *;L20        78.42           41.0        I47    100.00         74. 4      115       04041        1792
El Poc,.,.               Clobr,.                0.26      57.03        6.0         9.            90.00        76.1            74.20    g0.36      00.00         74.4       114       94802         191
Ciho Gualno,.             Cbm.o                 0.00       9 02        0.02        9  1.2  05.00              71              42.0      04 .1     40.77         74.74      11        45471         91
. L.gn-.                  CWIobr.             40J.4       54.27       27.27        U.42          6            7.00             71.4        12    10.0           74.74      110       0511          14
Ch,.r                     C-ob,.               77.g4      04.L0       30.50        73.02         47.          7227             55.70    00.04     00.05         74.0       117       0102          401
Rio Gr.nd.                So-                 52.60       04.97       28.7S        02.43        00            71.9            74.90      4.76     90.71         75.02      11U       07022         020
14.. d. Tol.              To.1                3231        73122       34.01        79.40        75.0          74.59           51.40     00.21      3.S4         75.05      11         ro7207       US
Li0.                      Rilo d J.            97.00      74.00       2369         74.4          92.7         7732            40.00     4.75 0    100           75.05      120       97251          44
L. Yog.d.                 C b,.               64.71       54.41       2. 02        9.07          90           44.92           67.2 30   00.01    100.00         75.11      121       07570         310
L-o   Monl4jo         2.70      24.32       36.22        7. U           3.83        74 73           75.00      0 .75    100.00        75.20       122      719            4
P....0.                   2.01.00             250.9       52.02       21.47        00.64        79.           75.55           70.70     07.10     90.02         75.27      123       0340          770
El A.                     5n,4  I6012                     00.09       24.17        75.00        42.01         75.00           73.00     47.04     60.97         70.45      124       SS0&"         400
C.b.c-..                  Chgl..dnI.          SI7.S       92.04        5. aS       7dL03        52.L4         67.02 U1.90               71.0      04.05         75.55       125     100222        710
Mlogoidbn                 Ms.....             4240         n25.2      10.40        6 .62        37.24         69.07          100 00     40.79    1D*.00         75.2       126      10n2e 65
Y90o                      Pi-g.                 0.00       2.         57.21         7 20         W 0.71       74.S2            00.0     09.2      22.0          70.0        127     106239          44
Ploo^ -so                 1. P...             60.04       1S.70       44.45   eg.00             73.4          0*2.42          44.00     40.0   U 2710           70S.   1   120      104427   2n
d     O  ,Hond.           Me  re.80                       54. 71      21.45          93         77.           74.44W  "O."i             0..I 1s00I.00           75.85      120      106754         121
T.b..io                   MoonijO             04.7 U      *2.50       20.30        91.00         72.20        63.32           7.20      04L01    100.00         70         130      10442          104
S. Jo.D   l.              A6.                  2.17       04.43       230           03           7.32         77.37           04.70     42.44    100.00         74.02      131      109150        1200
A,o..o..n.               L. Cho.r              4.00 W      2.00       313          70.          0.53         n.7              970       9.75    100.00         79.03       12      10               3
Lo" A'g.i.                G.Cu . b4.35                    60.00       17.02        5. U          0.32         74.59           so.90 W    9.39     07.5         79.11      123      I1032          116
Cabo,.                   ChhM.n              22.06       34.77       51.15        73.72        02.05         71.23           .9 20     07.90     93.04         70.17      134      104823         504
EsphoAmrrr.ilo            M... eo. 40O.                    415.0071.               US4.50       100.00        9045           100.00     0.45    100.00          7.u        155      104142          1
Lo. LI no.                Ocu                 25.14       Si.04       30.28        32.0         04.23         70.01           U400      97.07    100            79.52      130      107502         71
L.. Crn.br       p       P.n.mb        g       4.00       57.02      48.00         04.12        91.25        77.46            3S7.0 .5 25         0. 2    7    76 57       127     118392        0210
Yool:.                    PMog.                5se.9        04.54     00           71.52         70.13        76.37            0S0      02.11     01.20         76.6    4  13       121           225
C.b.c.,.                  D-id                 07.11      4.32        93.93 3S7.32               92.73        74.32           00.20     51.73     03.04         76.77      130      134217       13008
T-eIl                     Ch.pbn.             27.84        7.56        0. 7        77. 07       40.11         71.17           49.60      0e. 6    23.a4         70.73      140      I345S3         34
H--                      L.Chon.,.            30.57       02.23      44.34         70.34        0 474         0.46            2 350     4.0       30.44        73.73       141     134920          45
Qu o                      Morlijo             47.04       34.15       22.43        07.6          93.05        04.22           02.00     00.12     39S.1        7I .S        142     134326 415
Coo..                     Los PN .            5S13        69.05       27.79        77 .30        U3.83        7142            73.00     00.09     072           77.12      142      135020         204
Chi do Lo. .4..           C  .pi               50.W0      94.42       30.32         7 .12       0.01          77. 32          04.0       7 07      0.72         77.27 |      44     13554          514
Copo1                     Lo. Pmo..            50.50      01.39       24.45        77.0 W         2.70        7582             a s670   00.61    100 00         77.34       145     1353 
U P.-.                    O1                  604         04.Y17      24.22        73.04          I6          71.04           80.44     04.02    100.00         77.27       149     110544         231
L-Fne Enosd               Chl.W.p              22.17      73.01       40.70        72.04         7W1.3        640              Y0400     7.43    100.00         77.46       147     134u           93
El GOuASho                Do-o.*                477       27.45       7.0U4        67.30         70 77        7i.00           40.20     97.99    * 100.00       77.02       143     13715          660
CW-oobo,.                 S.M4. rb             35.14      47.10        00."        72.87         60.17        64.44            240      0 H.       54.44        77.44       140     13004          037



59                                                                          ANNEX 4
Targeting
RELATIVE     4          4          20           4            4            4             10           40        10         100
WEIGHTS                                                                                                                                    I
HOUSINOG IDICATORS                EOUCATION NDICATORS               NUTRIT1ON      TOTAL       %      COUPOSITE         RAIKG
CORREGMIENTO            DISTRICT    WITHOUT  WITHOUT         WITH        S POP          15           1       S POP AGE 6-15   POPUL    NDIOE        INDEX                 CW         ENROLL
POTABLE  SANITARY       DIRT      6-15 HOT      SCHOOL      SCHOOL   SELOWNORMAL   AGES    NOUS                                 I|ENROLL    GRADES
WATER   SERVICE    FLOOR    N SCHOOL    FAILURE            DROPOUT         HEIGHT        STO IS         POPUL                       N MEWT      1-9
Gu-nl                    San.                60.69       71.09      35.34        33.14        76,58        75.41            71.60     6.53     32.35        7771        150     132044         Su
El Co.ezo                Tonl                76.53       71.94      25.72        63.6         69.47        47.27            ano      6.52    100.00         77.n7       151     139155         111
La T.Ue                  ClbS..              36.27       53.12      40.94        87.24        77.45        74.73            6.70     66.0      69.28        77.u4       152     136203         48
LoUb                     Lea Pan..           5.62       76.70      32.74        65.12        70.03        77.60            74.40    99.29     92.16        7an23       153     136365         163
Jun ODz                  Pan                 99.31       66.57      69.76        67.8         6.162        7n43            64.0      50.1S    962.3         7a24       154      U7640        :249
PIdra. Garde.            La P1rb.            592.3       35.75      36.26        75.71        3.23         79.10           68.50     64.72    100i00        7136        155     14*339        646
E1 9-.                   Allay.              71.17       74.32      28.09        6.6S         61.16        71.28            7100    69.30    10000          7M22       156      U48513         1U4
JotS D. Esphia r          m. Muata           6 99.66     07.57      64.99        65.68 672E                75.00           60.00      5 .21    32273        71.3S       157     15609       7296
An--                        0o               50.37       4046       34LS.        62.7         U.75         7s0.n            6L20     916.4    100.00        72SS        15S     154S03         227
GuebL.                   Cha h0*..           63.1       8U.56       1204         62.44        65.01        E64.0            83       8o.6      44.66        72L62       159     150E5        2317
Coroz-l                  Meow...             59.30       51.74      34.04         70.07       6.47         6844             390      92.5    100.60         72.72       160     1SU421         66
Cascoera                 RI. d. Jesw         47.53       75.18      43S5         37.65        7S.S        71232            6.70     07.25     68.75        72.33       161     15s8          547
S..bC,                   Ch piga             33.98       42.94      835.82        5.27        50.10        68.39            44.90    99.28     61.69        783         162     156587        616
LU.o-.                   a"i                 21.12       42.71      51.09        63.12        19.02        57.38            76.80    99.12     97.94        79.01       163     15s3          248
El C.dro                 L.. P.zo.           17.73       76.60      29.51         .532        63.32        62S.1           92.30     91.70    100.00        72.10       164     15S961         6
Maieb.                   Pad.aI              93.90       $636        3.6S         33.7       100.00        6.46            100.60    62.97    100.00        76.31       165     156811          1
L. Mon.-uela             Al-y                52.n6       54.64      33.60        s192         7443         74.45            61.70    o6234     60.72        7.43        18      160602         91
0,. deDc t,              M- -e.              58.16       S47       3s36         64.17        94.36        75.SS            8170     96.38    100.00        7.48        167     164112        110
Qu-.                     D-vd                 17.45      70.36      S344         7.57         85.91        63.39            70.00    9126      62.59        72.47       163     160334         2Z2
goCa dl Mlac.            San L-renz          32.41       6.10       46.42        6S.72        60.36        76.50            7.a10    9.712     63.29        79,68       169    1i0s           265
Sat Loranz.              Sa Lorn              82.35      n2.03      57.64        77.2E        8133         67.76           44.20    93.76    963.7          72.1        170     1S6           3324
TeIn-d                   Chapga               5.97        2.N6      95.50        74.63        41.54        64.87            7s30    96.40      57.14        72.31       171     161021         158
Cab-e                    046                 60.46       70.72      34.34         7n236       30L.6        asS              saso     64.86    100.00        72.64       172     161332         211
CLofy.                   An.on               77.40       93.15      33.24        71.23        81.25        60.37            71w      92.34    100.00        72.u        172     1s618         387
Par             U. La. Table                 37.55       70.83       9.5         33.61        6.35         6.46            160.00    160.60    100.60       79.64       174     161603         14
lagual                   Le To..              0.00       6.17       38.46        57.05       100.60        62.13           160.60     ".07    100.00        w0.36       175     U16S16         12
mayno                    La. Tabl.           44.36       62.00      35.11        63.67        64.27        79.23            96.30    99.53    160.00        30.13       174     181724        109
Ri. glad.                ChtpIg              31.53       36.31      56.13        70.06        7311         7155            3.40      96.61     64.64        aLn         1n      16213        32"
T hi.                     Dalaog             25.40       7.62       53.44        75.34        36.35        69.31            34.70    69.15     99.91         a.n        179     162167        134
Canal PlF..             S*  FPr atoa         49.53       61.58      54.53        33.67       W6.           60.46            50.00    62.73     32.76        62.         172     16Z0           63
El Gubo                  Cha.-               35.34       31.50      51.79        35.27        73.62        7177             67.10    62.64    100.00 W0.30              160     163175        345
El Hw.a                  L. P54d.            75.03       94.55      45.31        71.68        33.20        73.61            72.20    94.03    130.60        65.38       161     1UaU         1463
Tc-nPatn                                     64.91      64.77       33.01         3.48        90.s5        77.60           39.60     63.66     625          604S       163      171n9        6161
El Plo.cho               OtU                 35.68       61.13      27.06        77.38        90.0e        t.4            1i.co      99.S1    160.60        as1         1n      1n72n          38
Cank.                    Cpi                 669.31      63.79      3S5.5        73.00        62.27        3.40             34.00    66.02     99.62        60.64       164     173455        226
A.. d. Gua.              T-no                72.33       74.27      3ILSS        71.83        30.63        74.53            77.60    62.4    160.60         60.64       13s     17nS71         1
Pal nal P e.-A                              67.83       36.26      5.09         73.48        86.35        78.55            65.70    60.32    100.00        30C.        136     175037       2386
La Ee-nada               Saod                 4.35       13.04      73.61        54.13        50.59        64.34           35.40     83.33    100.60        85.75       137     17564           17
Akrn_.                   Ch.tgdr.ola         74.41       75.65      64.62         73.43       71.36        75.33            46.30    33.36     60.33        65.72       133     17214        3960
E Calbaoo                L.a Pozo.           73.32       78.03      40.67        72.64        76.67        7140             7170      0.57    160.60        35.64       166     1M323         116
C.b ...                  Sama Ph             66.97       73.43      45.91        31.30        60.71        7.34             72L10    37.72    63.03         32.5        160     179S13       S1
Play. C4qu*a             Sav Isbal           35.72       2168       55.0 3n1.17               53.3         6046             73.60    32.n8    100.00        30.96      101      179533         30
L.a Pa-.                 Me ...              60.47       s5.1       34.04        7134         32.38        73.50           100.00    32.68    100.00        31.60      132      176032        s5
A-dr                     La Ch-re.           40.25      33.54       47.64        71.75        75.67 7n5a4                  72.60    32.32    160.00         31.09      163     160o6          45
Gwus                     Soo6ron             4154        34.66      58.37        72e.          3.34        u."              72.20    99.ss    99.so         31.34      164      16017s        116
Bno4.                    C a"                06.30        4.60      70.23        53.04        83.18        6372 s  1QJ0     60         .64     37.61        31.36      165      13o0          115
L A-n                    L.a P..             72.74       35.64      32.13        74.31        8.20         72.91            72.60    33.70    100.00        31.47       1N6    1S97            77
Lsa. Cruz                RaneoA              4610        6131       58.77        67.9E        65.31         127             72.00    37.38     3.00         01U43       197     1032         s5s
Cab...r.                 LafiU..             66.17       37.46      51.54        33.38        54.72 U7.05                   71U0     86.43     32.33        31.52       133     161710        329
La. Gi.a                 CS.a                63.4a       7138       47.67        s344         72.04        7sn3             72L.0    3281      32.50        31.64      199      1637          s27
C.b.c.ra                 SatlgO              37.33       87.73      60.37        36.60        00.65        72.10            30.40    65.n      63.13        31.61      200      163431      13o14
C.b.cara                 B    d d.0 Ta..     s5171       61.32      99.35        72.37        3zos         713             41.60     35.34     58.73        31.64       301     163033       1306
C.b...ra                 Clab,a              60.33       73.33      47.02        83.70        7.34         75s14            8170     37.90      96.57       81.33       202     164103        454
JequS                    Chtpiga             52.27       42.33      37.62        33.70        5.S          63.56            64.10    3.S       45.00        3.0O1       203     194ss8.       45S
La R.pr...              LeeCh- .             S15        906.1       33.72        7.11         73.41        76.23          100.00     99.05     63.54        33.05      204     154633 
Peto  Prh.               ChapWa              14.78       33.17     100.00        76.36        4346         74.59           7120    93.53       42.86        33.14     230       164784        161
Proar.o                  SwtJ                44.76       33.03      73           30.21        00.36        6e21            31.20     32.33     05.31        33.S       204      1894         311o
Puero OMaid              Sa IN.$             8312         39.1      5164         62.74 3a3s4               75.27            63.38    99.22     64.63        33.60      397      133130        336
C.b...,.                                     43.24       77.12      75.S         62.31        3S.70       6s3.3             63.40    37.65     54.7         3.64       203      199132        992
Obald.                  L.Ch-re              55.8       335s7       45.38        67.3         32.332       ne.36           3s.58     99.2      99.33        33.64      20      133n           116
94"gua                   DAvid               13.53       80.73      03.73        6155         69.17        31.12           37.5O     32.72     32.64        3.67       210      199213         51
Sate Tent.               JU-  A               924        67.21      S2.35        76.03        95.31        74.04           60.60     92.41    Os4.          83.6Z      211      139479        130
Pa  d. Saves-.-           Duali..            7124        60.58      63.53        52.73        77.60        54.36           7170      03.51    100.00        6.u        212      13358         105
Ctb....                  T7.4                62.70       37.58      65.30        32.73        3576         715S4           61.80     35.31     35.36 33.*1             213      200916       1335
Ae.hoe.                   Cha-..             41.31       73.66      6143         75.34        73.44        68.56            77.30    99.43    100.00        3107       214      201011         33
L.a C-ato.               La. Paz..           31.21       60.64      5440         73.26        72.76        7 233           60.70     33.41    100.00        32.06      21s      201076         6
Carnogl                  C3h33 33.0                      23          731         74           53                            73.60    0. nu       .30 w3115             216      201136 
Tao.                     Nlt                  0.15       77.64      51.58        31.15        31.31        75.W             73.20    36.0     1W0.60        33.38      217      201433        354
Sadagatl                 Chapgan             3340        56.60      63. 5        76.00        90.          72u1            68.00     36.63     32.68        63.43     231      2301580         87
A.a.vl d. Dkhi.          Bugba               44.32        1.90       4.35        6 0.3        3.2          714             36.70     6.03      37.1          3343      21       203249       16s
Ju  MD AZ6n                                  e66.3       33.44      54.58       7n.40         96.74        7n.60            70.30    32.40    100.00        33.47       220     203470        224
Prora                   Pat ent              62.06       00         63           67.32        33.17        72.31           37.10     72.40    32.40         3150       221     204130        5460
La Raya d. Caloora       Caaba               77.50       30.63      47.33        00.67        77.74        80.46           62.00     66.68     32.14        33.53      332    2z6o 7           67
BaShnO .                 6.... d.1 Tn        42.04       33.61      6 .5         62.6         74.33        63.67            70.00    36.16     5172         33.58       223     203311        214
Pogaa                    Pinoga               0.00       53         32.38        30.36        64.17        73.ns            75.00    69.58     7s8          63.64       224     30S3          107
ehtt                     Chpiata             61.37        4.        373          764          63.66        73.31            77.00    68.33     73.42        63.6        320     2e46          468
L Maa.                   Mw      .           60.53       68.35      SO.33        77.61        63.43        6444             69.70    64.s    100.60         63.76      228        9 2977      III
El Moto                     -                70.73      35.17       53.74        77.57       100.00        70.30           70.00      3.n33   100.00        63.76       227     213007         30
taldo                    La Ch-ara           31.67       76.11     S5.64         78.72          72          3 .831         60.00     6.532    99.36         63.31      223n     3 210033 
Sar                      Ch.                  72.17      6043      s5.33         73.6         4.87         3347             76.20    96.141   96.01         63.6        239     210270        12



60                                                                            ANNEX 4
Tar etin
WtEICHTVE    4          4          20           4             4            4              10           40        10         100
HOU94 C INDICATORS                 EDUCATION NDICATORS                MfTRrTON       TOTAL              COMPOSITE          RANKS  O
CORREGOMENTO             OlITRICT     WtTHOUT  WmtOUT         WtTH        % POP                                                                        IN A  1 PO  AGE 6.1S  POPIL    NOICE  NDEX  CL"  ENROLL
POTASLE  SMTARY         DIRT        S15 NOT     SCHOOL        SCHOOL   *ELOW NORMAL   AGES           NOUS                              ENROLL    GRADES
WATER   3ER5 CE    FLOOR    IN SCHOOL    FAJLURE            DROPOUT         HEOGHT        S TOIS           POP1U                       MEINT        1.3
ChI-br                                         0.13      94.72 04.03              36.03 3*.47                75.41            34 20     73.00    93.53         33.S        21      2`1467 
I-lv                     Alb                  47.53 U      6.23      72.*1         7.30          7.S4        71.04            70.30     35.21     99.09    3      93.D     2U1      210U24        1143
.Jo Con"l                 Le Tbks             64.43      39.73       5S.21         79.34        944.1        *5.5S            16.70     990.S    100.00         51.33      212      21306e          64
ColS dd.Non.               ono.               62L12       47.40       76.75        71.24        71.07         71LS0           6410      97.7    100.00          S1"        23       21646          2
2 n.Laodoo awwd            C Dono..           61.17   9 6.3D  D9.11                33.33        34.27        72.40      9      ial.   |1.00    1000   00           t       224      2|.U61       3250
Cuongo                    .4. L.bel          7n3           7.89      73.37         E2.4         74.1         E0 a.SS                    00.01    100.00         34.0S      210      21eES           46
Rhco6n                   Qudha                 3.45       312.3       52.93        93.10        94.07         79.04           71.40     *S.#7     65.57         U.05       24       217043         179
O.fird..                 TNonel               72.45       73.93      46.23         74.55        01.20         74.13           6740      36.6    100.00          U.06       227      317240         137
Be.get                    Do.W.6n             38.01       U.03       *0.10         71.22        66.04         70.92           696.0     06.75     68.00          4.15      2,2      217466         223
L.o LlUAo.                Sn Cr1o.            18.1        3621        61.32        70.07        3L1S          3w0             "500      67.33     63.5 a        u.15       23       2179364        5
Cho0qn                   Ch.P69,              52.02       23.30      S1.A          02.L0        77.0            .20*S         72.50     66.45     73.10         64.20      240      213127         103
50.10.5                   0..gba              32.76       94.30      S0.31         73.36        32.43         70.64           70.50     6.22      97.47         04.31      241      21644          216
Chkwn*d                  La.   s              00.91U30      QS00      54.1         3.32         02.39         77.13           03.60    0*.54    100.00         34.32       242      210S23          *5
P.-40                    PmI                  07.37      36L03       06.S0        *0.43         W3.67        70.62            66.40     66.70     63.64        U.40        243     224003        5530
Roeid.                   L.eChe.               53.01     91.12       51.40         76.62        12.          6546             607       629J4     99J.7         4.40       244     224168         120
L.Lo.aU                 E*  C1.0              91.92       95          03.16        70U.2        40.71         70.14           72.00     "47    100.00           04.S4      245      224305         117
iel. Crnod.              Alr4.                22.30       5.S4       15.e          7261          W.17        03.6             07.50    39D64      03.94         U4.60      246      224345          40
PS..                     Chap.                77.25       97.69       603.4        32.33        75.52         70.27           S0.0      99.51    100.00         U4.61      247      224467         122
ChNoa                    Cht                  36.11 n.03              36.56        74.U2        90.55         73.10           62.60     95.56   100.00         34.67       243      224063         36
PL. Ciohn                 Re hagwo            24.32       71.05       7l2.7        6.11         37.63         74.73           *2.D0     35.26     34.12         U4.75      241      224040        17
Flora.                   Tonol                72.39       63.07       57.00        73.50        76.71         7.33            67.50     99.59    10000           4.80      250      225024    U      4
Croeko                   Col.o.               33.48       2.32       66.52        76.71         73.32        75.27            75.20     93.06    100.00        04.36       251     225575         051
El C.d&.                 Ma.eo.               60.21       74.05      51.25         32.7 8D613                34.10           100.00     99.71    100.00         04.61      252      225606          31
SvU. Ro..                     b               16.54       32.97       66.54        67.15        32.49         *223             3.30     93.96     96.02         04.92      253      225024         213
M.ndoza                  L. Chrr.             48.21       03.22      46.00         77.63        97.77        7a3.7           100.00     95.32    100.00        85.03       254     22535          112
Cbo.ra                    T-no1               74.64       62.6        53.74        30.07        91.3n         74.45            00.50    36.73    100.00         35.05      255      226243         202
Go.yb.i                   eq 6. ron            35.47      76.00       63.10        77.26        87.24         74.36           72.00      3 J.1    t0.2          30.07      254      226490         242
L. 0.1                    Le Tase             932.7       73.48      46.63         74.02        93.77         80.46           90.00     95.04    100.00         D5.0E      257      226538          43
San Andri.                Boaa                25.67       30.36       70.36        73.15        e0.50         77.73           75.30     37.02     6.a4          65.16      25U      227137         Sao
Leo Caeiodos              F..                 9g.3        33.20       42.66        35.6n3          n3.32      606             *7.50     33.30    100.00        3e.16       253      227207          70
L.. CM- (E0..1            P..&                32.09       90 05       54.0         75.50        es.31         74.36           35.50     94.St    100.00         35.24      2        227502         295
Cabaere                  DOn-                 47.24      232.2        3s15         75.0         75.7          79.51           67.00     97.95    100.00         6S.2D      261      223061         50
El Beb.dere               Tesne               71.51       84.31       51.32        31.37        *D.59         76.73           32.50     39.17    100.00          53Y       2Q2      22n24e        1n7
oe. d. Cup                Pogna                0.00       11.66       94.05        76.19        67.35         73.23           95.10     35.27     63.50         85.37      2U3      223463         215
El P.4-no                 1.4.        u        4.85       32.20       52.00        30.53        84.37        77.22            60.00     36.04     67.51         35.23      204      23503          130
C.becer.                  Oeul                72.04       37.37       62.23        33.26        87.36         60.16           U4.50     14.11    100. 6ea5.41              2t5      220266        16s7
Gonoele VSoqu.z          Chbt n               19.44        2.73       e1.1         70.62        62.76         74.73           320       395.2     33.41         65.45      266      220340          72
Oom-z                    *ipbm                235.3 J      4.30       95.02        77.73        92.23         73.42           37.70     66.05      n3.01        6S.52      237    2320f2           Y49
L. Trone.                 T-nol               6.23        7D.57       U4.41        70.36        67.26         63.21          100.00     66.52    100.00         60.51      268      230610          g0
L.. MwU ko.              Chepo                63.76       76.56       87.01        36.05        87.09         75.55           73.50     96.96     33.02         35.92      263      221402         53
Sant CI_                 An.h                 74.32       04.46       61.74        30.64        31.75         30.46           72.30     98.37    100.00         3S.76      270      231622         no
L. E l. rgab.                                 27.43       60.J3      03.03         79.79        83.47         79.10           17.00     37.01     99.25         D5.79      271      222240         022
C.be.era                   edo                31.62       34.45       6  .         14.3         6.902         63.72           75.00     97.71     33.42         35.87      272      221132         *97
M-te Lhb                  R.na  e.61          77.40       84.41       73.62        63.61        35.35         64.52           75.70     95.61     66.56         35.31      272      213759         627
Ceboer.                  Lee P....           76.12       3210        SS.72        67.20        73.76         73.51           67.50     96.27    100.00         15.97      274      234222         574
El Ar.d.                 La Che.r.re          65.06 S     9.77       593.4        77.U4         67.19        75.41 U350                 9J.35     9963.        35.99       275     224578         245
S,lo"-".                 Cold..               72.20      37.12       66.21        76.73         36.20        73.91            75.50     37.62    100.00        36.01       276     215106         023
El Ca-a                   Tonel               31.35       31.55      57.34         62.00        63.17         72.40           36.60     36.46    100.00        36.02       271      220401        335
Sen Cubee                 D.cod               43.03       36.0        67.66        32.40        63.08        30.40            7S30      7T."       5.23        06.07       270      23573         247
CSb.. rSon                                    32 .66     93.72        72.25        30.31        76.71        76.00            7n.0      *1.S4     39.03        36.17       273      223210       2401
C.ber.                   Guhet-a              67.12        5.33      6 U.01        31.97        90.26        72.04            32.50      6.00     019.07       36.10       23      2S101          6S0
P.A.. Chel.              0...                 33.52       3s1        52.06         37.24        92.73        *1.1S            sa1o    93.70   '100.00           3.32       231     22040          222
Cabe.fa                  Chpo                 73.09       14.27       70.20        37.06         an26         72.03          3*.70      92.59    90.64          36.42      232      24`14        2000
Cabe-r                   A rdy.               62.20       33.33 U      0.51        V2.01        35.31         77.02           900.0    93.57      93.51         36A1       262      242497       1000
Se.d. Ri.                Arnt.                35.23      930.         61.50        79.43        05.02        73.55            77.30     03.16    100.00        01.46       304      242002        435
-onob.Hlo                P.*.                 94.55       90.23      57.11          3 71        14.10        73.42            75.00     30.41    100.00          6.40      23       241127         1S5
El R.Ir.                Anlon                U.00        31.41      S1.0S         70.23        37.39        79.23            00.00      SS.44    1W00.0        36.A       23       24352         22S
L. FeA.                  2.4.go               86.48       90.05   S 3.04    U       3.91        27.54        79315            31.20  U 4.27    963.3            66.05      231     24417         1405
Hu.do                     Lao Tabte           70.49       7350       S01.2         S130        ' 100.00      00.46           1W0.00     39.62    100.00         06.67      2r       244335          I
'Lee Dim                 L. Ch                S73.76      3.32       015.4         72.70        00.1         76.117         '100.00     0940      30.77        66.70       2n      24424           e
El C.avlktfo             Poo                  67.26       30.s4      4n.20         713.4        3S60         77.16           100.00     3.n1    100.00         66.72       260      244676         42
Ei Prr.wo                La PNda              00.51       U.4.0      57.00         74.46        06.23        7S.f6            61.20     37.71    1W0.00        36.73       261      240425        449
Ceb.cer                  L. Mil               07.10 S9   .*6         1074          07.sS        64.37        7.1              02.10     3S341    100.00         36.74      232      245960         5SS
Vlont Fri.               S14. tbool           655.7       22.42       75.53        71.13        02.71         73.             6 U.20    09.73    100.00         66.76      292      240N2           S2
L. fEnere-da             %Wboa                75.23       3.11        73.00        16.64        36.55        71.44            94.10     993.62     7.75        06.73       20       240153          91
pNo4re                   S.A. I.."            57.01        9.64       72.3 Y        2 24        3S.22         72.27          100.00     30.77    150.00         06.65      265      246220          67
C.Aor Geda.              R .o.ndme            6206        90.00      01.04         305.5        096.1        60.32            72.50     3741      36.s          66.04      2        246721        511
340. Doeebgo             5..ba                52.70       32.33      7s.05         31.67        62.32        70.00            75.00     *a3u       .47          36.61      267      247201        560
C.b.era                  Arr*n                32.07      936.3        60.93        04.46        93.47         79.10           36.50     30194     36.0          08.33      29S      252631        5340
C.b.c..,                 3.. P40              30.31       35.63       31.61        95.35        61.230        76.04           24.40     06.40     86.07         66.63      23       252101        470
Cab.y.                    Pta                 $3.37       30.54       56.65        76.14        70.62         30.4            14.30    93.25    100.00          87.00      300      253223         162
El Ckio (Oo-. No.21    PFoo                   32.23       39.1        62.47        77.13        37.63         79.10           78.60     69.40    100.00         37.15      301      2533o0          S7
S.a Re-                  Coldn.               5.53       33.06       17.14        74.47         96.53        67.43           S3S30      66.62    100.00        37.13 1      02     2534SS          65
Cab.c.a                   POrg-               34.42       51.90       37.26        93.07        72.29         64.07           63.20    966.3      30.67         67.22      252      252637         412
Ei P4r. (No.0. No.11      Pe*                 93.43       32.72       53.92        74.31        74.63         77.16           96.30     63.29    100.00         37.24      104      203s32         126
L.. Treca                Otawu                31.55       66.36       52.1         79.55        97.16         73.01          100.00     33.75    100.00         37.27      SO5      224047          54I
un. VW.1                 Colon               s672        61.31       75.37 n       0.56         04.27        75.63            62.40     62.52    100.00        67.21       306     256212        2160
Sabw.apend  (Sur No.1I   P.A                  30.56 SS      .17      36.73         77.31         3.631        7a.so           31.10     63.78    100.00         37.41      107      25641U         206
Rio bhdo                  D-no                42.00       6.00       U3.45         87.26        74.22         73.32           65.20     90.07    100.00         37.42      203      254653         44



61                                                                           ANNEX 4
Targeting
RELATIVE      4          4          20           4            4            4              10           40        10          100
WEIOHTs
HOUSNGO NDICATORS                  EDUCATION INDICATORS               NUTRITION      TOTAL       %      COMPOSITE          RANKING
CORREGOiIENTO            DISTRICT     WITHOUT  WITHOUT        WITH        S POP                        0         PrOF AGE 6-15  POPUL    NDICE        INDEX                  ClaMI      ENROLL
POTABLE  SANrTARY       DIRT       6-15 NOT     SCHOOL        SCHOOL   BELOW NORMAL   AGES           NOUS                             ENROLL    GRADES
WATER    SERVICE    FLOOR    IN SCHOOL    FAILURE           DROPOUT         HEK3HT        STO 15           P OP.JL                    1MENT         1-6
BS-  Air..                Ch,                    24       U412        S.           770           2.n4   76.91                 74.a0 UU.2          1 0           67.43      300n  25701             233
Lo. C.M.ioo               RI. de J..(.         00.24      *1.16         6S.41                    74.63        00.46              70     0 .75    1W00.          E7.6        10      207162          71
S.klu                     Ch.OW.              46.55       73.06       62.22        31.11         07.60        76.91           71.70     07.00    100 00         07.01      511      25704S         238
C o5...                   Ioqu.r6n            00.15       77.01       74.06        16.27        05.76         77.73           60.00     06.04     06.46         37.01      112      258024         47
0onol.                    Po.0o01b            57.43       72.37       73.54        73.69        *546          77.19           62.30     06.61    100.00          7.050     313      258127         10
Cdb..-                       1o 1.42                      3.40        31.57        61."         66.05         77.07           92.60      0662      6.33         67.06 S     14      206602         675
P5o oeu q                        .            6615.00     42.W        73.62        45.0        61.4          63 3.           100.00    66.60     62.14         17.61      315      25616           1
F= . 0.0lb                ChoU.                 6.43       6.56        1 .3 a      E7.S0         92.23        57.24           70.60     66.49    100.00         67.75      316      256342         520
Coch-.                    D-,4d               77.72       07.15       63.46        77.60        75.22         750.0           60.60     66.66     06.94         37.78      317      259S36         225
LO. O.. ArrbA.            C.p;.               66.02       90.12       64.39        70.01        82.3          00.46           30.90     66.43    100.00         37.60      318      200676         110
E.cob.l                  Colon                46.67       01.42      75031         30.24        3.os         74.18            60.30     68.32    100.00        37.61       319     260231        S05
Mlil                      3.v. rIobl           7 .04     25.03      31.41         17.03        62.5s 8        0.40           65.70    100.00    100.00         17.61      320      260251          20
C.rro Pz.                 3.g.b.l 63.56                   62.21  01     .61 6s 1.34             1.0           72.13           61.60     0.72       81.71         7.12       21      260724         473
V.I. RI'o                 L. TbI.              6E3 .62    62.50           0        6.12         100            2.3              000        .0      00.00        37. 8       322     260733          20
Lb,,,6.                  Cob.n                50 .00      64.30      77.23         600          3.24         71.31            76.6      0732.3   1 00.00       362 U       22      26134         4n7
A-1..  D. D. Io-z -       S n -o               06.60       3.71       U 061        g07.37        02 14        76.14            62.0      7 3.6     66.38            3 2      24     26666         7646
Ro-v                      Dolog.              02.63        7.26       72.13        70.02        6277          76.70           73.50     66.0      65.71         66.17      225      260030         2123
Oso Holo                 A,w,                 03.43       90.36       77.57       6E1.5                       66.031          3040      62.o     106.00          619       336      271025        1621
Conp.,                    Copk.                02.6       64.2 7   74.10           65.67         65.1         71.17           66.70     66.13      6616         061.22   n 27       271107         177
.t nb.                   Pr.                 100 00      g6 6.       006           666          6614         7600             62.60     75.51     6.605        66.24       325     276764        7507
Hon,ro                    O G....              65.31      75.32       74.16        76.64         013          76.26            70.20    93.10      97.36        66.30       323     276663         102
Rklneo Hondo (SI, No.2)   P-1,                70.73       95.73       67 55        64.7          376          76.31           3050      68.6     100.00         66.28      S30      270130         16
Cob-cr-dob-                                      U        00.46       63 0     2    .46         02.03         72.30           7.60       6.03     68.47         6640        31      263550        4370
L. Godo.                  mbo.                g0057       62.26       60.66        71.46         5            6  65 7          7.0 0     6.76      1060 30.44               32      23530           4
El P.,k.go.o              Lu Tb...            6.26        g4.47       35.74         0 .21      100.00         65.46           66.70     600 n    106.00         6.47        32        2             26
RloHo.do                  L: TdAb4             0241       76.75       60.60        6.211         5.,70        73.23          100.00     660      106.0            S52       34      263657          32
LI-    n G d.            O.u                 01.75       6.02        63.6         72.             s          70.37           31.0      644    1060              60          0      23775          11
rquo rzL.I.v,.            rwd                 66.66       06.71      60.61         06.41        00.60        76.31            02.70     77.02     66.22        u.6         33      26716         461
Bd. No.1.                Cob.n                06.74       37.50      06.72         6.30          6.30        7n3              01.0      7u.31    10.00         6872        337     266037        7671
AI..j.         ~~~~56.11   736         7.05         31i.'8       625           76.00           62.0      6.76      66.311         .72       233:    206772          130
Li.. d. Plod,.            M.o..                36.00 1     5.40 5      4.97        77.32         62.42        74.32           05.00      69.92    100 00         .74        336     200336         224
Nor.b,. do Di..           3.. I..b.1           57.74      53.00       72.07        I0 50         n31          35 46           02 30      06.15    100.00        31.76       340     26747          478
El Eopldo                JSo C.Io.             72.06      33.0        77.32        7.21         322           77.73           736 00     n.14      0.41         0.         341      367370         204
C.b-oor                   L. F.db              79.6       6.08        70113        82.30         97.03        71. 5              0      9 67. 30    106.00 60 3.10          342     336347         666
C-An.o                     Cpk.                66.16      60.11       74.21        05.37         6234         77.            165040     66.74      90.34        6313        543     266740         368
Lodond,,.                 Food                72.07       906.4       60.62           21         6.           76.0           100 00     0070          10606      6.15     344      2u0607          62
C.b....-                  S   Fr-e.oeo         64.2  1    07.29       6.32         65.40         30.42        a0046           87.80     6. 70      90.67        63.21       345     29326          457
Go-dobp                  L. Chorr             61.02      93.15        66.40        *6.46        006          7.7              61.00     00.74 U     .25         626        346     10250         3241
V.n ln*o                  L. Tob.              35.62      61.64       70 .2         2.35         77. 15       77 .0             130      0.32    10.0           6.:         347     20332          123
L.o A.dwo                 Podld               68.205      31.31       75.66        76. 7        t0U.6I0 66.0                  00        0        100.0          6.33       341      102633          71
El T-br                   AbInbg              76.6        3212        66.22        31.77        U58           37.30           01.30     6. 16      6. 47        6. 34      340      302703          09
L: Cobr-d.                8.Vb.o              65.75       93.64       70.27        64.S3         U6.3         7.23            70.90      B6.       99.90        66.39       350     303143         350
L. P...,.                 G...6                6 650      37.37       61.12        3.           64.49262.00                     00.     90.39    100.06         6.44        51      303211          70
L.a La.                   D-vld               6045        67.35       65.62         U345          .n          75. 2           05.30      1.67     65.14         6.47        352     305020        1303
Lbno Abgo                 Cu 6                 74.o3       00.00      713.4        62.95         36.20        73.50           04.70     60.56    10.06          6.47       313      305006          70
Lkdic.                    C.pk.               63.37       62J.3       73203        68.34        013           7320            37.0       666      602           06.46      354      305613         514
Codwi                    Colo.                637         96.64        648         95.95         4.7         7.1              650       U11    100.00           s.0        155     353136        2526
Cunund.                  P-.o.,.&            100          36.21      96.80          00.06        6.20        73.36            80.20       10      6617         6.900       356     310910        2777
L.. Guob..                Lo. So-ot.          87.47       33.05        6.61        75.10        6246          71.45          100.00     690.0  1W0.W0           66.52      357      311052         12
3,d1On                    R.n.    -Ano        60.47       36.72       61.17        74.12        32            35.0            72.70      0.67     6510          36. 7      3U       311114          62
Rio Ab.4o                FwAn                 99.9 6      3.73       0.76         66.03        902777 77.7                    94.00     7. 31     6675          a.         2       31226         1170
C.bo..                    A.o*                *7.U        73.61       75.96        30.72         3O51         75.32           00.20     66 13      97.70        36.0        350     313041         757
LI o d. Cn.               P.O                 66.36       90.36       57.66         o. 19      1000           646            100.0 W      .6    1W.00- 36                  361      313000          1
G.W.y.bo                  S.n C..oo           72.32       9126        75.63        70.00        10.           66J1            65.70     00.79    10.0          36.71       362      313105          4
C.br...                    ooO                94.50       94.66      902.4         32792        *l03          7.64            o8.0 0    962.2 03   6.U01        6971       253      31761         1656
El C.Io                   Ma                  00.97       65U         75.35        70 72        37258         74.66            4. 90     7.73    100.00         69.72      364      315177          1
Nu.o- Enp.do,             A-.on               0            1.04         1          30.64         3            73.01           60.40      6 .16    00.57 *9.2 S5                     315400         263
S. n ,obo Viojo          D1vId                646 A        410s      72                        I.               7            76.40      6.02    96.60           3.        86       315710         259
El G..hokoo               Lo.. 3.o.           87.35       90 0.       6552         7.27         8657          II 46            U440      96.74    106.06         6 .86     367      315764          75
Co.b                      Bn.                 01n.3       77.00        2.30        91.10           4          6544            6w00      6.10      96.24         90004      33       216064         270
.          N.             Cho-,,.             67A47       64.11       668.4        31.76        76..5         77.19           5370                     *as2 66.I0 05       36   31060              265
Sn r.dr. d.1 E.plno       S_Ibgo              64.56       3.          75.23        62.12S       031           62.35           76.70     96.05     6.3.s 30 37                       316543   1U      0
El CdhoI                  Agudtd..            03.10       64.72       70.35        67.90        62.0          75J.2           76.60     67.03    16.W00         90.15      371      317011         463
Cdrl.b6b                 Col.                 04.73        7.6       95 E          94.60        67 24        73.0             32.50     37.00    10.00         90.16       372     310364        1373
ChbIqo4                   D.vld               03.70       03.61       77.14        04.16        640 U         7. 23            33.20    67.4      6.69          90.25      273      210307        423
to.g             .                            6  0.0      91.6        66.24        6255          U1.1         76.42            6.       6.22    10W.00          9.20       274 3n3                 13
C:bocor.                  s::: h. bl         66.67       3444        64.36        36           64.57        100.0            73.60     0665    100.            906.45     275      31U65           42
C.b.y.                    Ch-                 3673        03.45       75.70        6413         01.75         76.22           37.50     99.11     99375         00.46      376      316673         103
Co-dir-                   Boq 6n              76.31       796.        37.31        66 70       100.00           U .62         75.00     31         4.           3047       377      216757          26
S.,4. Mrl.                 u..gdb             72.02       61.66       30.72        37.26        61.25         62.57           91.70     67.0      3 670         66.52      270      32206          30
L.. U-..                  S.n C.Ia            36.20       95.24       02.87        6416         37 54         62.16           77.40     0613      6. 91         66.53      27       30275          170
Sn Ju n                 Colo.,               6.26        65 54      35.8          02.43        37.9U        76.60            6.60      62 70     00 .00       10 55       30      322331        2050
El Cl4nu                  A.Od.,              U4.53       U .73       70.66        60.04        00.12         60.46           67.70     676 7    100.00         6.01      342      32273          402
fter.gW l                   -ADd              64.73       95.61       37.00        96.47        91.6          73 50           91.10      6. 76    60.40         30.2       234       24677        2144
5.m. A                                        D 1W0.00    909.7      30.67         05 34        6665         74.36            e1.00     6 .26     65 52        30.63       382     320002        2111
Co-ld                     P -.o.m              07.67      66.81       730          62.1         620            61               1.00    67.70    100.00         66.64       164     237414         422
El Rtb,a6.                 ..MI                74          43         72.05        360          77.1          7.3             31.10     63.37    100.06         30.4       385      227657         243
Sa.'.fll1                 Ch                   0.73       6.27        7.2                         0.27        76.73           770       6.12    10.0            so.6       36       3742           15
Cdbe..                    Po.lob.      b       74.85      83.23       31.62         6.961        0.42         76.4             90010     67.5    100.00        390.6972   5 47      232 9U3 01



62                                                                            ANNEX 4
Targeting
RELATIVE     A          4           20           4            4            4              10           40        10         100               i
_____________________    ~~~~WEIGHTSI
HOUSING INDICATORS                 EDUCATION IDICATORIS               IUTRJTION      TOTAL       1      coMrPOSTE          RANK8o
CORREGIMENTO             DISTRICT     WITHOUT  WITHOUT        miTH        % POP           V            Y       % POP AGE 6.15 |  OPUL    INDIGE        INDEX                  CL14      ENROLL
POTABLE  SA4TARY        DIRT       6-15 NOT     SCHOOL        SCHOOL   BELOW NORMAL   AGES           NOUIS                            ENROLL    GRADES
WATER   *ERVICE    FLOOR    IN SCHOOL    FALURE             DROPUT          HEIGHT    |    TO 15           POPUL                      bENT          1.6
C.Ak                     Ch.po                es55        n8.n        *1.5        75.52        SS 01         ?1.9 n17                  08.o *a n  *  U         0075       SU8      32200S         $65
VYu                       A.46.n              05.54        1.40       03.01        0206         60.50 4os72                   n2.30     65.E7     3740          6002       386      330020        1412
Gob..                     Dono.               47.02        556        n614         U4.26        77.74        7n.64             I.20      0.4T    100o00           8 5s     500      o30774         154
Sn Pr1,b  N-bo            D-Id                Q2.40       67.59       75.65        7S.83        69.81         76.S1 S0.00               69.16    9n24           506        So1      130626         152
B        3oSur           CoF16                00.75       67.46      66.63         67.48        S7.00        761.7            6Z2.0     63.23    10060         60S1        362     33s00         4164
a.do* Ibo.               L. t.os 66.00                   96.07       66.41         96.36        *3.47        7623             290o    64.27       9nn8         90.91       22      342`141       70560
C.olq..                   Pnooob.I             77.64      07.35 0     1.16         62.45        87.63         73a1            77.80      n9.0    100.00         6o0e       364      342184          35
El Robl.                 AobudL.              66.44       65.44 a0.04              86.6         86.05 7e.96 nU2.30                      U4.6    1o0.oo          0067       3n0      U3454         1270
PlW. L-on                L. Chon              63.a         6.66o     76.14         51.64        60.21        66.65            *1.20     H."       0046         61.00       36      343867         443
la  .o.                   L.. .bl..           96055       6.55        71.14        21.7S 6       0.27         756.2          100.00     S1.60    160.00         8 103     3507      14Y716 
P.r .k                   S0u.10              61.66 01     .66 U3.30               64.61        O3.62         75U.9           65.00 W    8.35      11.26        61.08      1        34.4201       27S
El 56..,. (No.1. No.23    P..&                64.20       02.02       70.45        64.70        63.03         76.64          100.60     960.6    100.00         61.06      38       534133         172
P.,Udo                    Focd                66.70       68.42       a4804        14.64       10.0           7a.66          100.60     66.54    100.00         01.11      400      34463           60
C.b..o.1                  Chkol               60.37       66.20       65.16        9811         62.3          77.32            7LS0    65.47    160.00         61.13      401      34832         3s66
Volcb                    B.gb.                60.64      01.60       03.62        san          92.56          0.03           62.0so    64.07     02.97         U1.4       402      1s5215        16S
Cild-.                    m0oqu               4.70        7 .72      61.73        70.34        62.47         76.64           60.60     06.11  e  9.46    U      117       403   SS1146            161
Son Fhnol...             Po-r               100.00   W 6o5.1        65.67    o      .38        64.811       74.73            60.50      270      66.2     1   01.16       404    254068         3732
Lo. Ang.l.               L.. 5.40            60.54   n 6.33          S2.50        63.60        7n.76        70.22            76.60     66.64    100.0         61.16       405      S S4101         53
L RAy. do S2. Mid.        S-wlgo              06.66       53.03       76.31        S0.62        S7.54         70.10           65.60     97.24     06.44         61.21      400      3s4001        600
El Coco.                  P r.n m*            61.66       65.S1       77.4         60.01        S5.31         60.18           61.20     67.16   1100.0 W1.27               407      355218        417
Br.o Colo.               L. ChIS. 0 6.4                  88.26        5.11        86.06         64.07    n    7.52            62.60     66.02    68.5 s1 S.4  4n 0                 3483.3        1121
Sugob.                     u.ob.              7.52        63.51       6.73 n         .6         62.34        67.30            76.40     98.33    *9.24          U1.36      400       681171         40
L.. Cu..                 Lo. Sw.8s            67.50       63.06       74.26        76.70        66.06         77.46 S5.2 nn               .38    100.00        61.40       410      38810          136
F.do Gon.wid.z           *bo                   7.44        7.66       57.43        6.63         *2L14        S0.46            63.o      ns.92     *9.77        61.42       411      38571          yE
El Hlgo                   *in Cut..           64.6 U       545        76.63        116.6        60.27         7  6.10          7.60     8S657    100.00        oIAS        412      156867         264
Chupnp.                   S.M. Mh             oo 60.00    67.04       75.25        U4.76        65.16         77.72 nN.30               60.48    100.00          1.*50     413      360123         256
El F.U.rgo-o Jo.. No.1  11.4         U         0.71        6.44       7S.3         6s.94        66.56         61.8     62 S2L0          66s4    100.00          1.54       414      15623          167
Cob ..r.                  A.846.              00.71       94.66      8S115          1.06        62.01        78.262           3L.0      64.20    100.00        85157       415 i     48883       1602
P.A.  n.-                 L.. T.5..           66.66       65.43       63.04        96.60        66.44         66.67           607       00.76    100.00        01.61       416      341063          3
Cop.d. -                 NHai                 90.67       91.46       U4.19        65.46        63.26         70.6            60o       67.27    100.00         61.65      417      561543         523
C.b-.,..                  S.M6. Mod.          66.57       5141.63     61.70        63.65        87.63         60.05           60.00     60.0    100.60         61.601      418      362316        667
El VCII.                 Ao4Sn                02.62       08.04       88.S8        6S.1         60.6          7a.14           78.10      5.84    100.00        61.70       416      3ss02         1262
Son Fill                 Son Fib.             00.13       67.80       SS647        62.26        65.70         72.63           61.60     96.60     66.01          1.72      420      34001         4n0
S.bon6.                  Colon                02.76       66.11      05.38         n7.64        00.17        76.63            n0.6 n    862    100.00          61.76       421     37240         3230
L. E.po..okn             P.nh                100.00      66.60        6.6"         95.46        60.60        70.62           87.60      67.30 U   6J 32        01.60      422      372347        507
El Chondlo               ron.                100.0W      06.63       66.n1         9S.60        65.31        76.23            *1.26 n    6.10     06.02        01.61      423      375152        26S
Coboc...                  Fononoml            65.70       65.66       84.42        86.43        64.07         78.01           00.o      05.60    100.00         U1.67      424      376100        3646
U. EnnU.                  * n Codo.           60.76      6S.S1        7a4.62       6s6s         66.54         U4.54           66.00     oe.17    160.00         61.61      425      376233         133
STij.ooBSoqu rbn                              66.49       66.07       62.57         6.06        6A7.          71.86           66.00     69.02     66.63         51.63      4n8   s170SS            126
L. Colord.                Lo. S.os            60.06       U4.4        76.02        60.78        67.00         72.40           KOO       9.37    100.00          91.04      427      376526         170
f.*.Qw                    N.oquron            60.34       63.22 3     6.90          0.64        60.21        66.00            61.50     66.71     67.34         61.64      42,      376620         2m1
S.t. k.b.l                Sint. 0b.1          63.66        6.73      100.00        641.42       67.04        6#.85           1100.60     "98.5    160.60       02.10       426      376879          5o
Son Jol                   Sn CI..             90.65       66.4        7a8.5        6.15         76.22         S1.15           64.10     60.60     8W.17         62.11      430      1e846          214
Cob.c.ro                  Dolog               so.4        956n.06     66.07        62.21        93203         76.23 n6                  66. 1o    96.37         92.11     4n1       311532       140
Cod..                     Tonodl              03.U4       80.64       80.40        71.54        60.65         77.32           02.70     66.36    100.00         62.12      432      301632         130
Nuov-  Pro-idnl.         Colo.n               80.1       96.65       82.42         64.25        85.46        70.98            66.760     6.00   100.00         92.14       433     38104          302
Chuploy                   Mr.    -            64.87       06.74       05.20        64.20        60.76         72.00     5      6.00    69.61    100.00          62.15      434      382049          5S
Po.blo Nuvo                                  100.00     099.3        6  6          g4.58        69.1         71.45             2.60     66.612   0.76          92.16       435     U4 142        2693
M.1. Ctk.                 Pnoobolo             0.g2        1 3.62     66.57        60.65        61.11         76.01            "AG40    68.      100.00         or22       436      384312         170
El E.pildi                G-.,&              1100.00)     64.40       80.71        51.01        60.61        609,.6'          64.80     6.43   '100.00         62.31       431      38444          142
Soo RU.                  L. Cho-.,.            0.61 U      4.22      76.61         61.42        62.76        70.23            67 70 .    9.17     98.66        67L26       438    1SUW            515
ULno Lorgo                Lo. S-*..           66.46       66.24       77.37        65.61        76.53        75027           100.00     60.83    100.00        621SS       43       385160        211
Po-d                      Agudko.              U4.22     U0.66        62.49        18.41        66.61         76.91           68.60     66.43    100.00         62.36      44       3841029       1741
. G-nd.                   Ponol.o             92.6        52.67       63.37        6514         65.5          7au6L            6.30     66.641   1W0.00         6.34       441      37022           U4
Pu.,to C. .o             L. Cho..r            98.41       05.73      06.60         6026         35.76        72.13            68.60     87.0      96.31       18241        4.42 3    7471         456
Qu rn lo0                A1.                  96.12       86.00       51.15        66.13        61.69        76.73            62.00     96.06     98.43        62.46       43       387620         146
Jun DomoN.                Arn..h              03.65       66.48       65.62        97.00        60.50         76.64           65.60o    96.ss     66l           *251      4aa       260025        2400
Aroo.o1no
Son Mi.h.                Pono                 02.23      50.02       63.77        91.52         64.21        77.05 o7.50               66.26     86.51         62.8        "s      S10416         393
El Coo.                  L. Chorr-            g2.64      57.50       68.77        66.65         63.47        76.50           00.90     64.22     66.74         62.06       6o    361234           gig
Ot.oq. Orlo.              Tbog.               15.73       66.61      1W0.00        66.64        66.61         77.32          100.00     6.110   100.00 WW61                447       6127           a
1.$ Rio.                 0ol.go               63.20       *5.24       62.16        80.74        65.21        76.76            67.50     6.1S    9n.91           62.70      "s       3S1351          73
C.b.o.,o                  Son Lobob           90.61i      66.65       00.87        77.61        81.60        18.1             77.60     68111     66.26        82.77       446      561578        327
L. Enpigodilo             Lo. S_.4.o          08.01       65.79       77.39        63.67        60.40         76.01           65.70    60.17    160.00          62.76      450    S21760           162
P.4.                      P.1.                00.66       66.62       63.62        64.36        95.70         72.13           61.60     60.37    100.00        023.        451      361636         66
Cob.c..                   Aguododn            66.20       6.02 3      64.56        06.6         926.4         7.0.6           62.60     90.16    100.00         92.60      452      295042        3203
P-o F116dn               Cold.                U 4.6      06.07       65.33         05.34        66.05        76.42           61.40     61.54    100.00         62.66       453     3S64so        1546
P-..4 Ch.                Chm-                 07.30       03.24       60.15        74.63       100.00        05.60             23,10    696.2    100.00        02.         454    3S601             11
Pon                       Mo                 100.00        0.26       77.06       100           57214         60.40           64.10     66.76    100 00         645 *                6688"        264
El Lo-no                 Chn.                 61.57       65.83      601.4          s5.12      160.00        6046             62.60     9.95    10.0            s.0        456      316605         1Y
P.O.                       d l                84.05        0 .27      U428         6713          5 .70        72.27           a3.30     60.04    10000          63.0       457      166638          33
And6.                    Pr%ooA               93.1         7.61      61.43         03.6           .11        74.16            67.0      04.32     1.66         63.11       458     387433         495



63                                                                          ANNEX-f
Targeting
RELATIVE     4          4          20           4           4            4              10           40        10         100
HOUSOO NDICATORS                  EDUCATION INDICATORS              NuTOmIToN      TOTAL              CO74tOSITE         RAMKIWG
CORREGAIENTO            DISTRICT     1ITHOUT  WTOUT          WY"4        YPOP           10          11 ,        POP AGE 0-15  POPUL    IN3OE        INDEX                 CLUM       ENROLL
POTABLE  SAOTARY        DIRT      6-IS HOT     SCHOOL       SCHOOL   BELOW NORMAL   AGES           NOUS                            ENROLL    GRADES
WATER   SERVICE    FLOOt   34SCHOOL    FAILURE    DROPOUT                 NiGHT         6 TO 1s         POPUJL                      MENT         14
to sAbi         D.W9.               IGA2        "17        80.70        asl          93.03        65.30           $6670     X.40      66.77        03.12      459      26750          72
Ceevwe                   P                                                                                                           0e OLII  25 0 l   95 ,U1  0.    2.90  91.42    100.00  03.15  460  303001  06
Los O*v..                Los S.R..           96.94       U4.47      77.38        97.77        91.04        72.01          100.00    96.40    100.00          31        461      30113         112
Potr.ro.                 Delege              02.36       64.44      67.40        7s.55        02.14        6046            67.60     60.32      700         63.23      462      300245        132
VYM. AlMe                Anqr                97.24      S6.D        05.67        67.17        02.50        76.76           6040      61.46     66.10        63.27       463     400311       m006
VIctorIo Lorenzo         Snan mnpto          66.30       66.77      60.42        07.12        31.25        7n.32           64.60     6046      66.64        62.31       464     403U62       1s1
vIE. Roslo               C-fr                17.02       65.63      60.60       "606          61.10        75.00           "0.3      68.2s      aal.g3 03.15           465      404136         6rs
RIo 0.d.                Pamm                956,76     966.64      aL36         67.60        s.76         0 6.00          64.50     66.24    100.00        62.40       466     404603        465
Cbe-re                   Mea-                961.0       63.70      87.02        63.05        6S6T         60.16           66.60     36.25    100.00        62.S4      467      400413        61s
BaSlco                   Ch-                 0675        37.38      30.32        L30          656S1        77.16            6.so     97.52     66.62        62.57       40s     406000        Soo
Morlagud                 Chohri              06.60       BLOC       *1.61        65.43        62.62        76.01           66.20     64.40    160.00       96.63        466     407607       1t"
Chtploo                  Chap.              100.00       60.38      0.13         6.SO         60.34        6o04            67.70     60.60     6.S61        63.76      470      407653         46
Cab.a  n                 C.p.                6S.16       6066       66.66        65.72        6.02         04.64           65.70     67.67     66.60        62.SO      471      400070       1138
El Cwrt                  L.. Tble            64.26       60.74      64.63        05.65        73.56        62.65          100.00     62.46    100.00        64.04      472      401140         61
B.e. vim.                Pa--               100.00      6s."        66.66        94.75        64.07        76.64           03.50     50.22     66.57        04.04      473     412310        3170
C.eha.r                  Sa Cml..            64.66       94.61      66S5         61.01        05.611       30.46           06.60     06.06    06.60         S4.07      474      412622        022
C.ho-r Pbe.                                  01.64       68.112     86.10        37.22        JZiU         77.73           64690     6709    100.00          4.21      470      4135361       6
Sno. Am.                 Lo. S.ates          06.25       64.56      6W60         66.06        00.60        77.16          100.00     66.45    100.00       964.38      476      412726        6
F.anW                   L. Choer.            0.0S4      67.32       66.00        60.02        00.00        75.06           60.60     6601     6.U0          04.42      477     412037         200
L. Paln                  La Teb..            66.27      U6.00        6.63        67.76        6S.72        77.32           0000      6041    10000          64.3S       475     414206       236
Sadba -da                Los Sa.a.           67.52       6.61       85.44        6l1          60.50        74.18          10         615    100.00          6U4.4      476      414401        I16
VIR. CanC, Cn.                               60.31       66.62      66.36        66n.611      6.72         66.72           60.00     66.37     66.76        64.63      4n6    414517          11s
El CooSd                 Le. TeN.            65.211      6644       85.36        62.67        01.54        717.16          65.60     38.36    100.00        64.74      4611    414643         126
C.b.. rp-ood                                 66.43       67.34      64.30        601          66.07        67.3           100.00     06.52    100.00        64.74      462      414761        t4t
La. L..                  Cha                 69.00       67.20      66.71        6242         64.67        76.64           650       66.64     66.37        64.63      463      414967        176
Crb-c                    P.dn5               63.40       67.17      60.20        63.65         2.692       73.77           60.60     60.1    100.00         64.64      4u       415202        325
Cebo- or-e                                   66.1s       640 .       7.70        65.60        02.04        71.60           00.60     66.44    100.00        64.16      40S      410114        622
L.. Tdbi. Ab4.           Las Tbl..           9.141       66.14      6610         66.30         0.00        77.46           60.60     66.61    100.00        64.62      4U       416160         46
Los An-a.aoo             DoIg.                3.61       6L604       5.26       6S.3          60.50        76.50           66.20     66.26     66.4         64.601     457      416402        242
C.b..a.                  N&A                 64          68 9n.46   62.1         I0557        92.47        73.63           04.60     00.27    100.00       6a0.3       460      417SS4       16n
lbo.g.                    *a..               64.26       66.16      60.21       S6.6          672          7.77           160.00     08.85     64.17        05.s       406      417625         dl
Crabern                  Lo" S_4O.           67.23       06.01      64.45        67.38        6120         77.00           65.60     65.76    100.60        65.3       460      416266       1601
leroc kS  MBg-                               00.66        0.5s5     96.62        607           05A         60.11           65.60     0Z3.       0.53         326       401      422174       25
F'rsoo                  PFod                 6            6.44  6a 23.63         6S6         10.00         7046           100.00     66.76    100.00        65032      4*2      422210         41
Caoc.r.                  La. Tbb..           66.25       6.46       07.03        642          00.26        76.28           63.00     65.81    106.00        85.50      463      424260       2067
El Mas-b                 La Tabl.           160.60       07.13      0016         SL6          61.10        66."           100.00     66.63    100.00        6S.66      464      424330         40
Sn Folpa                 PertA              100.00      66.63      100.00        6547        61.36         77.46           64.30     64.60 U    667         65.71      400     426126        376
C.b...r.                  c                  66.47       666s       90.70        66.S        6s1O          76.61           665SO     67.67    100.00        60.0       4"       426016        0s1
La Araa                  CI,eS               66.53       66.40      64.36        6S53         62.26        00.11           68.5      00.73    100.0         95.01      467      420032        614
Sa J..4                  La. Tble            63.22       17.63       6.?71       61.25       100.00        74.56          100.00     66.70    100.00        60.0       466      428876         46
Tr- Oobad.               Los Sa4V.            0.211      05.ss      61.67        66.46        f6.70        7051            6O4    61.2S    100.00           96.10     4*        426614        124
La La                    Lav TabLes          640         66.60      67.00        60.63       100.50        67.21          100.00     68.77    100.60        66.10       so0     426,5S         31
La Tm                    La- Tabl.           66.42       0642       9143         61.36        60.47        76.14          160.00     90.26    100.00        96.24      501      426603         57
Las PayA.                La Table.           06.8        00.6       66.00        012         100o00        72.60          100.00     60.26    100.00 w6034             502      426S6          U4
Cabacare                 Ch.Wo.              97.75       06.02      03.23        634          76.4         634            100.00     60.70    100.00        06.38      503      430002          6
Caabo.-.                 Taboga              03.60       62.3       00.20        03.22        06.61        60.46           66.0       6.40     699.62       054        504      430115        113
G-erera Antb              Guer.4           100.00       66.13      60.61        8 6.7        00.05        64.70          100.60    60.85    1oo.00         60.0        so      430147         32
Sataadoro                Lav Tab..          100.00       66.13      96.70        64.30        62.40        6230           160.00     66.62    100.00        6072        506     430162         1s
Canb .                   Chrn-.              07.2        66.13      96600        64.16        61.10        06.7            07.50     66.77     60.64        60.0        507     431164       1022
S-.Vo Donvngo            Lae Tb..            6.76        66.6       ".35         06.6         6.6          76.37          100.00 U663         1 0           67. 2       5       431302        III
La E-.                    Cur                6.60       160.50      f6f01        60.5s       100.00        71.17          100.00     60    10.0             67.         s0      43134 
Otoqo.. oold.on.         T*g.               160.50       63.33     160.00        661.50       00.00        30.46           68.63     66.62    160.60       S6IO         s1o     43134           0
Moles
Honn povety Inrdatorn a,. Pereos Of h."  dh. wthoi pol.bi- wotl. r hot sedary ws.d. sod wIh r d ton
Eduaor, povrdy inroaon erperrae. of shodo  sod. eklte., (0-15) rod fterang schod. end mrea.of Sudots In basjo odm,    it WI1. Wd .e. rnetions and oftos.w ho
drop Dn of chool.
*nrolon indotcor o Uh. Perc.rayofd prtotary *choo poDS agae lo 9 belw norm al hodgit.
L     Lower InrdocUnioN. wort s ho-nng. medio.nd W   ao.Oon cortitlon with gwr poptIan dre.  and Nhtihr psredg, of ndgseo    toptlon.
* The oooVot povdy ind.. lsth. afg. of ohom . me,reto  andnr tion lrdetoo. WgPted by the totslcdoool egeo poptiotn (s.. Ito 1S) ad by n. promdage of indgwse p1piAtin
by .oogrnaNro
Th. proeId ol tegt tMh pooro  IC0 -orr-gnkn.wos (37 pD . of al th. coreginedo  Ib. Oh. vofty). woh le d. 41 pwrord of the e td In. qede I to 6.
S-r,.a  PoptUton ad HoFbug Cn. 100. Para.
1-ls d. SbaO.soin d. N-dae d.deo BSeo. b Lepa dle Pobars. MIPPE. 1663.
Seto      atitlo.. 103. Lrery of EdEaon. Pam.
Schod Chiken Halgth Cn. 1694. &Wls, of ErheUos and Hean.h Pere.



64                                   ANNEX 5
Multigrade Teacher Training
TEACHIER TRAIMNG IN MULTIGRADE METHODOLOGY
Background
1.  The first training seminar on Multigrade was planned and implemented in 1986 and was delivered
for technical staff of the Provincial Supervision Bureau. This Bureau was assigned, and still has,
responsibility for disseminating guidance to teachers on techniques and strategies for multi-class
teaching. The core document entitled Work techniques for multi-class teachers was presented and
discussed during this seminar and now serves as the methodological guideline for teachers.
2.  Based on this seminar, the Ministry of Education has continued to implement teacher seminars for
the purpose of increasing the number of trained teachers, although from 1987 to 1989 the country's
political and economic situation limited the planning of new training seminars. Seminars increased
from 1990 to 1995 and workshops were held to prepare activity and content charts for mathematics,
science, Spanish and social studies in compensation for the lack of free textbooks.
3.  To date, statistics show that, of the about 3,800 active teachers who teach various grades at the
same time, only 625 of them, along with 425 teacher interns, have been trained in the relevant work
techniques. Moreover, due to the lack of an ongoing system to assess and monitor trained staff, it has
not been possible to assess the actual impact of training, that is, its effectiveness in terms of the
application of techniques to improve educational achievement. Therefore, methodologies will be
offered through training to facilitate the development of teachers' creativity in organizing leaming
settings, make students participate in skills building, and ensure the essential elements of advancement
and competitiveness.
4.  In addition, the provision of classroom libraries and activity charts, and the use of innovative
methodologies, will require seminars and workshops to achieve effective, comprehensive improvement
of educational quality, in terns of the interests and needs of students and the community.
5.  Therefore, the MNNEDUC/World Bank Basic Education Project, through its efforts to support
education in Panama, proposes to handle the situation from the standpoint of teacher training and the
provision of educational materials to all schools with multi-class teachers throughout the country, by
means of a training and skills improvement plan and classroom libraries which are considered basic
resources to enhance the quality of education.
6.  It is essential to increase the number of multi-class teachers skilled in proper procedures in order
to ensure the best possible use of time and resources, so that the objectives and core subjects of the
elementary school curriculum are covered satisfactorily. In the future, this could also enable graduates
to continue their studies at the next educational level with the required entrance requirements,
contribute towards improving their environment and participate more efficiently in community life.
7. Training and other skills enhancement efforts will be guided by a model that encompasses the use
of participatory, dynamic teaching techniques leading to autonomous student achievement and that
includes parents and other community institutions in the learning process.



65                                    ANNEX 5
Multigrade Teacher Training
8. Due to the teacher's importance as a basic means of raising the quality of education, skills
enhancement plays a leading role by helping to integrate efforts carried out in the classroom and make
them consistent.
Training of Teachers and Supervisors
General Objective
9.  To increase the number of students in multi-class schools who achieve passing grades and
remain in school, through the proper of use appropriate methodologies and learning materials.
Specific Objectives
10. To improve the training of teachers and supervisors who will act as facilitators of the
teaching-learning process, in the search for, and implementation of, altematives leading to the
achievement of more effective, efficient education in rural, indigenous and disadvantaged urban
areas.
11. To set up teams of facilitators who will disseminate the various phases of training,
monitoring and assessment of active teachers and student teachers by strengthening the existing
organization for this purpose.
Description
12. The training offered will include efforts to counteract the limitations or lack of training of persons
working in multi-class schools. It will also cover means to give special attention to children who are
behind in their studies and to the use of learning materials and school libraries. It is proposed that a set
of technical and teaching activities be prepared to contribute to the training of creative teachers with
knowledge and skills in handling several classes at the same time; in the optimum use of work charts
and classroom libraries; in effective distribution of available time; in better use of school and non-school
space; in the use of strategies that include community members in educational and curricular efforts;
and in the use of active techniques and the development of varied activities that help students to learn
independently.
13. It is also proposed that the teaching function of provincial and national supervisors be
consolidated to ensure training as well as guidance and monitoring of daily practices, in order to
institutionalize the proposed actions. A group of national supervisors and 148 provincial supervisors
will conform the technical group in charge of training and monitoring responsibilities.
14. In the qualitative improvement program for schools with teachers of multi-grade, various types of
efforts to enhance teachers' skills are proposed, including on-the-job training; the provision of books,
documents and guides; the publishing of monthly information bulletins; demonstrations of learning
materials prepared using simple resources, etc. A national congress is planned for year m and an
international one in year IV so that teachers and supervisors can present the results of the application of



66                                    ANNEX 5
Multigrade Teacher Training
their new skills and share their experiences. It is hoped that this will motivate research and the
application of techniques leading to qualitative improvement of education in rural areas.
15. Two courses will be given in two phases: an intensive course during the vacation period, with 30
classroom hours and 15 hours outside the classroom, plus a feedback session on the sixth day; and an
intensive course comprised of seven Saturday sessions during the school year, six classroom hours each
session, which will be supplemented by activities in daily practice. These courses will be mandatory for
supervisors and active teachers, that is, the total number of educators will be doubly covered. An
optional course will also be given to cover once again the total number of educators that constitute the
potential demand. The multi-class teaching course will also be given to future teachers before they
graduate from teacher training school. The mandatory courses will be :Multi-class, Specialized
teaching and a third course, optional, deterrmined according to specific needs. Efforts will also be
developed to strengthen group working techniques, specifically the preparation and implementation of
activity charts, resources and basic teaching materials (experience charts, felt boards, numbers box,
flash cards, pocket charts, logic blocks, etc.).
16. A specific workshop will be offered to 80 teachers on the preparation of activity charts to help
children construct their own individual and/or group learning process and to collect a set of charts that
can later be printed and distributed to all multi-class teachers. Participants will be selected by provinces
among multi-class teachers who have demonstrated relevant abilities and skills.
17. A library course will also be given to multi-class teachers and to junior high school teachers. To
supplement this training course, classroom research and reading encouragement will also be planned.
18. All courses will be graded.
19. In addition to the above-mentioned courses, the Multi-class Coturse will be added for future
teachers about to graduate from teacher training school who, despite student teaching in multi-class
schools, require specific methodological and theoretical elements which are not included in the teacher
training curriculum. This course will only be given on an intensive basis.
Training of provincial and national supervisors
20. Before taking all the courses for teachers, supervisory staff should participate in a mandatory five-
day course consisting of 30 classroom hours and 15 non-classroom hours, plus a feedback session, on
Teacher Counseling.
21. This course will allow future teacher facilitators and supervisors to be selected, in close
coordination with their respective functions.
Training of provincial facilitators
22. In order to offer workshop seminars for teachers, provincial supervisors and later the best
qualified school principals will be selected to act as facilitators, based on the teacher counseling course
and meeting specific requirements.



67                                    ANNEX S
Multigrade Teacher Training
23. Subsequent training offered to them will cover the content of the syllabus prepared for each
course, and knowledge of the methodology to be used, as contained in the facilitator's manuals.
Moreover, for use after their training, they will receive a supplementary anthology and a glossary to
help them better understand the contents.
24. National supervisors will administer the courses for provincial supervisors. This training of
provincial facilitators, related to the courses, with an intensive stage of six sessions and a longer period
of seven Saturday sessions, will take place at provincial headquarters, covering the established number
of sessions plus seven planning and assessment sessions lasting four hours each, prior to each Saturday
session.
Training of the Central Technical Group [GTC] (National Supervisors)
25. For each of the courses provided to provincial supervisors, members of the GTC will receive
training by the persons who designed the respective course. This training will take place during
working hours at the central offices, and should be supplemented by conferences, workshops or other
events related to the contents and objectives of these courses.
Course Contents
26. The contents of each workshop seminar will be organized in two large blocks, according to the
type of teaching: theory and methodology, for the intensive phase; and teacher strategy in the
classroom setting, for the seven Saturday sessions. Those related to Teacher Counseling will be
organized in five chapters because they correspond to only one phase.
27. The contents will be consistent with a constructive teaching concept. They will cover techniques
and methodological procedures aimed at multi-class work, teaching groups directly and indirectly,
creativity, research strategies, use of the library as a basic supplement to the teaching-learning process
within the child's social environment, and mechanisms for process and product assessments. They will
also include guidelines for participating in the preparation of a monthly teachers' bulletin for multi-class
teachers.
28. During the Saturday sessions, spread out over the school year to monitor teachers in their daily
work, the formation of working groups will be strengthened, taking into account the appropriate
distribution of contents, suitability of curricula, and learning assessments. During this phase, note
should be taken of teachers' experience in implementing what they learn from these courses in the
classroom setting, and various new and highly practical contents should be included. Short-term
remedial courses for slower students will be stressed, based on the use made of the results of ongoing
assessments of learning and teacher performance.
29. The Saturday sessions, in which the planning, development and assessment of class work will be
monitored, will imply the cumulative acquisition and application of skills.



68                                     ANNEX 5
Multigrade Teacher Training
30. The provision of classroom libraries is a valuable support in supplementing learning activities, and
therefore proper training will include the administration and management of such assets, so that the
bibliographic materials supplied can be put to optimum use.
Course Assessment and Accreditation
31. During each training stage, strict assessment criteria must be met which will affect course
accreditation.  Product and process assessments will be included, along with assessments of the
learning of both contents and methodology, and of attitudes. For course accreditation, together with
the results of the assessment, attendance will be considered (100% for the intensive course, and six of
the seven Saturday sessions, provided that the absence does not occur during the first or last work
session). Course accreditation will be essential requirement for members of the technical group and for
provincial facilitators, so that they in tum can provide training.
Printed Support Materials
32. Each course will have printed matter prepared ex profeso: documents for teachers (anthologies,
Vwth guidelines for their use), manuals for facilitators (course description, methodologies for
conducting each session and guidelines for their development), and assessment tools (both for courses
and participants' learning).
33. There will also be similar documents for the intensive phase and tools for the development and
monitoring of Saturday sessions during the longer phase. Besides the documents prepared ex profeso,
other texts that are considered pertinent for the GTC may also be included.
34. The training programs and materials that are prepared will be submitted for consideration by the
relevant sector and by an expert in the subject who may be a local or international consultant, and who
will issue an opinion on the matter.
35. Courses that receive favorable opinions will be validated with teachers working in multi-class
groups. Based on the results of opinions and validations, relevant changes or adjustments will be made
before they are designed and published.
36. Moreover, based on the products obtained from the workshop offered to 80 teachers, 120 activity
charts will be included for grades m1 to VI, dealing with the four core subjects, i.e., Spanish,
mathematics, science and social studies. This package will be distributed during the Project's second
year of operation.
37. During the third year, a second set of activity charts, similar to the previous ones, will be provided
to students; these will be the result of multi-class teachers' efforts and creativity.
38. After the start-up of the Saturday sessions during the longer phase, an informative bulletin will
also be issued. It will serve as a forum for teachers' opinions and to disseminate activities prepared by
them. The best of these will be selected and published monthly in the bulletin.



69                                     ANNEX 5
Multigrade Teacher Training
Operating Model
Technical Group
39. A central technical group, consisting of four full-time members, will be formed, preferably with
staff from the elementary school and teacher skills enhancement fields. This group will be responsible
for planning training activities, guidance and monitoring; for designing courses and preparing required
support material; for training provincial technical groups; and for monitoring and assessing activities
carried out by provinces. National supervisors, who will be responsible for providing training to
provincial facilitators, will join this group.
40 A Provincial Technical Coordinator will be designated for each province. This Coordinator will
be responsible for organizing courses for provincial facilitators and multi-class teachers, for overseeing
courses for teachers and supervisors, and for assessing the performance of provincial facilitators and
the development of courses.
41. There will be a ratio one provincial facilitator for each 30 teachers.
Teachers' Network
42. In order to consolidate a true training system in which actions can be institutionalized, teachers
will receive counseling in their groups or in larger group meetings, and the effects of training will be
monitored in the classroom. These actions will be compatible with the technical and teaching functions
assigned to provincial and national supervisors under current regulations.
Headquarters
43. The training of provincial facilitators, teachers and supervisors will take place at headquarters
located in places that are accessible to registrants, in order to facilitate the participation of persons
working in remote places with little communication.  Provincial technical coordinators at their
respective headquarters will be responsible for coordinating training dates. This implies dealing with
logistics, checking on schools and counseling provincial facilitators when they need guidance.
Institutional Self-Assessment
44. In order to verify compliance and quality of scheduled actions, as well as to support decision-
making on strengthening or correcting the processes, members of the central technical group and
national supervisors will make counseling and monitoring visits during the development of activities.
45. Each supervisor will make an annual visit during teacher training. He will also make four more
visits to observe the work of the teachers' network and consider the work of four of the Saturday
sessions.



70                                   ANNEX 5
Multigrade Teacher Training
46. In turn, the Provincial Technical Coordinator will monitor the intensive course, the operation of
the teachers' network and the Saturday sessions.
47. Annual planning meetings are held with provincial technical coordinators, as well as assessment
meetings with provincial technical coordinators and supervisors, lasting at least three days.
48. The monitoring carried out by national supervisors and provincial technical coordinators as well
as the teachers' network will follow a general design and employ specific tools to obtain systematic and
systematized data for use in institutional self-assessment.
49. With the proposed assessment model, it will be possible to detect whether training objectives have
been satisfactorily met. Teachers, students and members of the community will be consulted for this
purpose.
Equipment for Provincial Technical Coordination Units
50. Each provincial technical coordination unit will be supplied with equipment consisting of a
monitor, video cassette player, microcomputer, printer, modem, scanner, overhead projector, and
mimeograph machine. It should also be provided with a school library, sets of charts and any other
resource distributed to schools whose teachers participate in the workshop seminars, in order to make
the unit more familiar with how to use and maintain them.
Actions
To form and train a team of four technicians at headquarters plus the national
supervisors of the Ministry of Education, in charge of coordinating, counseling,
assessing and monitoring training.
To train 148 facilitators (provincial education supervisors) throughout the country
in the month of January, who will be responsible for training and monitoring the
work performed by multi-class teachers.
To train 3,823 multi-class teachers in rural, indigenous and disadvantaged urban
areas, in teaching techniques and innovative strategies to better assist various
school groups at the same time.
To train 566 multi-class elementary school teachers and 198 junior high school
teachers, on the use of school libraries.
To carry out two congresses of multi-class teachers: a national congress in 1998
and a sub-regional congress in 1999.
To prepare ten teacher-training documents.
To print 176,810 copies for use in teacher training.
To prepare four sets of 120 charts for each of the four core subjects in elementary
school grades m, IV, V, and VI.
To print 2,592,000 activity charts for use by students in multi-class schools around
the country.



71                                          ANNEX 5
Multigrade Teacher Training
BENEFICIARY POPULATION
The target beneficiary population by province is as follows:
Province             Supervisors     Teachers     Teachers from        Teachers from
J.D.A Teacher       Teacher Training
Training School      School
Bocas del Toro             8             285
Cocle                      17            476
Col6n                      7             222
Chiriqui                  33             726
Darien                     7             224
Herrera                    19            294
Los Santos                 10            253
San Bias                   3             43
San Miguelito              8             32
Central Panama             10            211
Western Panama             13            264
Veraguas                  22             793               12                  400
Total                     148           3,823              12                  400



72                                  ANNEX 6
Textbooks
TEXTBOOKS AND EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS SUBCOMIPONENT
Background
1.    Several important developments have taken place recently in Panama with respect to the
evaluation and provision of textbooks. In 1958, 431,943 textbooks were distributed which, although
not enough for each child, supported teaching through group work. In 1970, under the ODECA-
ROCAP agreement, a half million mathematics, reading, science and social studies textbooks were
distributed, as well as 20,000 teachers' manuals. In 1972, the total reached 1,813,500 books. Between
1976 and 1979, printed materials prepared by the Ministry of Education were distributed to support
Educational Reform programs. Since then there have been no further projects to supply textbooks to
schools.
2.    With the support of the UNESCO-Germany 507 RLA Project, since 1992 the Ministry of
Education has promoted a program aimed at strengthening the process of preparing, producing and
using textbooks and reading materials.
3.    For the purpose of carrying out a study on policies and strategies in the field of textbooks and
reading materials, the Expanded Commission on Textbooks and Reading Materials was established,
consisting of Ministry of Education staff and representatives of national associations dealing with
textbooks and reading materials. Two important conclusions were reached from the study: the lack of
a coherent policy on this matter, and the insufficient provision of textbooks to schools, despite efforts
made in recent decades.
4.    Despite a good supply of textbooks and reading materials on the market, according to a study
carried out by the Ministry most of the textbooks offered by publishers follow a traditional educational
model based on the transmission of contents.
5.    The textbooks used by Panamanian students are selected by educators, based upon a list of
titles recommended by the Ministry following the initial procedure of evaluation and approval (Decree
N 85 dated April 3, 1985, regulated by Resolution N 663 dated April 30, 1985). The Ministry's
Bureau of Curriculum and Educational Technology has gained valuable experience in the design of
technical instruments and the procedures needed to carry out the evaluation process.
6.    In recent years, several of the Ministry's staff have received training in textbook design,
production and evaluation. Ministry representatives attended courses on this subject organized by the
Executive Secretariat of the Andres Bello Agreement (SECAB) in Santafe de Bogota and Quito, under
the framework of the Educational Materials Program promoted by said institution. Several staff have
written, or are presently writing, textbooks.
Justification
7.    Studies carried out in various countries show important gains in the academic performance of
students who use textbooks, in relation to those who lack them. These studies have demonstrated that
the availability of textbooks has significant effects on students' motivation and on the efficiency and



73                                  ANNEX 6
Textbooks
organization of classwork; the textbook allows one teacher to work with several children at the same
time, favors independent study, helps make curriculum objectives explicit and tums them into learning
activities.
8.    Recent research by the Ministry of Education reveals that in Panama 67.90/o of textbooks are
purchased, meaning that only those families with a better economic status can buy them. In areas of
extreme poverty, where both children and teachers require greater assistance (most schools have multi-
grade classrooms in which a single teacher must teach various grades at the same time), schools lack
the libraries, textbooks, reading materials, and proper educational materials that parents are unable to
provide.
9.    The textbook provision plan, which will be aimed at the country's poorest schools, stems from
the theory that the availability of textbooks and other educational materials, together with other
educational efforts such as curriculum review, teacher training, improvement of schools and libraries,
and the establishment of a system to evaluate academic performance, may contribute towards
improving the quality of education.
Objectives
a)  To devise and implement a plan to supply textbooks, supplementary books and educational
materials aimed at the country's poorest schools, structured in such a way as to become self-
sustainable.
b)  To contribute towards improving the quality of general, basic education in the country's poorest
areas by supplying appropriate textbooks and educational materials that make the work of
teachers and students more efficient.
c)  To contribute towards encouraging students to read through the creation of school libraries that
serve both the school and the comrnunity.
d)  To strengthen the Ministry of Education's institutional and technical capacity with respect to
textbook evaluation, selection, distribution and use.
Products
Under this Project subcomponent, the following results will be obtained:
a)  Creation and training of a working team: in order to develop the textbook component, a
group will be formed in the Ministry of Education, comprised of specialists in each of the basic
disciplines; in reading and writing, children's and juvenile books, and textbooks.
b)  Evaluation instruments: under the framework of the Project, the Technical guide for
evaluating teaching materials, currently used to approve textbooks circulated on the domestic
market, will be restructured so that it may also be used in the process of evaluating and selecting
textbooks for the Project.



74                                  ANNEX 6
Textbooks
c)  Procedures: the necessary procedures will be designed to organize the tasks of bidding,
evaluating, selecting and supplying textbooks.
d)  Provision of textbooks: purchase and distribution of textbooks, recreational and reference
books, and a basic set of educational materials to _schools located in areas of extreme poverty.
e)  Production and distribution of activity charts to motivate teachers to use more dynamic,
participatory methodologies.
f)   Training of teachers in schools covered by the Project to make optimal use of the books
distributed by the textbook provision plan.
g)  Monitoring: development of a monitoring and evaluation system to provide ongoing information
on the circulation and use of the textbooks supplied to the educational centers covered by the
Project.
Monitoring
10.   The Project offers a substantial contribution towards improving the quality of education by
implementing an action plan aimed at supplying textbooks and educational materials through classroom
and school libraries; promoting and implementing innovative methodologies leading to optimal use of
materials; improving the skills of teachers, especially those who work with various grades
simultaneously; supplying activity charts created through the use of dynamic methodologies for
independent learning; and including parents and the community in the search for solutions to
educational problems.
11.   A plan to supply textbooks, recreational and reference books, and educational materials will be
implemented, aimed at all multigrade-class in the country and the unigrade primary schools and the
lower secondary schools located in classified as poor and extremely poor according to the poverty
index. Mathematics and reading-writing textbooks will be supplied to the first two grades, After third
grade, science and social studies texts will be included. Ratio will be one textbook for every student.
12.   The textbook provision plan will be based on the textbooks, books and educational materials
available on the market, following a strict evaluation process. Publishers should make changes to
textbooks as suggested by the evaluation committees, in order to better adjust the books to school
needs. Textbooks will be printed in four ink colors, may not be expendable, and must be accompanied
by teachers' manuals.
13.   The textbooks will become school property and form part of school libraries that will contain,
besides these textbooks, a selection of about 30 recreational and reference books. Twelve books by
Panamanian authors of children's and juvenile literature will be selected, and participating firms will be
invited to submit bids for the graphic design and printing of these books. These books, as well as
textbooks, will form part of the books supplied to school and classroom libraries.



75                                    ANNEX 6
Textbooks
14.   Children may borrow texts and books from the libraiy to take home. Both teachers and
parents will receive training to ensure the sustainability and best use of libraries.
15.   Along with the provision of texts, books and materials, teachers, supported by technical staff
from the Ministry of Education, will prepare "activity charts" under the framework of the Project,
aimed at enriching the overall teaching-learning process; the most original charts designed by teachers
will be published and circulated.
Implementation
16.   Books and educational materials to be supplied to schools, and purchased on the domestic and
international markets, will be evaluated to select those that best meet selection criteria and to determine
the changes that winning publishers should introduce in the special versions to be distributed under the
plan.
17.   Publishers of textbooks and educational matters will be invited to submit bids. With the advice
of an international consultant, the Ministry's textbook working group will design special tools to
evaluate books and will organize and train the committees responsible for evaluating bids from a
technical and instructional standpoint, under the direction of the Ministry's team of specialists. The
Ministry will strengthen its technical capacity to respond efficiently to the new needs of evaluating and
selecting books and materials.
18.   The development of activities related to this component will be the responsibility of the
coordinating team set up by the Ministry for this Project (numeral 4). This team will be comprised of
staff currently working in the Ministry who have had some experience in designing and evaluating
textbooks. It is also expected that local and international advisers will be hired to support the
Ministry's staff in those areas in which the Ministry either has no experience or requires specialized
assistance.
19.   Ad hoc committees will also be formed to evaluate, from  a technical and instructional
standpoint, the textbooks submitted by publishers during the bidding process; relevant procedures will
be designed for this purpose. Under the framework of the Project, both the permanent and committee
staffs will receive training in textbook evaluation.
20.    The Ministry's staff for this component will design a distribution system  to ensure that
textbooks and materials reach their final destination. Textbooks and educational materials will be sent
by winning publishers to the Provincial Offices of Education, boxed for subsequent distribution to the
schools. Publishers should include distribution costs in their bids. At each Provincial Office, a
coordinator will receive and supervise the quality and quantity of materials received and send them to
schools through the zone supervisor who in turn will deliver them to parents' associations in each
beneficiary township; these associations will be responsible for overseeing the delivery, proper use and
return of textbooks at the end of the school year. Parents are also expected to participate in caring for
classroom and school libraries, for which they will receive special training.



76                                  ANNEX 6
Textbooks
21.   Along with the distribution, the Ministry will publish and widely disseminate the list of materials
delivered to each school in order to keep communities duly informed.
22.   School teachers and principals will receive training in the use of textbooks, in encouraging
students to read, and in handling the school library. Two educators will be selected per school to
disseminate information, acting as technical and administrative coordinators, respectively.
23.   After the second year, it is expected that a percentage of the textbooks delivered to schools will
be lost or damaged. The community, teachers and the students themselves will be encouraged to take
care of the textbooks and students and parents will be invited to end school periods repairing the
damaged books.
24.   There will be an ongoing follow-up on all these actions through supervision visits, meetings
with participating teachers, and surveys of teachers, students and the community.



77                                 ANNEX 7
Student Assessment
STUDENT ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
Background
1.    Partial, limited efforts have been made in Panama to measure students' academic
performance. Between 1981 and 1985, as part of the Research Program to Evaluate Educational
System Achievements (an OAS Regional Program), third and sixth grade students in sample
schools in the provinces of Cocle and Panama were tested on their basic knowledge and on the
four basic subjects. The results were used to prepare teacher training programs and curriculum
adjustments in the province of Cocle.
2.    A Diagnostic Testing Program began in 1985, under which tests were administered in the
sixth grade and sixth year to a sample of students nationwide. In 1985 tests were administered on
the four basic subjects in the sixth grade, and in 1986 in the sixth year in Spanish, mathematics,
English, physics, chemistry and biology. These sample tests were repeated in 1987 but were
suspended in 1988 and 1989. A third round of testing began in 1992 in a sampling of 10 schools
in four provinces, with tests on the six subjects mentioned above and in the third and sixth years.
Finally, we should note the important precedent established by the work of the Center for the
Study of Educational Quality (CECE) which in recent years has been administering tests of
Spanish and mathematics among a sampling of 30 schools in Panama City. The purpose of these
tests is to bring about positive reactions from students, teachers and parents in order to define
ways to improve the quality of education.
Objectives
* To systematically and periodically assess the achievement of written and actual curriculum
objectives in strategic grades and years of primary and intermediate education, in order to
provide reliable, valid data that can be used in decision-making that will influence the
improvement of education in Panama and the assessment of the Basic Education Project's
impact.
* To sponsor the specific emergence of curricular application models and/or modernization of
curricular offerings, so that graduates of the system will be able to efficiently join the
country's economic system and contribute effectively towards achieving peace.
*  To evaluate the level of school readiness in terms of cognitive, emotional and psychomotor
skills of children entering first grade, in order to contribute towards assessing programs to
improve preschool education.
* To investigate the relationship between academic achievement and contextual variables of the
student, teacher, school, home and community.
* To evaluate socio-emotional factors of students in order to analyze the influence of such
factors on academic achievement.
. To achieve institutional, professional and material strengthening of this component's
executing unit: the National Educational Quality Assessment System (SINECE).



78                                   ANNEX 7
Student Assessment
Targets
3.    The results of achievement, school readiness and socio-emotional tests under this
subcomponent are quantified by: items produced, tests administered, reports produced, and
dissemination of results obtained. For research projects on contextual variables and research on
the impact of data, the results are quantified in questions for surveys, surveys administered and
report preparation.
4.    The quantities of each of these results in each year of the Basic Education Project's
implementation are presented in Annex N 3 as product indicators.
Description
5.    This subcomponent is comprised  of six projects: a) preparation, validation and
administration of achievement tests; b) research - efforts to modernize curricular performance; c)
preparation, validation and administration of the school readiness test for children entering first
grade; d) preparation, validation and administration of socio-emotional tests; e) research on the
relationship between contextual variables of the student, teacher and school and the student's
academic achievement and socio-emotional variables; f) research on the impact and use of data
produced by the administration of achievement, school readiness, and socio-emotional tests.
Annex N I contains a detailed timetable of tasks.
6.    Achievement tests. Achievement tests will be prepared, validated and administered for
the four basic subjects: Spanish, mathematics, natural sciences and social sciences. Starting in
1996, these tests will be administered to a random nationwide sampling of 10% of third and sixth
grade students in primary school and of the third and sixth years of secondary school. In even
years testing will be administered to third grade and third year students, and in odd years to sixth
grade and sixth year students.
7.    Research  - Efforts to modernize curricular implementation.   The results of
achievement tests and later of socio-emotional tests will be used to carry out information and
incentive efforts so that teachers, students and parents can seek ways to improve curricular
implementation. This research will be performed annually starting in 1996, with samples from 30
schools throughout all of the country's provinces.
8.    School readiness test. A test of school readiness in terms of cognitive, emotional and
psychomotor skills will be developed and validated for children entering the first grade of
elementary school. This test will be administered to a stratified random sampling of 5% of
children entering first grade, beginning in 1998. The data obtained will be used to assess current
preschool education programs and those financed by the Basic Education Project.
9.    Socio-emotional tests.  Beginning in 1999, tests will be developed and validated to
measure socio-emotional variables that complement the assessment of students' achievements in
elementary and secondary schools. These tests will be administered to the same sampling of
students who take the achievement tests.



79                                 ANNEX 7
Student Assessment
10.   Research on contextual variables. In order to better understand the factors that affect
students' academic achievement, correlating and ex post facto studies will be performed to relate
the contextual variables of the student, teacher, school and community with the outcome of
achievement and socio-emotional tests. This research will use surveys and interviews that will be
administered in parallel with achievement tests, beginning in 1996.
11.   Research on the impact of data. A system to assess Educational Quality provides data
that should be used to provide feedback on the educational system, thereby indicating any failures
that may be found, and to improve education. It is therefore important to research whether the
data produced is being properly disseminated and if it is having a positive effect on the
educational system. This work will be performed beginning in 1997 and each year thereafter.
12.   In addition to these projects, a training, consulting, internship and post-graduate study
program  has been established to support the projects described above.  Administrative
programming has been separated to ensure the proper, necessary support for the implementation
of each measurement, assessment and research activity under this subcomponent. Besides the
product indicators in Annex N 3, Annex N 2 details the process indicators to achieve better
monitoring of the subcomponent.
Implementation of the Subcomponent
13.   The Educational Quality Assessment System (SINECE) has been established to implement
this subcomponent, with the structure indicated in figure N 1. A detailed description of the
outline and functions of each element of this organizational chart may be found in the descriptive
supplementary document on this subcomponent (previous consultancy report of July 1995).



80                                          ANNEX 7
Student Assessment
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Planning Bureau
Administrative
Council
Consultative .Director11
Research Unit                                     Administrative &
Technical Unit
Administrator
Research
Council
Secretary       Data Expcrt          Data
Processors
r      ~~Projectsl
Achieve   School  Socia-   Re-        Research on        Research on
ment     Ressadi- ofal EEmfols         Contextual       Impact of Data
Test    Test                   Factors



81                                 ANNEX 8
PRE-PRMARY
EXPANSION OF NON-FORMAL PRE-PRIMARY EDUCATION
1.    Background. It is mandatory that pre-primary school services be provided, but it is not
mandatory that parents send their children to pre-primary school. It consists of nursery school
(Pre-jardines de Infancia) for four-year-olds, and kindergarten (Jardines de Infancia) for five-
year-olds. Jardines de Infancia are one-year schooling programs that emphasize readiness for
reading and writing. There are about 33,000 children enrolled in 894 Jardines de Infancia.
About two thirds of these are public institutions, and the remainder are private. The majority of
kindergarten students attend classes in primary school buildings. About 45 percent of five-year-
olds are enrolled in kindergarten, a figure significantly lower than other Latin American countries
of similar income level. In addition, the enrollment is concentrated in the richest CorregimienJos
and is almost non-existent in the poor rural areas. Thus, the current program serves mostly the
wealthy provinces with a curriculum developed for implementation by highly educated teachers.
2.    But, at the same time, Panama began, few years ago, developing a pilot program, the
Community and Family Center for Initial Education (CEFACEI), to provide community-based
pre-primary services for four- and five-year-olds. The CEFACEIs use infrastructure provided by
the community and a community educator (promotora), with or without formal training, to
provide educational services to 15-21 children. At this time, there are approximately 1,600
children in 88 centers located in rural and marginal urban areas. Up until now, it has operated
only in communities that can afford to pay a promotora. The CEFACEI program is an alternative
for rural and poor areas where it is difficult to retain highly qualified teachers. However, the
curriculum must be presented to poorly educated parents and community educators through clear
and simple messages conveyed through appealing educational materials. The existing pre-primary
curriculum is presented in excessively technical terms that require interpretation by highly trained
teachers. The majority of CEFACEI promotoras are therefore limited to child care activities.
3 .    This component aims to: i) expand coverage of non-formal pre-primary education among
the poor to increase national coverage from 45.5 percent to 75.0 percent for five year-olds and, ii)
improve the quality of non-formal pre-primary education. Coverage expansion will be based
primarily on the CEFACEI (Family and Community Education Center) model. At the same time,
a pilot program for rural areas of scattered population will also be developed.
4.    The CEFACEI program. The project aims to open 400 new CEFACEIs, and serve
approximately 20,000 pre-primary-age children over the life of the project. A pilot Mother-to-
Mother program will also be implemented, to benefit approximately 1.800 pre-primary-age
children in dispersed, rural communities. The quality of non-formal pre-primary education will be
improved through intensive training of MOE supervisors and promoloras, the distribution of
specially designed manuals for promotoras, children and parents, and the transmission of radio
programs to reinforce the program and encourage healthy child rearing practices. A national team
will be formed within the Directorate of Initial Education of MOE, to coordinate implementation
of the component at the national level.
5.    A pyramid strategy will be developed for training and supervision of the program, to
facilitate the full involvement of the national, regional, provincial and local levels. The national



82                                  ANNEX 8
PRE-PRIMARY
team will appoint pre-primary supervisors at the provincial level, who will be trained by national
and international technical assistants to design the manuals for trainers and promotoras (one
manual for trainers, one for promotoras, one for parents and one for each child). Provincial
supervisors will conduct a meeting in each community targeted by the project, to convey the
importance of pre-primary education to parents, and form a local CEFACEI Parents' Association.
6.    The Parents' Association will be responsible for: i) finding a location for the CEFACEI;
ii) collaborating in the opening and functioning of the CEFACEI; iii) selecting the promotora
according to a profile specified by the Directorate of Initial Education; and iv) paid the
Promotoras with the funds received from MOE every three months, the amount determined by
the number of children attending the CEFACEI. The Promotora will be paid US$90 per child per
year. Implemented gradually, the program will open 100 new CEFACEIs per year. The financial
resources to pay the Promotoras will be provided by the Government as counterpart funds to the
Bank loan.
7.    The Mother-to-Mother Program. In rural areas with scattered population mothers will
be encouraged to make team work, under the guidance of a Mother-Leader, and with the help of
educational material and radio programs to improve their child-rearing practices. Training of the
mother-leaders will be the responsibility of the supervisors and pre-primary education specialists
in each provincial office of MOE. Ten regional MOE supervisors will be trained for 10 days in
year I and ten days in year 2 of the project. They will train the 300 mother-leaders, chosen by the
participating mothers, for seven days each. Thirty mother-leaders will be trained each year. It is
estimated that each participating mother is raising an average of 2.0 children. Therefore, 2,400
children will benefit directly from the project.
8.    As in the case of the CEFACEIs, a pyramid strategy will be developed for training and
supervision of the program, to facilitate the full involvement of the national, regional, provincial
and local levels. Interested communities will then select a woman to be trained as a mother leader.
Each supervisor will work with a group of about 15 mother leaders throughout their two-year
tenure. He/she will give an initial six-day training workshop, focusing on the following topics: i)
the circumstances of childhood in rural areas and in particular, in each community where the
mother leaders reside; ii) group dynamics; and iii) analysis of the Mother-to-Mother Program,
including materials and implementation. The supervisor will supplement this initial training with
four more three-day workshops over the two-year period, and periodic monitoring of the progress
of each mother leader.
9.    Each mother leader will train a group of 10 mothers to instruct their pre-primary-age
children for two years, in a series of weekly or weekly meetings. Each mother will be instructed
in a series of thematic units and provided with a set of manuals for use with her children.
Implementation of the Mother-to-Mother Program will be gradual, concentrating efforts in only
two or two provinces: Veraguas and Chiriqui.
10.   Mother-leaders will be paid on a per mother-participant basis, that is, they will receive
US$ 32 per year for each participating mother they train in bi-weekly meetings over a ten-month
period. Funds to pay the mother-leaders will be transferred from the central office of MOE to the



83                                   ANNEX 8
PRE-PRIMARY
bank accounts of the regional MOE offices. MOE's supervisors will monitor the number of
mothers being taught, in order to ensure appropriate payment of the mother-leaders.  The
financial resources to pay the mother-leaders will be provided by the Government as counterpart
funding for the Bank loan
11.   The current curriculum will be revised to stress simple problem-solving, self-care and
school readiness skills. The emphasis will be on an open, flexible curriculum focused on the child
with parental participation. The strategy for producing a simple core curriculum will be to focus
on making each concept operational in training manuals. Two types of manuals will be produced:
manuals to train the promotoras in the use of the new curriculum, and manuals for the promotoras
to use in teaching. The manuals will be adapted to address rural mother-leaders and mothers
participating in the program, both of which have very little formal education. The adapted manual
will be a simplified, shorter version, relying heavily on drawings and visual messages. Thus, a
total of four manuals will be produced. A special working group will be formed within the
Directorate of Initial Education to produce the manuals with national and international technical
assistance. The project will finance the technical assistance to produce the manuals.
12.   Radio Programs. The current pre-primary programs, both, formal and CEFACEIs, fail to
involve parents, which is crucial as the dominant share of intelligence develops in early childhood.
Radio programs are an alternative to involve parents, enhance their ability to create learning
situations for their kids, and it does it in a simple and appealing way. Radio programs also
provide Promotoras and Mother-Leaders with effective reinforcement to the training and to the
written educational materials they will receive. Radio is accessible to everybody, and, what is
important within the project, to the poor. Radio is part of their daily life, especially in remote
areas. Radio is used in Panama to help families to communicate messages, for example, messages
from travelers from remote rural areas to relatives in the towns. Radio is not as expensive as
other media like TV. Another advantage is the fact that the country, as almost all countries, has
human resources acquainted with the production of messages for radio.
13.   A set of 40 radio programs of 5-7 minutes each will be produced by a team of local and
international consultants during the first and second year of the project. The content of the
programs will be mainly instructions to perform a set of activities geared toward selected
objectives of early childhood development.
14.   Local radio stations from the provinces are willing to broadcast the programs. It is
expected that some I I small radio stations will participate in the project. Each program will be
broadcast twice every week and, at the end of the 40'h week they will be broadcast again.
15.   Demand for pre-primary education will be promoted through the following: i) display
of posters detailing the CEFACEI and Mother-to-Mother Programs in public places such as town
halls, health centers, churches, schools, supermarkets, etc.; ii) distribution of pamphlets about the
different programs, targeted to parents and community-based organizations; iii) distribution of
brochures about the different programs to governors, mayors, municipal staff, school directors,
community directors, etc.



Analysis of technological alternatives to support a learning process
Issue: The kindergarten curriculum currently handled by preschool educators in the formal pre-primary classrooms vill not be easily handled by community educators.
Objective: Select the best option of a technology or combination of technologies to help community educators to develop the curriculum and to get parental
involvement in the process.
Workshops             Written educational  Radio                      T.V.
materials
Type of learning        Changes on behaviors    Reaches community     Useful tool if      The radio messages can      The most complete in terms
process involved       and attitudes           educators but not      reinforced with      capture the attention of the    of trying to impact on
parents. Needs        workshops or other   targeted population used to   attitudes and behaviors.
reinforcement         means. Along might  rely on radio to get messages
not be sufficient.  with the same objectives of
changing attitudes and
behavior.
Type of population     Adult; low education;    Adult working women   Same as above.       Good alternative to reach  T.V sets are not available in  00
located in rural areas.   cannot gather                            scattered population.      many areas. The
frequently for training                                               educational channel only
purposes.                                                              reaches the capital. Strong
competence from
commercial programs.
Local human resources                          Available              Available           Training needed.            Training needed.
Local physical                                 Available              Available            Available. There are plenty  Lack of T.V. sets and/or
resources                                                                                 of local radio stations willing  electricity in some areas.
to air these type of programs  Low coverage of the
at reasonable prices or for  educational channel.
free.                      Expensive fees for time in
commercial channels.
Strong competence from   e
commercial programs.
X



PANAMA - Basic Education Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
(Balboa Million)            (USS Million)    Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total  Exchange   Costs
A. Improvement in Basic Ed. Quality & Access
In-Service Teacher Training                                     2.15      0.12     2.27     2.15     0.12      2.27         5        4
Educational Materials                                            1.14     3.90     5.04     1.14     3.90      5.04       77        10
Education Assessment System                                      1.18     0.89     2.07     1.18     0.89     2.07        43        4
Scholarships for Poor Students                                  11.67        -    11.67    11.67        -    11.67          -      23
Primary School Rehabilitation                                   17.49     0.85    18.34    17.49     0.85    18.34         5       35
Subtotal Improvement in Basic Ed. Quality & Access                33.63     5.75    39.38    33.63      5.75    39.38        15       76
B. Expansion of Non-Formal Preschool Ed.                                                                                                          LI
Expanding CEFACEI Program                                       4.07      0.76     4.83     4.07     0.76     4.83         16        9
Mother-to-mother Pilot Proj.                                    0.24      0.15     0.39     0.24     0.15     0.39        38         1
Subtotal Expansion of Non-Formal Preschool Ed.                     4.31     0.91     5.22     4.31      0.91     5.22        17       10
C. Institutional Strengthening
Management Information System                                    1.89     2.79     4.68     1.89     2.79     4.68        60        9
Dev. Planning & Sprvsn Capacity                                 0.21      0.10     0.31     0.21     0.10     0.31        32         1
Policy Making Studies                                              -      0.58     0.58        -     0.58     0.58       100         I
Project Coordination & Managemcnt                                1.18     0.35     1.53     1.18     0.35      1.53       23        3
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                               3.28     3.81     7.09     3.28      3.81     7.09        54       14
41.22    10.47    51.69    41.22    10.47    51.69        20       100
Physical Contingencies                                          2.08     0.52      2.60     2.08     0.52     2.60        20        5
Price Contingencies                                             3.08      0.64     3.71     3.08     0.64     3.71        17        7           i
ITotal PROJECT COSTS                                              46.37    11.63    58.00    46.37    11.63    58.00        20       1



PANAMA - Basic Education Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
A. Improvement in Basic Ed. Quality & Access
In-Service Teacher Training                                   0.31     0.67     0.81     0.68     0.05     2.52
Educational Materials                                         0.05     1.86     2.15     0.05     1.55     5.67
Education Assessment System                                   0.71     0.48     0.41     0.38     0.32     2.29
Scholarships for Poor Students                                0.98     2.02     3.11     3.19     3.27    12.58
Primary School Rehabilitation                                 2.91     5.40     5.54     4.98     2.51    21.34
Subtotal Improvement in Basic Ed. Quality & Access              4.97    10.44    12.03     9.27     7.70    44.41
B. Expansion of Non-Formal Preschool Ed.
Expanding CEFACEI Program                                     0.67     0.67     0.96     1.28     1.69     5.26
Mother-to-mother Pilot Proj.                                  0.09     0.10     0.05     0.10     0.08     0.43
Subtotal Expansion of Non-Formal Preschool Ed.                   0.76    0.78     1.01     1.37      1.77    5.69
C. Institutional Strengthening                                                                                                                oo
Management Information System                                 0.86     1.41     1.25     1.09     0.60     5.21
Dev. Planning & Sprvsn Capacity                               0.09     0.07     0.08     0.07     0.04     0.34
Policy Making Studies                                         0.19     0.16     0.28        -        -    0.63
Project Coordination & Management                             0.36     0.32     0.33     0.34     0.35     1.71
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                             1.49     1.97     1.94     1.50    0.99     7.90
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              7.23    13.19    14.98    12.15    10.46    58.00
0
W.
=-X



PANAMA - Basic Education Project
Components by Financiers
(USS Million)
The Government                                 Local
1BRD              of Panama           Total              For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %         Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
A. Improvement in Basic Ed. Quality & Access
In-Service Teacher Training                                     2.52    100.0         -              2.52      4.4    0.13       2.40
Educational Materials                                           5.67    100.0      0.00        -     5.67      9.8    4.39       1.28
Education Assessment System                                     2.26      98.8     0.03      1.2     2.29      4.0     0.97      1.32
Scholarships for Poor Students                                               -    12.58    100.0    12.58     21.7        -    12.58
Primary School Rehabilitation                                   16.71    78.3      4.63     21.7    21.34     36.8    0.93    20.41
Subtotal Improvement in Basic Ed. Quality & Access                27.17     61.2    17.24     40.0    44.41      76.6    6.42    37.99          -        oo
B. Expansion of Non-Formal Preschool Ed.
Expanding CEFACEI Program                                        1.12    21.3      4.14     78.7     5.26      9.1     0.84     4.42
Mother-to-mother Pilot Proj.                                    0.29     66.5      0.14     33.5     0.43      0.7    0.17      0.26
Subtotal Expansion of Non-Formal Preschool Ed.                     1.41     24.8     4.28     75.2      5.69      9.8    1.01      4.68
C. Institutional Strengthening
Management Information System                                   3.80     72.9      1.41     27.1     5.21      9.0     3.07     2.15
Dev. Planning & Sprvsn Capacity                                 0.34    100.0         -              0.34      0.6    0.11      0.23
Policy Making Studies                                           0.63    100.0         -        -     0.63       1.1    0.63        -
Project Coordination & Management                                1.65    96.4      0.06      3.6     1.71      2.9    0.39       1.32
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                               6.42     81.3     1.48     18.7     7.90      13.6    4.20      3.70
Total Disbursement                                                35.00     60.0    23.00     40.0    58.00    100.0    11.63    46.37
-
C
ci



PANAMA - Basic Education Project
Expcnditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Totals Incl. Contingencies 1
1996     1997      1998     1999      2000     Total
L Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                     2.50      4.81     4.94      4.36      2.12     18.50
B. Vchicles                                        0.03         -        -         -         -     0.10
C. Equipment                                       1.07      0.99     0.82      0.50      0.00     3.20
D. Furniture                                       0.19      0.19     0.20      0.21      0.21     1.00
E. Training                                        0.26      0.87     1.03      0.89      0.21     3.40
F. Educational Materials
1. Textbooks and Teachers' Guides                  -      1.52         -        -      1.47      3.20                                               oo
2. Library books                                    -        -       2.2         -        -      2.20
3. Activity Cards                                   -     0.29         -        -         -      0.30
4. Pre-school manuals                            0.32     0.17      0.18      0.24     0.25      1.80
5. Assessment Sys. Materials                    0.12      0.18     0.12      0.08      0.08     0.50
Subtotal Educational Materials                     0.44      2.15     2.41      0.32      1.81     7.50
H. Consultants, Studies & TA
1. Consultants & TA                              1.05     0.75      0.67     0.70      0.67      3.90
2. Studies                                       0.41     0.39      0.52     0.24         -      1.50
Subtotal Consultants, Studies & TA                 1.46      1.14      1.18     0.95      0.67     5.60
Total Investment Costs                               5.95     10.17     10.59     7.22      5.03     38.10
I Recurrent Costs
0.82  1.12  1.52  4.00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1
A. Fees for Promotoras                             0.28      0.54     0.82      1.12      1.52     4.00
B. Scholarships                                    0.98      2.02     3.11      3.19      3.27    12.60
C. Supplies&maintenance                            0.02      0.45     0.46      0.62      0.63     2.10
Total Recurrent Costs                                 1.28     3.02      4.40     4.93      5.43     18.70
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  7.23     13.19     14.98    12.15     10.46     58.00
I Due to rounding, annual amounts may not add up to totals.
'.0



89                                       ANNEX 9
Project Costs and Financing
PANAMA- Basic Education Project
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Loan
Category                    Amount of the       % of Expenditures
Loan allocated      to be financed
(Expressed in
USS)
(1) Works under Part A.5 of   13,500,000        78%
the Project
(2)   Goods   (other   than     4,300,000       100% of foreign expenditures and 95%
Educational Materials)                          of local expenditures.
(3) Educational Materials       5,400,000       100% of foreign expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures.
(4) Printing Services            1,100,000      100% of local expenditures.
(5) Consultants' Services and   8,400,000       100%
Training
(6) Unallocated                 2,300,000
TOTAL
35,000,000
PANAMA - Basic Education Project
Estimated Disbursements Timetable
Fiscal Year        1997         1998         1999         2000         2001         2002
Annual             5.5          6.8          9.3          8.0           3.1          2.3
Cumulative         5.5          12.3        21.6          29.6         32.7         35.0



FORECAST SECTOR BUDGET
Table 1: Expected Financial Impact of the Project as Percent of Forecast MOE's Recurrent Cost Budget   (in USS million)
Real GDP"           Education           MOE's Recurrent Cost Budget3'        The Project        Financial Impact
Year                                  Sector              (excluding investments &            Generated         of the Project on
Budget2'              education security fund)           Recurrent         MOE's Recurrent
No Project        with Project         Costs4'            Cost Budget
(1)                 (2)                (3)                 (4)               (5)                   (6)
(4)=(3)+(5)                             (6)=(5)/(3)
1994             6594.1               356.1              214.1
1995             6824.9               368.5              214.6
1996             7029.6               379.6              228.3               228.6               0.3                 0.1%
1997             7275.7               392.9              236.3               237.3               1.0                 0.4%
1998             7530.3               406.6              244.6               245.8               1.3                 0.5%
1999             7793.9               420.9              253.1               254.9               1.7                 0.7%
2000             8066.7               435.6              262.0               264.1               2.2                 0.8%
2001             8349.0               450.8              271.1               273.3               2.2                 0.8%        
2002             8641.2               466.6              280.6               282.8               2.2                 0.8%
2003             8943.7               483.0              290.5               292.6               2.2                 0.7%
2004             9256.7               499.9              300.6               302.8               2.2                 0.7%
2005             9580.7               517.4              311.1               313.3               2.2                 0.7%
2006             9916.0               535.5              322.0               324.2               2.2                 0.7%           e
2007             10263.1              554.2              333.3               335.4               2.2                 0.6%           -'
2008             10622.3              573.6              345.0               347.1               2.2                 0.6%
2009             10994.0              593.7              357.0               359.2               2.2                 0.6%
2010             11378.8              614.5              369.5               371.7               2.2                 0.6%
Notes:
1/ The real GDP (in 1992 USS) growvth rates was 4.0 in 1994, 3.5 in 1995, and 3.0 in 1996, and would increase to 3.5 from 1997 through 2010
based on the CAS, December 1994.
2/ Assumes the share of the education budget would remain at about 5.4 percent of GDP over the 1996-2010.                                 C
3/ Assumes the share of MOE's (preprimary, primary & sccondary) recurrcnt cost budget would remain at about 60 percent of the total education sector budget.  
4/ Including only fees for promoters and rural preschool children, and operation and maintenance of infrastructure, equipment, furniture and office supplies.  E Z
Scholarships for poor students will be covered by the education security fund.
.~ o



PANAMA - Basic Education Project
Ministry of Education Budget (pre-primary, primary and secondary) by Functional Catregory
1991                 1992                  1993                1994                1995
Category                US$ m   % recurrent  US$ m   % recurrent US$ m  % recurrent US$ m   % recurrent USS m  % recurrent
Personnel                164.3     90.3%       189.2      90.5%     190.6    89.3%       193.8    90.5%      201.7    94.0%
Non-personnel             7.7       4.2%        8.5       4.1%       8.7      4.1%       7.5       3.5%       4.7      2.2%
Materials & Supplies      2.9       1.6%        1.5       0.7%       5.2       2.4%       4.6      2.1%       0.8      0.4%
Minor Equipment           0.2       0.1%        0.2       0.1%       0.6      0.3%       0.2       0.1%       0.1      0.0%
Transfers & subsidies     6.8       3.7%        6.8       3.3%       7.0       3.3%       7.5      3.5%       7.2      3.3%
Other Costs               0.2       0.1%        2.8       1.4%       1.3       0.6%       0.6      0.3%       0.2      0.1%
Total Recurrcnt Costs    182.0     100.0%      209.0     100.0%     213.3    100.0%      214.1    100.0%     214.6    100.0%
Total Capital Costs      15.1                   17.5                 36.1                22.9                13.9
Educational Security'    11.4                   12.0                 15.5                16.3                20.7                        *1
Grand Total              208.5                 238.5                264.9               253.3                249.2     :_
1/ The resources of the Educational Security (Seguro Educativo) are collected by the Government through income tax. 
This resource was utilized as scholarships for awarding good students and needy poor students.
0
- 2



92                                 ANNEX 11
Project Administration Unit
ORGANIZATION FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization of Project Administration Unit
1.    A Project Administration Unit (PAL) will be established for technical, administrative and
financial management during project preparation and implementation. The PAU will be located within
the structure of the Ministry of Education (MfNEDUC), directly subordinate to the Central Office.
2.    The Project Coordinator will report to the Central Office and coordinate the project's
preparation and implementation within MfNEDUC and between MINEDUC and other government
and non-government institutions and with the World Bank, and will have overall responsibility for
submitting and implementing the project according to agreed, programmed schedules.
3.    A Unit Coordinator, with executive functions, will be appointed to coordinate project actions
with the Ministry's corresponding agencies. He will be supported by a technical coordinator and an
administrative-financial coordinator.  According to the project's needs, high-level professional
consultants will join the project. They will be responsible for supporting the Ministry's groups or units
with respect to each of the project's subcomponents and will liaise with the corresponding departments.
4.    The Technical Coordinator vill be responsible for technical management of the project, while
the Administrative-Financial Coordinator's duties will be related to project finances and administration.
Three additional experts will support, respectively: (i) procurement, bidding and contract processes; (ii)
disbursement and accounting matters; and (iii) consolidation of technical data on subcomponents as
well as assistance with Information Systems.
5'.    For specialized matters, the PAU may rely on advisers-consultants who will support criteria of
complementarity and relations among components.
6.    The PAU will receive strategic guidelines from the Ministry's Central Office (Minister, General
Secretariat, and required agencies).
The PAU's Functions
7.    The functions of the Project Administration Unit (PAU) will be to:
a)  Carry out the project execution (implementation) process, in accordance with decisions and
approvals from the Central Office and with the project's general timetable.
b)  Establish and start up processes and procedures for project implementation in each of its
components and subcomponents, according to their respective objectives and schedules.
c)  Provide and coordinate technical assistance to execute activities in each component.



93                                ANNEX 11
Project Administration Unit
d)  Coordinate programming with the responsibilities and resources of implementing units (within
and outside the Ministry of Education), and follow up and supervise the implementation of
actions in each component; request periodic status reports on project activities from units of the
Ministry of Education.
e)  Develop and start up an administrative and financial system for the project, as well as
administrative and accounting procedures and controls to carry out the investment plan.
f) Provide financial, administrative and legal assistance and corresponding controls for each
component and subcomponent.
g)  Maintain an accounting system for project implementation to record accounts and expenditures.
h)  Prepare terms of reference for specialized consultants, submit them for approval and later
supervise their work.
i)  Cany out the process of procuring the goods and services required by the project.
j)  Support the implementation of the Evaluation subcomponent, according to the guidelines and
strategy defined by the Ministry of Education, as well as to complement other related actions.
k)  Support the implementation of the school textbook subcomponent, in coordination with the
National Bureau of Curriculum and Educational Technology and with the units appointed or
established for this purpose.
I)  Support the implementation of the Management Information System  subcomponent, in
coordination with the National Bureau of Finance and Institutional Development and with the
units appointed or established for this purpose.
m) Support the implementation of the Institutional Strengthening subcomponent, in coordination
with the National Bureau of Finance and Institutional Development and with the units appointed
or established for this purpose.
n)  Support the implementation of the Early Education subcomponent, in coordination with the
Bureau of Early Education and other organizations involved in the implementation process,
according to procedures that may be promoted.
o) Support the implementation of the Infrastructure component to be implemented through the FES,
upholding the Ministry of Education's requirements and following up on the various contracts and
works.
p)  Act as a counterpart to World Bank rnissions with respect to the coordination, programming and
implementation of project activities.



94                                 ANNEX 11
Project Administration Uiiit
q) Report periodically to the Central Office on project-related issues and on physical and financial
progress reports, and prepare proposals for corrective measures in the case of variations.
r)  Establish a schedule by component and subcomponent with a control system to allow the
generation of data required for periodic reports and annual evaluations.
s)  Prepare terms of reference, organize, coordinate and carry out the mid-tern review of project
implementation.
t)  With the support and participation of implementing units within the Ministry of Education,
prepare the reports to be presented to the World Bank.
Duties of PAU Staff
8.    The General Project Coordinator (Unit Chief) will be responsible for managing project
implementation and keeping a general eye on the coordination of actions. The General Project
Coordinator will submit proposals and recommendations regarding implementation to the Ministry's
Central Office, and propose corrective measures as required. He will maintain close communications
with the Ministry's bureaus in charge of implementing activities under the various project components
as well as with other related agencies (TFARHU, FES, MIPPE and the World Bank),
9.    He will promote institutional development actions to enable or streamline the performance of
project actions according to schedule.
10.   He will inform high-level authorities of the Ministry of Education about progress and outcomes
of the monitoring process.
11.   The Technical Coordinator will be responsible for technical management of the project and
for comprehensiveness and complementarity among project subcomponents. Besides coordinating
actions, deadlines and results, he will monitor the implementation of subcomponent actions according
to schedule and advise subcomponent officers and consultants on technical and educational issues.
Likewise, he will be responsible for supporting data processing and management of systems to control
and monitor project implementation.
12.   The Administrative and Financial Coordinator will be in charge of the project's
administrative management and financial control, and of coordinating with those responsible for
implementing components with respect to accounting issues, disbursements and audit reports. He will
prepare the corresponding financial reports and supervise the process of procurement, bidding and
contracts.
13.   The Disbursement and Accounting Officer will work under the administrative and financial
coordinator, acting as the focal point for the processing of project disbursement applications by the
World Bank. He will coordinate closely with the procurement officer and maintain an administrative
database.



95                                   ANNEX 11
Project Administration Unit
14.   The Procurement Officer, working under the administrative and financial coordinator, will be
in charge of the processes of project procurement, bidding and contracts. He will prepare standard
documents and coordinate with technical staff to prepare special conditions for procurement or hiring
of consultants as well as technical specifications.
15.   The officer in charge of consolidating technical data, working under the Technical
Coordinator, will be responsible for administering the PAUs information system and for consolidating
technical data on subcomponents.
16.   Subcomponent Units will work in those administrative sections of the Ministry of Education
directly involved in the project. They will be responsible for the implementation and monitoring of
their respective subcomponents and work in coordination with the PAU's technical coordinator who
will be supported by consultants in each subcomponent to establish targets, achievements and
adjustments in project implementation.
17.   Consultants/advisors in various subjects will provide temporary support to the responsible
units in the Ministry of Education and liaise with the PAU through the Technical Coordinator who will
oversee the work of the consultants to ensure that they fulfill their established terms of reference and
contracts.
18.   A matrix-type organization is proposed for project execution, so as to utilize the Ministry of
Education's formal structures to carry out project actions in accordance with respective specializations.
This calls for a specialized, streamlined PAU to facilitate project implementation, combining teams of
specially hired experts as well as staff of the Ministry of Education's organizational units. The Ministry
of Education's institutional strengthening process will be decisive in making the best use of experiences
from project implementation.
19.   The Operational Manual of the PAU will include, among other things: (i) the structure
and functions of the PAU; (ii) the definitive operational arrangements for financial administration
of the pre-primary expansion subcomponent, including a line budget for fees for the promotoras;
(iii) final standard bidding documents for civil works, textbooks, classroom libraries and MIS; (iv)
the first annual plan for civil works, including the civil works contract between MOE and FES;
and (v) draft terms of reference for the policy studies.



96                                             ANNEX 12
Project Impact and
Output Indicators
PROJECT OUTPUT INDICATORS
INDICATOR                        1996        1997       1998      1999      2000      Total
IMPROVEMENT IN BASIC EDUCATION
QUALITY AND EQUITY
Training Sub-Component
Training of CEFACEI Promotoras                                 100        100       100       100         400
Mother Leaders (Mother-to-                                   50         50       100       100         300
Mother Program)
Training of Trainers in Multigrade                                                                        155
Methodology
Training of Multigrade Teachers                                                                         3,800
Training of Unigrade teachers at primary and                                                3,000       3,000
secondary level (use of libraries and textbooks)
Educational Materials
Distribution of pre-primary packages to the
CEFACEIS (toys, manuals, textbooks, leaflets):
Number of centers (new)                                     100         100      100        100        400
Number of centers (cumulative)                              100        200       300        400        400
Number of promotoras (new)                                  100         100      100        100        400
Number of promotoras (cumulative)                           100        200       300        400        400
Number of children                                        2,000       4,000    6,000      8,000     20,000
Distribution of pre-primary packages to the district
supervisor for the mother-to-mother program
(manuals and leaflets):
Number of mother leaders                                     30         30        30         30        120
Number of mother participants                               300        300       300        300      1,200
Number of children benefitted                               600        600       600        600      2,400
Broadcasting of radio programs on local radio
stations:
Number of programs produced                                  40                                         20
Number of programs broadcasted per year                      80         80        80          8         40
0
Number of local radio stations                               11         11        11         11         11
Distribution of classroom activity cards for                                                             3734
multigrade classrooms:
Number of multigrade classrooms                           3,800                           3,800



97                                            ANNEX 12
Project Impact and
Ou put Indicators
INDICATOR                       1996       1997        1998      1999     2000      Total
Distribution of classroom libraries for primary
classrooms
Number of classrooms                                    6,100
Distribution of primary school textbooks:
Number of students benefited                            146,804   146,804  146,804   146,804    587,216
Number of textbooks                                     645,936                       645,936   1,291,872
Number of teacher guides                                  25,361                       25,361     50,722
Distribution of secondary school textbooks:
Number of students benefited                           37,105      37,105    37,105    37,105    148,420
Number of textbooks                                    148,422                        148,422    296,844
Number of teacher guides                               21,105                          21,105     42,210
Educational Assessment Sub-Component
Achievement Tests
Administration of pilot tests to sample          3Q
Administration of tests                          4Q        4Q          4Q        4Q       4Q
Issuance of reports                                         4Q          IQ       IQ       lQx
School Readiness Tests
Administration of pilot tests to sample                     3Q
Administration of tests                                                 2Q       2Q        2Q
Issuance of reports                                                     3Q       3Q       3Q
Affective Development Tests
Administration of pilot tests to sample                                          2Q
Administration of tests                                                          4Q       4Q
Issuance of reports                                                                        I Q
Scholarships for poor students Sub-Component
Secondary students benefited                   800       1,600      2,400    2,400    2,400        9,600
Primary students benefited                   2,667      5,334       8,001    8,001    8,001       32,004
Primary schools rehabilitation
Classroom Upgrading                            264        473        473       379       115       1,704
Classroom Substitution                          35         87         87        87       52         348
EXPANSION OF NON-FORMAL PRESCHOOL
CEFACEI children                                        2,000       4,000    6,000    8,000       20,000
Pilot Mother-to-Mother children benefited                 450        450       450      450        1,800
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
First two studies completed                                            3Q
Third and fourth studies completed                                               3Q
Discussions with the Bank and seminars                                                    3Q
completed
MIS starts operations                                                   2Q_                   I



PROJECT IMPACT INDICATORS
Indicator                 Expected chanige               Instruments
Improvement in the        By 10-15% from Base Line 1996.   Achievement tests       Levels of achievement in four subjects will be measured (Spanish,
Quality     students Achievement                                                               mathematics, social sciences, natumal sciences). Students achievement
Scores.                                                                            will be measured every other year, through tests to third and sixth grade
students in primary and school readiness (cognitive, emotional and
psychomotor skills) for children entering the first grade.
Increase in time spent on    Substantial differences before and   Classroom        Six schools will be selected for observation at three different times
learning activities..     afler delivery of project inputs.  observation.          during the school year to observe the actual time spent on learning.
Observations will be conducted every year during a four years period.
Changes in the type of    Significant number of mothers     Interviews.            Mother-to-Mother sessions will be observed and 10 percent of
interactions betveen      reporting changes in their                               participant mothers will be interviewed.
mothers and children, as    interactions with childreni.
perceivcd by the mothlers.
A decrease in the gap     Decrease in drop out rate from    Statistics.            Drop out and repetition rates by Correginiento will be processed every
Equity      betwvecn poorest and      current 6.24 in targeted                                 year. As a condition of effectiveness, data from 1994 will be produced ilo
richest Corregimientos in   Corregimientos to current national                     order to establish the base line and proposed targets
repetition rates and drop    average of 4.6
out rates.                Decrease in repetition by 30%
from Base Line 1966.
A decrease in the gap     Decrease by 30% from Base Line    Statistics.            Drop out and repetition rates by Gender by Corregimiento will be
between females and       1964.                                                    processed every year. Data from 1994 wvill be produced in order to
males in repetition rates                                                          establish the base line.
and drop out rates in
targeted Corregitrmientos..
Efficiency   A decrease in the average   From 12.87 to 12 for the country    Statistics
number of years required
to complete the Basic
Education (1-9).                                                                                       O_O
Covcrage   Increase at pre-priniary   From 45 % to 75% national         Statistics                                                                                   e
coverage                                                                                                                         iC
to _6___



99                                 ANNEX 13
Economic Bcnefits
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Component: Improving Quality and Equity in Basic Education
1.    Project Benefits. This component will provide high quality basic education (grades I to
9) for 183,909 students (41% of the age-group) from poor families. The cost of this component is
US$30.8 million (including contingent costs), which account for 53% of the total project costs.
Improving the quality of basic education will generate three kinds of benefits: the increased
productivity (increased earnings)of the beneficiaries; the positive externalities resulting from their
improved social achievements (e.g., reduced crime rates and better informed citizens); and the
distributional gains (future poverty reduction) resulting from targeting the beneficiaries in poor
localities (corregimientos).
2.    This ex-ante economic evaluation has considered only the likely productivity gains that
will be induced by improving the quality of basic education. The reported Internal Rates of Return
(IR(R), therefore, are conservative estimates of the project worth. The approach here used is based
on the premise that in market economies differences in eaming results from differences in
productivity. In the case of this project productivity will result from improving the quality of
primary and junior high education. On that premise the project's earning differentiais due to better
education of the individuals who will benefit from this component represents the economic
benefits of increased productivity.
3.    Project Costs. The opportunity cost of a project that improves education quality is given
by the value of the additional inputs. They include: in-service teacher training; educational
materials; primary school rehabilitation; and education assessment systems.
4.    Since improving of education quality reduce the dropout and failure rates, the fiscal cost
of delivering schooling is reduced. These savings of education resources were discounted from
the above opportunity cost (or altematively were added to the project benefits).
5.    Project Worth. The IRR for education investment is the discount rate at which the net
present value of benefits (increases in earnings as a proxy for productivity) minus costs equal
zero. That is, if the additional eamings induced by the project would allow students through their
working life to repay the cost of their improved education plus interests, the implicit rate of
interest is called the IZRR. If the resulting IRR was higher than the social productivity of capital in
Panama, the project is economically worth way.
6.    The social IRR of the component 'Improvement of the Quality of Basic Education', varies
between 15% and 24%, depending on the scenario. The scenarios refer to alternative impacts of
the project on educational achievements, and of educational achievements on future eamings.
Given the above estimates of the social IRR, this project component is economically feasible and
its undertaking definitely justifiable (see Table 2).



100                                ANNEX 13
Economic Bencfits
Savings from the Expansion of the Non-Formal Preschool Component
7.    Savings from the preschool component will come as a result of expanding CEFACEI
preschool program (community-administered pre-primary centers) and carrying out a mother-to-
mother pilot program in rural areas (participating mothers will be trained to teach their preschool-
age children).
8.    In Panama the enrollment ratio of pre-primary education is only 29 percent, significant
lower than that in countries such as Costa Rica and Chile. And the majority of enrollment are
concentrated in urban areas thereby making it difficult for most children from rural areas to gain
access into pre-primary education. In order to make it equitable and provide children with the
early sensory stimulation to develop their intelligence and prepare for reading, writing and
learning, this component aims to increase the coverage of pre-primary education and develop
readiness skills for primary education. The low costs of community-oriented initial education
programs (CEFACEI and Mother-to-Mother) would allow the benefits to reach children from
low-income families.
9.    The annual average cost per formal preschool child is US$288 based on the Ministry of
Education's 1993 data. With the CEFACEI program, the cost per child is only US$124. The
project would provide preschool education for 42,340 preschool-age children during the life of
the project. The savings from CEFACEI program is about US$7 million (Tables 3, 4, 5). With
the mother-to-mother program, the cost per child is US$243. This program would benefit 3,000
children in rural areas, thus the savings from this program is US$ 13 5,000. Combining the savings
from CEFACEI and Mother-to-Mother programs, the total savings for the component will be
US$7.1 million. This is not only significant savings on public expenditures, but also an efficient
way of improving equity in preschool education and alleviating poverty, especially in the rural
areas.
Savings from the Lower Secondary Scholarship Program
10.   Lower secondary scholarship program and unit costs: This program would sponsor a
total of 9600 lower-secondary students from rural areas with low density population. In these
areas there are no secondary schools at all because of the scarcity of secondary school-age
population. The students from poor family are excluded from secondary school system because
their parents cannot afford transportation and other necessary costs for them to travel certain
distance to go to nearby lower secondary schools. The rationale of the program is to provide
financial support to students from the rural low-income families, thus allowing them to attend
lower secondary schools. The amount per scholarship is US$3 15 per year. The total costs for
secondary scholarship program would be about US$3 million over the life of the project (see table
6).
11.   The other alternative to provide opportunities for rural secondary school-age children to
have access to the system is building new schools. However, we have to keep in mind that in
rural areas, each town or village has fewer secondary school-age children than in urban areas.



101                                 ANNEX 13
Economic Benefits
This means that the class size of rural areas is much more smaller than in urban areas. Assumning
that each class has 15 students, we would need to build 640 classroom and hire 640 more
teachers for approximately 9600 students. The unit cost for construction and equipment per
classroom is estimated at US$25,000 and the average teacher's annual salary is US$5,404. The
total cost for this option would be on the order of US$19.5 million. Obviously, the cost for
building schools is much higher than the cost for scholarships. Of course, the classrooms can be
used for many years. Realistically, however, in these rural areas, the utilization of these buildings
is extremely low and the cost to run and maintain them would be just as high as the other
buildings. Therefore, this is not an efficient way to expand rural lower secondary enrollment.
12.   Based on the comparison of the two options, it is clear that the scholarship program has
more advantages than the other. The savings from scholarship program would be about US$16
million.
Table 1: Component - Improving Quality and Equity in Basic Education
Costs and Beneficiary (USS)
Number of
Component                      Poor Students'          Cost
Year              Basic Ed. Quality and Equity           Benefit from             per
Capital Costs   Recurrent Costs   Total          the Project         Beneficiary
1996      3,970,000        10,000         3,980,000        177,050                22
1997      8,240,000        170,000        8,410,000        177,050                48
1998      8,730,000        180,000        8,910,000        177,050                50
1999      5,910,000        180,000        6,090,000        177,050                34
2000      3,240,000        190,000        3,430,000        177,050                19
2001                       190,000         190,000         177,050                 1
2002                       190,000         190,000         177,050                 I
2003                       190,000         190,000         177,050                 1
2004                       190,000         190,000         177,050                 1
2005                       190,000         190,000         177,050                 1
1/ This component will target the poorest 190 Corregimientos (37 percent of all the corregimientos in the country),
wvhich will include 41 percent of the enrollment in grades I to 9.



Table I: Economic Analysis of the Project Component: Improving Quality of Basic Education
Projected Flows of Costs and Benefits from Quality Education Improvement
Basic Education - For One Student
Full EmpIymient Income per Yar (Balboas)    Unomploy- Income Not of Unempl.  Income Differential  Project  Education   costs &
Y"r      Age    Schooling  Experience Expeile c  Low Income        Middle Income    ment      Low,    MidhI Balboa  I  USS         Costs   Resource   Benefits
I  I  I   I   11   PrimaryEd. ISecond. Ed. PrimaryEd. iSecond Ed.   %  Income    Income  I            USS    Savings  ofthsProj
1996        4
1997        5         0
1998        6         1                                                                                                             (22)      15        (6)
1999        7         2                                                                                                             (46)      15       (30)
2000        8         3                                                                                                             (48)      15       (33)
2001        9         4                                                                                                             (33)      15       (18)
2002       10         5                                                                                                             (24)      15        (9)
2003       11         6                                                                                                               -1      15        14
2004       12         7        1                936               1046            98.00%        14        8        -6      (6)       -1       21       20
2005       13         8        2                961               1101            98.00%        14         9       -6      (6)       -1       21        19
2006       14         9        3                986               1157            73.00%       200      125       -75      (75)      (1)      21        (7)
2007       15        10        4               1011               1214            73.00%       205      131       -73      (73)                         (7)
2008       16        11        5               1035               1273            73.00%       210      137       -72      (72)                         (7)  o
2009       17        12        6         1     1059     1354      1332     1763  73.00%        306      430       124     124                           12
2010       18                  7         2     1083     1390      1393     1856  27.00%        846     1220       373     373                          37
2011       19                  8         3     1106     1426      1454     1951   27.00%       866     1279       413     413                          41
2012       20                  9         4     1129     1461      1515     2048  13.10%       1053     1594       541     541                          54
2013       21                 10         5     1152     1497      1577     2147  13.10%       1076     1667       592     592                          59
2014       22                 11         6     1174     1532      1639     2247  13.10%       1098     1741       644     644                          64
2015       23                 12         7     1195     1566      1701     2349  13.10%       1119     1816       697     697                           70
2016       24                 13         8     1216     1600      1764     2451   13.10%      1140     1891       751     751                           75
2017       25                 14         9     1237     1633      1825     2555   8.20%       1226     2078       851     851                           85
2018       26                 15        10     1256     1666      1887     2660   8.20%       1247     2158       910     910                           91
2019       27                 16        11     1275     1698      1947     2765   8.20%       1268     2238       970     970                           97
2020       28                 17        12     1294     1729      2007     2869   8.20%       1287     2318      1030    1,030                         103
2021       29                 18        13     1311     1759      2066     2974   8.20%       1306     2397      1090   1,090                          109
2022       30                 19        14     1328     1789      2124     3078   6.00%       1356     2535      1178    1,178                         118
2023       31                 20        15     1343     1817      2180     3182   6.00%       1374     2614      1240   1,240                          124
2024       32                 21        16     1358     1845      2234     3284   6.00%       1391     2692      1301    1,301                         130  t
2025       33                 22        17     1372     1871      2287     3385   6.00%       1407     2769      1362   1,362                          136r
2026       34                 23        18     1385     1896      2337     3484   6.00%       1422     2844      1422    1,422                         142  
2027       35                 24        19     1397     1920      2386     3581    5.40%      1445     2935      1490    1,490                         149  R'
mX



Table 1: Economic Analysis of the Project Component: Improving Quality of Basic Education
Projected Flows of Costs and Benefits from Quality Education Improvement
Basic Education - For One Student
Fu1 EmpIrcment   per Year (Balboas)   Unemploy. Inme N of Unempl. Ircorme Differential    Pred   Education  Coes 
Year     Age    ScIoo-ng Expnce Epenne        L  Inone     du |    enoonde     mernl    Lew      M id    Balboa    U USS   Coct   Resource   Ben
1   I FJrimary Ed. |Secornd. Ed. I rPsrnrfEd. |Second. Ed. I %  Inco     Ime MO              M S    ScAg   of ft Prt
2028       36               25       20    1408      1943    2431      3676   5.40%      1459    3007    1548   1,548                          155
2029       37               26       21    1418      1965    2475    3768   5.40%        1471    3075    1604   1,604                          160
2030       38                27      22    1427    1985    2515    3856   5.40%          1482    3141      1659   1,659                        166
2031       39               28       23    1435    2003    2553    3942   5.40%          1492    3203    1712   1,712                          171
2032       40                29      24    1441      2021     2588    4023   5.40%       1500    3263    1762   1,762                          176
2033      41                 30      25    1447    2037    2619    4100   5.40%          1508    3318    1810   1,810                          181
2034       42                31      26    1451    2051       2647    4174   5.40%       1515    3371      1856   1,856                        186
2035       43               32       27    1454    2064    2672    4242   5.40%          1520    3419      1899   1,899                        190
2036       44                33      28    1456    2075    2693    4305   5.40%          1524    3463    1939   1,939                          194
2037       45                34      29    1457    2084    2710    4364   5.30%          1528    3506    1978   1,978                          198
2038       46               35       30    1457    2092    2724    4417   5.30%          1530    3541    2011   2,011                          201
2039       47               36       31    1455    2099    2734    4464   5.30%          1531    3572    2042   2,042                          204
2040       48               37       32    1453    2103    2740    4506   5.30%          1530    3598    2068   2,068                          207
2041       49               38       33    1449    2106    2742    4541   5.30%          1528    3619    2091   2,091                          209         o
2042       50               39       34    1444    2107    2741        4571   5.30%      1525    3635    2111   2,111                          211         w
2043      51                40       35    1438    2107    2736    4594   5.30%          1520    3646    2126   2,126                          213
2044       52               41       36    1431      2105    2727    4611   5.30%        1515    3653    2138   2,138                          214
2045       53               42       37    1423    2101       2714    4621   5.30%       1508    3654    2146   2,146                          215
2046       54               43       38    1413    2096    2697    4625   5.30%          1500    3650    2150   2,150                          215
2047       55               44       39    1403    2089    2677    4623   4.70%          1500    3664    2163   2,163                          216
2048       56               45       40    1391      2080    2653    4614   4.70%        1490    3649    2159   2,159                          216
2049       57               46       41    1379    2069    2626    4598   4.70%          1479    3630    2152   2,152                          215
2050       58               47       42    1365    2057    2595    4576   4.70%          1466    3606    2140   2,140                          214
2051       59               48       43    1351      2044    2561      4548   4.70%      1453    3577      2125   2,125                        212
2052       60               49       44    1336    2029    2524    4514   4.70%          1438    3543    2105   2,105                          211
2053      61                50       45    1319    2012    2484    4474   4.70%          1423    3505    2083   2,083                          208
2054       62                51      46    1302      1994    2442    4428   4.70%        1406    3463    2057   2,057                          206
2055       63               52       47    1285      1975    2396    4376   4.70%        1389    3416    2027   2,027                          203
2056       64               53       48    1266      1954    2348    4319   4.70%        1370    3365    1995   1,995                          199
2057      65                54       49    1247      1932    2298    4257   8.80%        1293    3168    1875   1,875                          187
0
For 10% of Eaming differences:                               IRR: 19.41 
Sources: Osn eimatLone based on esimated E,dendedr earrng functions.
Scenario: Proect induced eamrgs = 10% of eamins diferertials between low Income and middle inncoe profiles; Excluding costs of Assessent Compont e
m X
rt .
En Li~



104                                   ANNEX 13
Economic Benefits
Table 2: Costs and Beneficiaries (USS)
Number of           Costs
Component                      Preschool Children       per
Year          Expanding CEFACEI Preschool Program            Benefit from         Child
Capital Costs   Recurrent Costs    Total           the Program
1996       420,000         250,000          670,000            2,760              243
1997       160,000          520,000         680,000            5,520              123
1998       160,000         790,000          950,000            8,280               115
1999       190,000         1,090,000       1,280,000           11,040              116
2000       200,000         1,490,000        1,690,000          14,740              115
Total      1,130,000       4,140,000        5,270,000          42,340              124
Note: Assuming 42,340 children attended.
Table 3: Component - Expanding Non-Formal Preschool (Mother-to-Mother) Program
Costs and Bencficiaries (USS)
Number of           Costs
Component                      Preschool Children       per
Year              Mother-to-Mother Pilot Program            Benefit from          Child
Capital Costs   Recurrent Costs     Total          the Program
1,996       60,000          30,000           90,000             600                243
1,997       80,000          30,000          110,000             600                243
1,998       30,000          30,000           60,000             600                243
1,999       70,000          30,000          100,000             600                243
2,000       50,000          30,000           80,000              600               243
Total       290,000         150,000         440,000             3,000              243
Note; Assuming 3,000 children benefiting ftom the program.
Table 4: Savings by Type of Intcrvcntion (USS)
Unit Costs         Number         Savings Relative
Programs                      per Child            of          to Formal Public
per Year        Beneficiaries       Preschool
Formal Public Preschool                          288              45,340               0
CEFACEI Program                                  124              42.340           6,943,760
Mother-to-Mother Program                         243               3,000            135,000
Total Savings                                                                      7,078,760



105                                     ANNEX 13
Economic Benefits
Table 5: Options for Expanding Lower Secondary Enrollment
Option A
Lower Secondary Scholarships
Total
Unit         Number         Costs for
Cost            of          Option A
US$        Beneficiaries      US$
315           9,600        3,024,000
Option B
Construction of New Schools (Classrooms)
Unit Costs                    Average        Total
Number      Student     Number of          of         Number of       Annual         Costs
of         per       Classrooms    Construction     Teachers      Salary per       for
Students   Classroom     Needed        & Furniture      Needed        Teacher      Option B
USS                          USS           US$
9,600        15           640           25,000          640           5,404       19,458,560



106
ANNEX 14
Project Implementation Schedule
Task Name                                     Start    Finish    1996  | 1996  J  1997        1998      1999     2000  | 2001
1N296    1N2196
Teacher Training                               2t96   5/29/00                                                 IE
Pre-primary                                    2N2/96 1112/99 .g_
Train advisors and supervisors                 212S5   2117/96
Train Promotoras                              10/2/96  11/12/99
Train Mothers-Leaders                          23/397   3/13/00
Primary                                        5/2/96   5/29/00
Train the training group in Muttigrade Methodology  5N/96   5/29/00
Train teachers in Multigrade methodology       6/4/97   6/23/00
Educational Materials                         1/15/96  10/ 2299
Preprinary                                     1/2196   10/3/00                   _
Procurement of educational materials for children  2/3/97   2t29/0O
Packages of educ. mat. distributed             3/4197   3124/00
Manuals and texts for Promotoras printed      1/15/96   1/21/99
Manuals and texts for Promotoras distributed  4122/96    5/8/98
Write terms of reference for radio programs   212196    128/96
Open bidding for radio programs                3/4/96    6/4/96
Award bidding for radio programs               6/5/96    6/5/96
Distribute programs to radio stations          2/3/97    3/3/97
Radio programs broadcast                       4/3/98   10/3/00.
Primary                                        1/296 224/00              ____                                           i
Prepare bidding documents                     1/15/96   3/15/96
Prepare short list of publishers              2/15/96   3/15/96
Invite presentation of unpriced technical proposals   3/18/96   3118/96
Study technical proposals and propose technical o   3/19/96   7119/96
Open bidding for textbooks and classrooms librari   7/22/96   7/22196
Award contracts for textbooks and libraries  10/22196  10/22/96
Textbooks and libraries distributed to districts  1/22197   1/22/97
Textbooks and libraries distributed to schools  2/24197   2t287
Create new sets of activity cards             5/15/96   6/14/96
Print new sets of activity cards              6/17196   6/17/96
Distribute new sets of activity cards          7/2196    7ns96
Prepare bidding documents                     1/15/99   3/18/99



lu/
ANNEX 14
Project Implemfentation Schedule
Task Name                                       Start     Finish     1996      1996      1997      1998 _   1999  |  2000  ! 2001
Prepare short list of publishers                2115/99   3/16/99
Invite presentation of unpriced technical proposals   3117199   3117199     .         -
Study technical proposals and propose technical o    3/18/99   7/20/99
Open bidding for textbooks and classrooms librari    7/21/99   7/21/99
Award contracts for textbooks and libraries    10(2299  10122/99
Textbooks and libraries distributed to districts  1/24/00   1/24/00
Textbooks and libraries distributed to schools  2124100    3/1/00
Create new sets of activity cards               5/17/99   6/16/99
Print new sets of activity cards                6/17/99   6/17/99
Distribute sets of Activity Cards                6/4/97   6/23/00                                   I               .   I
Distribute new sets of activity cards            7/2/99     7/2/99
Educational Assessment                           7/2/96   3/31/00                _
Produce achievement tests, surveys and technica  3/4/96   3129/00            1         1         |
Pilot achievement tests                          712/96    7/3100           .       |
Administer achievement tests                    10/2/96    10/2/00          . 
Issuance of reports                             1/15/97     2/4/00          .                   I l
Pilot school readiness test                     1012197  10131/97           *
Administration of tests                          4/298      4/3/00
Issuance of reports                              7/2/98   7/21/00                                    I
Pilot affective tests                            4/2/99   4/30199                                           I
Administer affective tests                       9/2/99    9/4/00
Issuance of reports                             3/31/00   3/31/00
Scholarships for poor students                   5/2/95  11/22/00
Advertise program                                5/95   7/24/00
Selects students                                 8/2196   8117100           *         |               l
Issue reports on planned distribution of scholarshi    11/4196  11/22/00                           I         I I
Issue reports on effective execution of the plan  6Q297   6/22/00                              I         I              |
Primary school rehabilitation                    9/4195   6/23/00
Plan construction and repairs for the following year    914/95   99I/95     .
Award contracts                                  2/2/96  4/25/00                        l
Monitoring                                       6/3/96   6/23/00           .                       I         l
Select participants for the pilot on community invot    1 197  11129/99                       I         9



iub
ANNEX 14
Project Implementation Schedule
Task Name                                      Start    Finish     1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001
Start works in selected communities             5/2/97   5/18/99                       I
Terms of reference for microplanning study      2/2/96    2/2/96
Procure microplanning study                     314196    6/4/96
Award microplanning study                       7/2/96    7/2t96
Microplanning study completed                   7/2/96    7/2197
Expansion of Non-formal pre-primary             1/8/96   10/2/00
Identify geographical location for CEFACEls     1/8/96   1/21199           .                  I         l
Identify Parents Associations                   219/96   2V9199           :                   :
Receive Parents Association documentation and i  5/2/96   7123/99            1
Transfer funds to pay Promotoras                1/2197   10/2/00 0                              I   I                |
Initiate services for children                  1/2/98   1/13/00                              I         I
Institutional Strengthening                     6/3/96    10/00               _________.-_-_____  .-. __i  .:___-- - 
Prepare terms of reference for studies          6/3/96    9/3/96
Contract studies                               10/3196  10130/96
Seminar for analysis of findings               1114/97   12/4/97
Policy decisions taken under the recommendation  1/8/98    4/8/98
Prepare terms of reference for MIS' systems and  2/2196    2/296
Contract MIS systems and hardware               5/2/96    5/2/96
Receive MIS systems and hardware                9/2/96    9/296:
Planning of training                            6/3/96    7/3/96
Provide training to MOE personnel              10/2196   10/2/00          i.            __                  _



109                            ANNEX 15
Supervision Plans and Reviews
SUPERVISION PLANS AND REVIEWS
1.    The composition and staffing level of the supervision program for each year of
project implementation are presented in Table 1. The supervision teams will consist of the
Task Manager, EBRD staff and consultants with expertise in the areas of education (pre-
primary, evaluation, teacher training, textbooks), Management Information Systems,
education finance and planning, procurement and project implementation. Supervision
missions will normally be conducted twice a year, in February and September, beginning in
July 1996. All missions will involve discussions with project officials as well as project
field visits, on the basis of which the mission will evaluate the project.
2.    Project Launch Seminar. A Project Launch Seminar will be conducted around
April 1996 to: (a) review implementation of the project's rules and procedures manual,
and familiarize the MOE with the project's monitoring procedures and banks guidelines
and procedures on procurement, disbursement and auditing requirements; and (b) review
the project requirements for progress reports on the implementation of the Annual Work
Programs.
3.    Annual Review. The purpose of the annual review is to assess project
performance against specific output and impact indicators, primarily through the analysis
of: (a) the Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 14); (b) the Annual Implementation
Plan for the following year; and (c) the Annual Implementation Report of the previous
year. Annual Reviews will take place in September of each year.
4.    Annual Reviews will be held by September 15 of each year by MOE, MIPPE, FES
and IFARHU. In preparation for the Annual Project Review, the PCU Coordinator, in
coordination with responsible units, will prepare and present to the Bank, no later than
September 1 st of each year, the following documents.
(I)   compliance with the Project Operations Manual;
(ii)   compliance with the covenants of the Bank Loan Agreement;
(iii)  information pertaining to all Project Monitoring Indicators (Output and
Impact Indicators);
(iv)   status of procurement of goods and services;
(v)   highlights of findings, lessons learned and problems pertaining to the
technical, institutional, administrative or financial implementation of the
project.
Project Action Plan for the next calendar year, covering:



110                             ANNEX 15
Supervision Plans and Reviews
(I)   program of activities for each subcomponent of the project;
(ii)   schedule of activities for each subcomponent of the project;
(iii)  detailed procurement plan;
(iv)   detailed budget by source of funds and uses, for each quarter, specifying
counterpart funds;
(v)   specific reports when needed.
5.    Project Mid-Term Review. This review will be carried out on Sept 1998 jointly
by the Government and IiBRD. The focus of the review is to ascertain to what extent the
project has achieved its development objectives. The PAU Coordinator will prepare the
same reports for the Project Mid-Term Review as for the Annual Project Reviews.
6.    Modirications to Project Design and Implementation Plans. During Annual
Project Reviews and the Project Mid-Term Review, there is the opportunity to update
project targets and discuss changes needed in project design or implementation plans. In
this context IBRD may require that the PAU prepare an action plan for the Bank's review
and approval within two months following the completion of the Project Review. The
PCU Coordinator will be responsible for organizing the Mid-Term Project Review and
ensuring that agreed follow-up actions, satisfactory to the Bank, are taken in timely
manner.



111                                              ANNEX 15
Supervision Plans and Reviews
Table 1: Supervision, Project Launch and annual Review
Timing                                   Superviion Team                Staffing (In weeks)
1996                           April                          Task Manager
Project Launch Workshop        Pre-primary spec.
Teacher training multigrade
spec.                                        I
Textbooks spec.
Civil Works spec.                            1
MIS Spec.                    *
Educ. Planner spec.
Procurement spec.
September                      Task Manager                                 I
Annual Review                  Pre-primary spec.                            I
Teacher training multigrade
spec.                                        I
Textbooks spec.                              1
MIS spec.                                   1
Educ. Planner spec
Procurement spec.                            1
1997                           April                          Task Manager                                 I
Pre-prinmay spec.
Teacher training multigrade
spec.
Textbooks spec.                              I
Civil Works spec.                            I
MIS spec.                                    I
September                      Task Manager                                 I
Annual Review                  Educ. Planner spec.                          I
Unidentified fieid                           I
Unidentified field                           1
1998                           April                          Task Manager                                 I
Educ. Planner spec.                          I
Unidentified field                           I
Unidentified rield                           I
September                      Task Manager                                 I
Mid-Term Review                Pre-primary spec.                            I
Teacher training multigrade
spec.                                        1
Textbooks spec.                              I
Civil Works spec.                            I
NIS Spec.
1999                           April                          Task Manager
Educ. Planner spec.
Unidentified field
Unidentified field                           I
September                      Task Manager                                 I
Annual Review                  Educ. Planner spec.
Unidentified field
Unidentified field                           1
2000                           April                          Task Manager                                 I
Educ. Planner spec.                          I
Unidentified field
Unidentified field
Unidentified fieid
2001                           September                      Task Manager                                 I
Annual Review                  Pre-primary spec.
Teacher training multigrade
spec.
Textbooks spcc.
Civil Works spec.
MIS spec.                                    I
April                          Task Manager                                 I
Final annual Review and        Pre-primary spec.                            I
Completion                     Teacher training multigrade
spec.
Textbooks spec.                              I
Civil Works spec.                            I
MIS spec.                                    I
Educ. Planner spec.                          I
Procurement spec.                            I



112                            ANNEX 16
Documents in Project Files
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
Benito, Carlos "Economic Analysis of the Education Project of Panama", Nov. 1995.
Contraloria General de la Republica. 1993a. "Estadistica Panameha, Situaci6n Social,
Estadisticas del Trabajo (Empleo) Aflo 1990." Direcci6n de Estadistica y Censo,
Panama, Repiublica de Panama.
Contraloria General de la Republica. 1993b. "Panama en Cifras: Adios 1988-1992."
Direcci6n de Estadistica y Censo, Panama, Republica de Panama.
Contraloria General de la Republica. 1993c. "Situaci6n Cultural: Educaci6n Ao 1990."
Direcci6n de Estadistica y Censo, Panama, Republica de Panama.
Contraloria General de la Republica. 1993d. "Situaci6n Demografica: Proyecci6n de la
Poblaci6n Total del Pais por Sexo, Segun Grupos de Edad: Ahos 1990-2025."
Boletin Especial. Direcci6n de Estadistica y Censo, Panama, Republica de
Panama.
Contraloria General de la Republica. 1993e. "Situaci6n Social: Estadisticas del Trabajo
(Empleo) Aiio 1990." Direcci6n de Estadistica y Censo, Panama, Republica de
Panama.
Contraloria General de la Repiublica. 1994. "Indicadores Sociales, Anos: 1970, 1980,
1983 y 1986-92." Direcci6n de Estadistica y Censo, Panama, Republica de
Panama.
Instituto para la Formaci6n y Aprovechamiento de Recursos Humanos (IFARHU). 1984.
Memoria. Panama City, Panama: IFARHU.
Manzur, A. and others. 1993. "Concertaci6n Interinstitucional para el Desarrollo de la
Gerencia Educativo." Universidad de Panama, UNESCO Proyecto Movilizador,
Ciudad Universitaria, Panama.
Ministerio de Educaci6n. n.d.. "Informe Final del Proyecto Movilizador de Apoyo a
Acciones Relevantes de Educaci6n para todos en Panama." Versi6n Preliminar -
Borrador. PAN/92/001. Panama.
Ministerio de Educaci6n (MOE). 1985. "Sintesis General del Plan de Desarrollo
Educativo." Documento de Trabajo. Oficina de Planificaci6n Educativa, Panama,
Republica de Panama.



113                            ANNEX 16
Documents in Project Files
Ministerio de Educaci6n. 1986. "La Educaci6n Primaria por Corregimiento, Anio Escolar
1985." Oficina de Planificaci6n, Departmento de Estadistica, Ministerio de
Educaci6n, Republica de Panama.
Ministerio de Educaci6n. 1987. "Documento Preliminar del Anteproyecto de Ley de
Actualizaci6n del Sistema Educativo Nacional." Ministerio de Educaci6n,
Panama, Republica de Panama.
Ministerio de Educaci6n. 1991. "Anteproyecto de Ley por el cual se Modifican,
Adicionan y Subrogan Articulos de la Ley 47, de 24 Septiembre de 1946, Organica
de Educaci6n." Comision Coordinadora de Educaci6n Nacional, Panama,
Republica de Panama.
Ministerio de Educaci6n. 1992a. Informe Amlal 1993. PanamA: Ministerio de
Educaci6n.
Ministerio de Educaci6n. 1992b. "Proyecto Integral para el Mejoramiento de la Gesti6n
Educativa. La Reprobaci6n y Deserci6n Escolar en el Primer Nivel de Ensehianza
en Panama en el Quinquenio 1986-1990." Oficina de Planificaci6n, Departmento
de Estudios e Investigaciones Educativas, PanamA, Republica de PanamA.
Ministerio de Educaci6n. 1993a. I7forme Anuial 1993. Panama: Ministerio de
Educaci6n.
Ministerio de Educaci6n. 1993b. Plani Naciotial de Desarrollo Educativo: 1994-1998.
PanamA: Ministerio de Educaci6n.
Ministerio de Educaci6n. 1993c. "Proyecciones 1993." Direcci6n de Perfeccionamiento
al Educador, Panama, Republica de PanamA.
Ministerio de Educaci6n. 1993e. "Situaci6n y Perspectivas de la Educaci6n en las Areas
Rurales de PanamA." Oficina Subregional de UNESCO para Centroamerica,
Ministerio de Educaci6n, Republica de Panama.
Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Politica Econ6mica (MIPPE). 1993. "Mapa de la Pobreza."
Direcci6n General de Planificaci6n Econ6mica y Social, Divisi6n de Planificaci6n
Social, Departamento de Recursos Humanos y Empleos, PanamA, Republica de
PanamA.
Ministerio de Trabajo y Bienestar Social. 1984. "Informaci6n Estadistica Sobre Recursos
Humanos (Censos, Encuestas de Hogares y Otras Fuentes)." Boletin No. 2.
Proyecto 525-0221, Planificaci6n y Generaci6n de Empleo, Sistema de
Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos (SIRH), Direcci6n Nacional de Empleo,
PanamA.



114                            ANNEX 16
Documcnts in Project Files
Pic6n, C. 1993. Concertando el Futuaro de la Educaci6n Paniameiia. Panama: Programa
de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo and UNESCO.
Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo (PNUD). 1993. "Memoria:
Encuentro Nacional Unidad y Desarrollo Humano." PNUD, Bambito, Repuiblica
de PanamA.
Proyecto UNESCO-Alemania. 1993. "Reunion Tecnica Subregional Sobre Experiencias
Innovadoras de Educaci6n en Las Areas Rurales del Istmo Centroamericano."
Informe Tecnico. Proyecto UNESCO-Alemania, 507/RLA/10, Santiago de
Veraguas, Rep[blica de Panama.
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UTNESCO). 1993a.
"Proyecto Apoyo as Sistema de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n
Panamena." UNESCO, New York, New York.
Universidad Santa Maria La Antigua (USMA). 1991. "La USMA en Cifras - 1990."
Secretaria General, Universidad Santa Maria La Antigua, PanamA, Republica de
PanamA.



MAP SECTION






REPUBLICA DEL PANAMA
DIVISION POLITICO - ADMINISTRATIVA: 1990
BOCAS DEL TORO                    38.  Las Huacas                   80. Rio Indio                    BOQUETE                           RENACIMIENTO                      202. Chepigana
BOCAS DEL TORO                    39. Toza                          81. SanJosedelGeneral             117. Boquete(Cabecera)           159. Rio Sereno (Cabecera)        203. Garachind
I.   Bocas del Toro (Cabecera)                                                                       118. Caldera                      160. Breni6n                      204. Jaqu6
2.   BahiasAzul                   OLA                               PORTOBELO                         119. Palmira                     161. Canas Gordas                 205. Puerto Pina
3.   Bastimentos                  40. Ola (Cabccera)                82. Portobelo (Cabecera)                                           162. Monte Lirio                  206. Rio Congo
4.  Calovebora o Santa Catalina    41. El Cope                      83. Cacique                      BUGABA                            163. Plaza de Caizan              207. Rio Iglesias
5.  Punta Laurel                  42. El Palmar                     84. Puerto Lindo o Garrote        120. LaConcepci6n (Cabecera)     164. Santa Cruz                   208. Sambu
6.  Tobobe                        43. El Picacho                    85. Isla Grande                   121. Aserrio de Gariche                                            209. Seteganti
44.  La Pava                      86. Maria Chiquita                122. Bugaba                      SAN FELIX                         210. Taimati
CHANGUINOLA                                                                                           123. Cerro Punta                 165. Las Lajas (Cabecera)         211. Tucuti
7.  Changuinola (Cabecera)        PFNONOME                          SANTA ISABEL                      124. G6mez                       166. Cascabel
8.  Almirante                     45.  Penonome (Cabecera)          87. Palenque (Cabecera)           125. La Estrella                 167. Hato Corotu                  PINOGANA
9.  Guabito                       46. Caunaveral                    88. Cuango                        126. San Andrds                  168. Hato Culantro                212. El Real (Cabecera)
47. Cocle                         89. Miramar                      127. Santa Marta                  169. Hato obo                     213. Boca de Cupe
CHIRIQUI GRANDE                   48. Chiguiri Arriba               90. Nombre de Dios                128. Santa Rosa                  170. Hato luli                    214. Paya
10. ChiriquiGrande(Cabecera)     49. El Coco                       91. Palmira                       129. Santo Domingo                171. Hato Pil6n                   215. Pinogana
11. Canquintui                   50. Pajonal                       92. Playa Chiquita                130. Sortova                      172. Iuay                         216. Pucuro
12. Guoroni                      51. Rio Grande                    93. Santa Isabel                  131. Volcan                       173. Quebradade Loro              217. Yape
13. Mununi                       52. Rio Indio                     94. Viento Frio                                                     174. Salto Dupi                   218. Yaviza
14. Piedra Roja                  53. ToabrW                                                          DAVID                             175. San Fdlix
15. Punta Rohalo                 54. Tulu                          COMARCA  DE                       132. David (Cabecera)                                              CEMACO
133. Bijagual                    SAN LORENZO                       219. Cirilo Guaynora
SAN BLAS                         134. Cochea                       176. Horconcitos (Cabecera)       220. Lajas Blancas
COCLE                             COLON                             95. Ailigandi                     135. Chiriqui                    177. Boca chica                   221. Manuel Ortega
AGUADULCE                         COLON                             96. Narganl                       136. Guaca                       178. Boca de Balsa
16. Aguadulce (Cabecera)         55.  Barrio Norte                 97. Puerto Obaldia                137. Las Lomas                    179. Boca del Monte              SAMBU
17. El Cristo                    56. Barrio Sur                    98. Tubuala                       138. Pedregal                     180. Camar6nArriba                222. Jingurud6
18. El Roble                     57. Buena Vista                                                     139. San Carlos                   181. Cerro Banco                 223. Rio Sabalo
19. Pocri                        58. Cativ5                                                          140. San Pablo Nuevo              182. Cerro de Patena
59. Cincito                       CHIRIQUI                          141. San Pablo Viejo             183. Emplanada de Chorcha
ANTON                             60. Crist6bal                     AIANJE                                                             184. San Juan                     HERRERA
20. Ant6n (Cabecera)              61. Escobal                       99. Alanje (Cabecera)            DOLEGA                            185. San Lorenzo                  CHITRE
21. Cabuya                        62. Lim6n                         100. Divala                      142. Dolega (Cabecera)            186. Soloy                        224. Chitre (Cabecera)
22. El Chiru                      63. Nueva Providencia             101. El Tejar                     143. Dos Rios                                                      225. LaArena
23. El Retiro                     64. Puerto Pil6n                  102. Guarumal                     144. Los Anastacios              TOLE                              226. Monagrillo
24. El Valle                      65. Sabanitas                     103. Palo Grande                  145. Potrenillos                 187. Tole (Cabecera)
25. Juan Diaz                     66. Salamanca                     104. Quer6valo                    146. Potrenillos Abajo           188. Alto Caballero               LAS MINAS
26. Rio Hato                      67. San Juan                      105. Santo Tomas                  147. Rovira                      189. Cerro Cana                   227. Las Minas
27. San Juan de Dios              68. Santa Rosa                                                      148. Tinajas                     190. Cerro Iglesias               228. Chepo
28. Santa Rita                                                      BARU                                                               191. Cerro Puerco                 229. Chumical
CHAGRES                           106. Puerto Armuelles (Cabecera)   GUAIACA                         192. Cerro Viejo                  230. El Toro
LA PINTADA                        69. NuevoChagres(Cabecera)        107. Limones                      149. Gualaca (Cabecera)          193. Chichica                     231. Leones
29. La Pintada(Cabecera)          70. Achiote                       108. Progreso                    150. Homito                       194. LajasdeTole                  232. Quebrada del Rosario
30. El Harino                    71. El Guabo                                                        151. Los Angeles                  195. Maraca
31. El Potrero                    72. La Encantada                  BOQUERON                         152. Paja de Sombrero             196. Pefra Blanca                 LOSPOZOS
32. Llano Grande                  73. Palmas Bellas                 109. Boquer6n (Cabecera)         153. Rinc6n                       197. Potrero de Cana              233. Los Pozos (Cabecera)
33. Piedras Gordas                74. Pinia                         110. Bagala                                                        198. Quebrada de Piedra           234. El Capuri
75. Salud                         111. Cordillera                  REMEDIOS                          199. Sitio Prado                  235. El Calabacito
NATA                                                                112. Guabal                       154. Remedios (Cabecera)                                           236. El Cedro
34. Natfi (Cabecera)             DONOSO                             113. Guayabal                    155. Cerro Iglesias                                                 237. La Arena
35. Capellania                    76. Miguel de la Borda (Cab.)    114. Paraiso                      156. El Nancito                   DARIEN                            238. LaPitaloza
36. El Cao                        77. Cocl] del Norte               115. Pedregal                    157. Hato Chami                   CHEPIGANA                         239. Los Cerritos
37. Guzmgn                        78. El Guasimo                    116. Tijeras                     158. Lajero                       200. La Palma (Cabecera)          240. Los Cerros de Paja
79. Gobea                                                                                            201. Camoganti
Reference for IBRD Map 27496



OCU                              285. Las Tablas Ahap(             332. El Cacao                    CHIMAN                           SAN MIGUERUTO                    469. Puerto Vidal
241. Oci3 (Cabecera)             286. Nuario                       333. El Corlez.o                 378. Chimhin (Cabecera)          427. Amielia Denis de Icaza      470. Zapotillo
242. Cerro Largo                 287. Palmira                      334. Flores                      379. Brujas                      428. Belisario Porras
243. Los Llanos                  288. Pe6a Bianca                  335. Gufinico                    380. Gonzalo Vgsquez             429. Jos6 Domingo Espinar        MONVTIJO
244. Llano Grande                289. Rio Hondo                    336. La Tronosa                                                   430. Mateo Iturralde             471. Montijo (Cabecera)
245. Pefias Chatas               290. San Jos6                                                      LA CHORRERA                      43l1. Victoriano Lorenzo         472. Arenas
291. San Miguel                  PAA A381. Barrio Balboa                                                                             473. Gobernadora
PARITA                           292. Santo Domingo                PAA A382. Bafrio Col6n                                            TABOGA                           474. La Garceana
246. Parita (Cabecera)           293. Sesteadero                   ARRAIJAN                         383. Amador                      432. Taboga (Cabecera)           475. [eones
247. Cabuya                      294. Valle Rico                   337. Arraijin (Cabecera)         384. Arosemena                   433. Otoque Occidente            476. Llano de Catival
248. Los Castillos               295. Vallerriquito                338. Juan D. Arosemena           385. El Arado                    434. Otoque Oriente              477. Pil6n
249. Llano de Is Cruz                                              339. Nuevo Emperador             386. El Coco                                                      478. Quebro
250. Paris                       LOS SANTOS                        340. Santa Clara                 387. Feuillet                                                    49  eaiMrao
251. Portobelillo                296. Los Santos (Cabecera)        341. Veracrulz                   388. Guadalupe                   VERAGUAS                         49   eai  Mrao
252. Potuga                      297. El Guasinmo                  342. Vista Alegre                389 Herrera                      ATALAYA                          RIO DE JESUS
298. La Colorada                                                  390. Hurtado                     435. Atalaya (Cabeera)            480. Rfo dIe Jestis (Cabecera)
PESE                             299. La Espigadilla               BALBOA                           391. Iturralde                   436. El Barrio                   48 1. Las Huawas
253. Pesc4 (Cabecera)            300. Las Cn,ces                   343. San Miguel (Cabecera)       392. La Repres                   437. La Montalluela              482. Los Castillos
254. Las Cabras (Este)           301. Las Guabaa                   344 La Enend                     393. Los Diaz                                                     483. Utira
255. El Pajajo (Norte No. 1)     302. Los Angeles                  345. La Esnieralda               394. Mendoxa                     CALOBRE
256. El Barrero (Norte No. 2)    303. Los Olivos                   346. La Guinea                   395. Obaldia                     438. Calobre (Cabecesa)          SAN FRANCISCO
'257. El Pedregoso (Oeste No. I)    304. Llano Largo               347. Pedro GonzAlez              396. Plays [conta                439. Barnizal                    484. San Francisco (Cabecers)
258. El Ciruelo (Oeste No. 2)    305. Sabana Grande                348. Saboga                      397. Pucrto Caimilo              440. Chitra                      485. Corral Falso o Pana,nws
259. Sabana GJrande (Sur No. 1)  306. Santa Ana                                                     398. Santa Rita                  441. El Cocla                    486. Los Hatillos
260. Rinc6n Hondo (Sur No. 2)    307. Tres Quebradas              CAPIRA                                                             442. El Potirm                   487. Remarnce
349. Capira (Cabecera)           PANAMA                           443. La Laguna                   488. San Juan
SANTA MARIA                      MACARACAS                         350. Caimito                     399. San Felipe                  444. La Riy&
26 1. Santa Maria (Cabecera)     308. Macaracas (Cabeccra)         351. Campana                     400. El Chorrillo                445. la Tetilla                  SANTA FE
262. Chupampa                    309. Bahia Honda                  352. Cermetmo                    401. Santa Ana                   446. La Ycgttada                 489. Santa Ft (Cabecera)
263. El Rinc6n                   310. Bajos de Goera               353. Ciri de los Sotos           402. LA Exposici6n o Calidonia   447. Las Gulas                   490. Calov&bora
311I. Corozal                    354. Ciri Grandte                403. Curundti                    448. Moisjaras                   491. El Alto
312. ChupA                       355. El Cacao                    404. Betania                     449. San Jo                      492. El Cuay
LOS SANTOS                       313. El Cedro                    356. La Trinidad                  405. Bella Vista                                                  493. El Pantano
GUARARE                          314. Espino Amarillo              357. Las Ollas Amfba             406. Pueblo Nuevo                CAEAZAS                          494. Galucito
264. Guarant (Cabecera)          315. La Mes-a                     358. Lidice                      407. San Francisco               450. Cajiazas (Cabecera)
265. El Espinal                  316. Las Palmas                  359. Villa Carmen                 408. Parque L.efevre             45 1. Agua de Salud              SANITiAGO
266. El Macano                   317. Llano de Piedra             360. Villa Rosario                409. Rio Abajo                   452. Cerro de Plata              495. Santiago (Cabecera)
267. Guarar6 Arriba              31I8. Mogoll6n                                                     410. Juan Diaz                   453. Los Valle                   496. Canto del Llano
268. La Enea                                                      CHAME                             411. Pedregal                    454. San Mareclo                 497. La Colorada
269. La Pasera                   PEDASI                            361. Chame (Cabecera)            412. Anc6n                                                        498. La Pefha
270. Las Trancas                 319. Pedasi (Cabecera)           362. Bejuco                       413. Chilibre                    LA MESA                          499. La Raya de Santa Maria
271. Llano Abajo                 320. Los Asientos                 363. Buenos Aires                414. Las Cumbres                 455. La Mesa (Cabecera)          500. Ponuga
321. Mariah6                     364. Cabuya                      415. Pacora                      456. Bisvalles                   Sal1. San Pedro del Espino
LAS TABLAS                       322. Purio                        365. ChicA                       416. San Martin                  457. Bor6
272. Las Tablas (Cabecera)                                         366. El Libano                   417. Tocumen                     458. Llano Grande                SONA
273. Bajo Corral                 POCRI                             367. Las Lajas                                                    459. San Bartolo                 502. Song (Cabecera)
274. Bayano                      323. Pocri (Cabecera)             368. Nueva Gorgona               SAN CARLOS                                                        503. Bahia Honda
275. El Carate                   324. El Cattaflstulo              169. funta Chame                 418. San Carlos (Cabecera)       LAS PALMAS                       504. Calidonia
276. El Cocal                    325. Lajamina                     170. Sajalices                   419. El Espino                   460. Las Palmias (Cabecera)      SOS. Cativd
277. El Manantial  326. Paraiso                   371, Sorb                        420. El Hligo                    461. Cerro de Casa               506. El Marahion
278. El Mui'toz                  327. Paritilla                                                     421. Guayabito                   42   ooa                          0.Gaua
279. El Pedregoso                                                 C11IE:I,                          422. La Et-mita                  463. El Maria                    508. La Soledad
280. La Laja                     TONOSI                            172. Chcpo (Cabecera)            423. La Laguna                   464. El Piro                     509. Quebrada de Oro
281. La Miel                     328. Tonosi (Cabeera)             171. Cafiita                     424. Las Uvas                    465. El Prado                    SIO. Rio Grande
282. La Palma                    329. Altos de Gt3era              174 Chepillo                     425. Los Llanitos                466. El Rinc6n                   SI I. Rodeo Viejo
283. La Tiz.a                    330. Cahas                        175 Fl t.lano                    426. San Jos6                    467. Lola
284. Las Palmitas                331. El lItbedero                 376. Las Margaritas                                               48  rxa
177. Santa Cruz de Chinina
Reference for IBRD Map 27496



IBRD 27496
83-                                       82'                                       8B8579                                                                                                                        78'-                                      
p-  PA N A MA                                                         '                                                C4'2 R D 3BE A N                                           04' 3 EN
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                 -                                                                       -  PANAMA
COSTA                                                                                                                                      C -  0 o   7.   4d  8 3  .30MEEUS  2   . "   /_
1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                           ' . ,      ____-._ 45                                                         .3m'                              97  ,___\D_-rCLMl
~~~~~~~~~le <>''3X R7ICA                                                                                                      -';(._N_9,>
~~~~S-   2f      3% '' 
' 5  Go' to  do   o O                                INSETEAE/E                     99  9    ''  '                        UNITEDSSTATES OFTCMRIS T
PRJC MUIIAIISPAN   3hi-r9\G.,                                                                                                                                                                                     H  AAA
0~~~~~~~~~~~
@~~~~~                              ~~ PROVINCEo CAIAS'                   c,, "    4j                                                               D.f     
->                          -'  - '                     "-- MNCPLEUDR E  ,:1-r 3'    -                                  V.5__.,  MEIORBUEJAAC
-~- ITENAONL OUDAIE D J22  \ ,, Q   , . ,            DL                                       s      Tbr_ .  t  I  -                       zrE AVDRI,AAU 
tio_ onrhrs mp do nlt.  Dmp17. on   I'E -er7  Th3 WoAld f' GTOUP                                            \ }\SEE   E                                                                                   K,
~~?t'rn
anre-tlbo*olsthoofon7hOTT on s mo ~~>z~' t; \'- I-4/7 {|< Lt _3> x vCOLOMBIA ( r\
o.~  ~ ~ 0-X plOAI                 A- ,'sh) xonoro                                                                                                                                                P \-'  >    T.-.0T  >   _IST,3F RAR   
9'  Col0 do   Urq,.                ..r    ''>-V&    ~ ....-..  ~                             SEFISETA                     G/FIoFPETam
PROJECT MUNICIPALITIES      CtS-                                                                                                                                                                      THEBAHMA
(il  PROVINCE CAPITALS'~                                  t~~           *i     ~                                                                                                 9 
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                  CUBA          DOMINICAN"'- 
-3  -t  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  Cer  )  ,,>  3"," ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~E
RIVERS          H/ITI                                                                                                                                                                                                 \
------ MUNICIPAi BOUNDARIE                                                                                                                                                 MEXICO   <-4fBEUZE Lo.TAIC
339~~~~~~~S' ~~~~~~.4*wfl3$ -. ~ ~ ~ ~    ~         ~         ~         ~         ,HIN!~A
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES3   >                                   '3                                                __________________
'h. -d.,. .I, d---, .d   /                                                                                                                                                                                PA AM                                  C,= '.\ \
m  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ' ~~~~~   :~~~~f~~~~'  II"                                              -.                      3              / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ COLOMB IA
INSET A  ~'~K)            -                           _________INSET_______                                 BRAZIL
UNITED STATES OF AMERICAFSRUa  1 "









IMAGING
Report No:       15109 PAN
Type: SAR



