Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3994-PA
                                Loan Agreement
                          (Basic Education Project)
                                   between
                             REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated April 3, 1996
                                                        Loan Number 3994-PA
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 1996, between the REPUBLIC OF
PANAMA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the
Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
Page  2
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
            produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
            would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
            III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Primary Education" means the education services
provided in the Borrower's  territory for the first to the
sixth grades of schooling;
      (b)   "FES" means Fondo de Emergencia Social, the
borrower's social emergency fund established as a public entity
with juridical personality pursuant to Executive Decree No.
146, dated May 30, 1990 and published in the Borrower's
official gazette dated June 8, 1990, as amended;
      (c)   "FES Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) of this agreement;
      (d)   "Lower Secondary Education" means the education
services provide in the Borrower's territory for the seventh to
the ninth grades of schooling;
      (e)   "MOE" means Ministerio de Educacion, the Borrower's
Ministry of Education;
      (f)   "IFARHU" means Instituto para la Formacion y
Aprovechamiento de Recursos Humanos, the Borrower's Institute
for Training and Progress of Human Resources Established as a
public entity with juridical personality pursuant to Decree No.
1, published in the Borrower's official gazette dated January
12, 1965;
      (g)   "IFARHU" means the agreement referred to in Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "PAU" means the Project administration unit referred
to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Pre-school Education" means the education services
provided in the Borrower's territory for children aged between
four and five years;
      (j)   "Printing Services" means the printing and production
of any kind of printed educational and training materials;
      (k)   "Project Operational Manual" means a manual,
satisfactory to the Bank which establishes: (i) the
responsibilities of the different departments and agencies of
the Borrower, as well as those of IFARHU and FES, WITH respect
to the implementation of the Project; and (ii) all the
operational aspects of the execution of the Project, including:
(A) an implementation schedule for the Project; and (B) the
Page  3
monitoring indicators for Project evaluation; and
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount equal to thirty five million Dollars
($35,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the
Banco Nacional de Panama or other commercial bank acceptable to
the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
in arrears on  June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts
A.1, A.2, A.4, B and C of the Project through MOE; and (ii)
shall cause: (A) IFARHU to carry out Part A.3 of the Project;
and (B) FES to carry out Parts A.5, A.6 and A.7 of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate economic, financial, administrative, environmental,
educational and pedagogical practices, and in accordance with
the Project Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall, at all times until the completion of
the Project, operate and maintain, under terms and conditions
Page  4
satisfactory to the Bank, in Banco Nacional de Panama or other
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, a revolving fund with
a quarterly balance equivalent to the counterpart funding
requirements for the next three months of Project
implementation, as provided in the annual budget referred to in
Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of Section 3.01 (a)
(ii) (A) above, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement with
IFARHU, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for:
(i) the assignment of the funds and the provision of the
facilities, services and other resources required to enable
IFARHU to carry out Part A.3 of the Project; and (ii) the
obligation of IFARHU to carry out such Part of the Project in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, including the obligation to maintain records and
separate accounts pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply
with its obligations under the IFARHU Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate,
waive or fail to enforce the IFARHU Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 3.03. (a) For the purposes of Section 3.01 (a)
(ii) (B) above, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement with
FES, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for: (i)
the provision to FES of the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required to enable FES to carry out Parts A.5,
A.6 and A.7 of the Project, including the transfer of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to such Parts of the Project;
and (ii) the obligation of FES to carry out such Parts of the
Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement, including the obligation: (A) to maintain
records and separate accounts pursuant to the provisions of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement; (B) to carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
and maintenance, respectively), in respect of Parts A.5, A.6
and A.7 of the Project; and (C) to process the documentation
for the procurement of works and goods under Parts A.5, A.6 and
A.7 of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply
with its obligations under the FES Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate,
waive or fail to enforce the FES Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works, printing services and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the
Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
Page  5
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the
Bank, during the month of August 1996, a budget and an
investment plan for, and the targets to be achieved in, the
implementation of the Project in 1997; and (b) exchange views
with the Bank on said budget, plan and targets, by not later
than September 30, 1996.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with the indicators set forth in the Project Operational
Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof;
      (b)   furnish to the Bank, during the month of July of each
year until the completion of the Project, beginning in 1997, a
report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the twelve calendar months preceding the date of
said report pursuant to the monitoring and evaluation
indicators set forth in the Project Operational Manual and
accumulated information thereof since the beginning of the
Project. As part of the report to be delivered during the month
of July of 1999, the Borrower shall also prepare and include,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, data
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
since the initiation of the execution of the Project;
      (c)   in each of the reports referred to in paragraph (b)
above, also recommend the measures to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, including a budget, an investment plan and the targets
to be achieved for the implementation of the Project during the
succeeding calendar year; and
      (d)   review with the Bank, by not later than August 31 of
each year until the completion of the Project, beginning in
1997, the corresponding report furnished according to paragraph
(b) above, and thereafter take all measures, satisfactory to
the Bank, required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
      Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain within MOE, until the report referred to in
Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions has been prepared,
a Project administration unit with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank which shall include,
inter alia: (i) coordination of the implementation of the
Project; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (iii)
preparation of the plan referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this
Agreement, and the reports referred to in Sections 3.07 (b) of
this Agreement and 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions; and (iv)
processing of documentation required for the procurement of
goods (other than for goods under Part A.6 of the Project) and
consultants' services under the Project and the disbursement of
Loan proceeds; and
      (b)   ensure that PAU is at all times staffed with at least
a Project coordinator, a Project accountant and a procurement
officer, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank.
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall include in: (a) MOE's
budget separate lines covering fees for pre-primary community
educators (promotoras and madres lideres), and operating and
Page  6
maintenance costs of the schools included in Parts A.5 and A.7
of the Project;  and (b) IFARHU's budget a separate line
covering the scholarships under Part A.3 of the Project.
                                  ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (a) maintain or
cause to be maintained records and separate accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A.1,
A.2, A.4, B and C of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out such Parts of the
Project; and (b) cause IFARHU and FES to maintain records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices their respective operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A.3, A.5, A.6 and A.7 of the
Project, respectively.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                   cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
Page  7
                            Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   FES or IFARHU shall have failed to perform in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, any of their respective
obligations under the FES Agreement or the IFARHU Agreement,
respectively.
      (b)   the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of FES or IFARHU.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the FES Agreement and the IFARHU Agreement have been
entered into by the respective parties thereto;
      (b)   the Borrower has adopted the Project Operational
Manual;
      (c)   the revolving fund referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement has been established and a deposit of
counterpart funds in the amount of $250,000 has been made;
      (d)   MOE's and IFARHU's budgets for 1996 have included the
separate lines referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
and
      (e)   an investment plan for, and the targets to be
achieved in, the implementation of the Project in 1996, both
satisfactory to the Bank, have been furnished to the Bank.
      Section 6.02. The date July 3, 1996 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Economic
Policy of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Hacienda y Tesoro
            Via Espana y Calle 52 Este
Page  8
            Apartado Postal 2694
            Panama 3, Republica de Panama
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD               197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                               REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
                               By /s/ Olmedo David Miranda
                                                 Authorized Representative
                               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                               By /s/ Sri-Ram Aiyer
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
          SEE ORIGINAL, TABLE WAS DONE IN COLUMNS
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "Educational Materials" means textbooks,
teachers' and students' guides and library books to be provided
under the Project; and
Page  9
      (d)   the term "training" means: (i) rental of training
facilities; (ii) transportation expenses of trainees and MOE's
staff to and from the place where training is provided and
subsistence expenses for such trainees and trainers; (iii)
fellowships for training courses to be provided in the
Borrower's territory or abroad; and (iv) study tours in the
Borrower's territory or abroad.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made: (i) for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $3,000,000 may be made in respect of payments for
expenditures made before that date but after February 1, 1996;
and (ii) under Part A.3 of the Project.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower, for: expenditures for goods, works, printing
services, and consultants' services under contracts costing
less than the equivalent of: (a) $50,000 in the case of goods,
$250,000 in the case of printing services, and $500,000 in the
case of works (except the first two contracts for: (i) works
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent; and (ii)
printing services, to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of
Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement); (b)
$100,000 in the case of consulting firms' services; and (c)
$50,000 in the case of individual consultants' services.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the
quality of Pre-school Education and Primary Education and Lower
Secondary Education in the Borrower's territory; (b) improve
equity of access of children in rural and poor urban areas to
Pre-school Education and Primary Education and Lower Secondary
Education; (c) expand the coverage of Pre-school Education
through community operated non-formal administrative models;
and (d) strengthen the planning, financial, supervision and
policy making capacity of MOE.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Improvement of Quality of, and Expansion of Access
            to, Primary Education and Lower Secondary Education
      Provision of training, with emphasis in multigrade teaching
techniques, for Primary Education teachers.
      Provision of textbooks, supplies, educational and instructional
materials for Primary Education and Lower Secondary Education, and
activity cards for students enrolled in multigrade classes.
      Development and carrying out of the scholarship program for
Primary Education and Lower Secondary Education.
      Development and carrying out of a student assessment system for
Primary Education and Lower Secondary Education, as well as for
students of the tenth to the twelfth year of schooling.
      Rehabilitation and maintenance of schools for Primary Education.
1.    Provision and maintenance of furniture and equipment for
      Primary Education schools.
      Development and carrying out of a pilot program providing for
Page  10
community participation in the rehabilitation and maintenance of
schools for Primary Education.
Part B:     Expansion of Non-Formal Pre-school Education
      Expansion of the coverage of Pre-school Education through the
following community operated non-formal administrative models: (a) the
Borrower's program for community and family centers; and (b) a pilot
program for the training of mothers in child development.
      Development of a mass-media program for public education to
reinforce the training of volunteers and parents on issues concerning
Pre-school Education.
Part C:     Institutional Strengthening
      Provision of technical assistance and goods to: (a)
strengthen the planning, financial, supervision and policy
making capacity of MOE; (b) develop and implement a management
information system for MOE; (c) develop and implement a public
communications campaign to support the Project activities; and
(d) administer, monitor, evaluate and audit the Project.
                                    * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                 Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.    General Definitions
      For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have
the following meanings.
      (a)   "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
      (b)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date.
      (c)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (d)   "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount,
the first day of the Interest Period next following the
Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.    Interest
1.    The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into
Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed
Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a
fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph
2 of this Part B.
2.    (a)   From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not
including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to
the applicable:  (i) LIBOR Base Rate; plus (ii) LIBOR Total
Spread.
      (b)   From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount
until final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed
Page  11
Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:  (i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus (ii) Fixed Total Spread.
3.    For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following
terms have the following meanings.
      (a)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the
Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum.
      (b)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period
in which each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
            (i)    one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
            (ii)   minus (or plus) the weighted average margin,
                   for such Interest Period, below (or above) the
                   London interbank offered rates, or other
                   reference rates, for six-month deposits, in
                   respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
                   portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund
                   single currency loans or portions thereof made
                   by it that include such Disbursed Amount for
                   such Interest Period; as reasonably determined
                   by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                   annum.
      (c)   "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount,
the equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-
month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for
such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest
rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
      (d)   "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed
Amount:
            (i)    one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
            (ii)   minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                   the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                   below (or above) the London interbank offered
                   rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                   deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                   borrowings or portions thereof allocated to
                   fund single currency loans or portions thereof
                   made by it that include such Disbursed Amount;
                   plus
          (iii)    the Bank's risk spread applicable on the
                   Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
4.    The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate,
LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread
applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
5.    Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
Page  12
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six months'
notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis shall
become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the
Loan.
C.    Repayment
1.    Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C,
the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December
15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on
the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount
would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be
payable after December 15, 2011, the Borrower shall be also pay
on said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.    After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization
schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods, Works and Printing Services
Part A:     General
      Goods, works and Printing Services shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent
or more each.
      (b)   Two-stage bidding procedure
      The bidding procedure for textbooks, teacher guides and
classroom libraries shall be carried out in two stages in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the
Guidelines.
      (c)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
Page  13
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.      National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more per
contract shall, and Printing Services estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $250,000 per contract, but $50,000
equivalent or more, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$1,100,000 equivalent may, be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines. In the procurement of works and Printing
Services in accordance with this paragraph, the Borrower shall
use standard bidding documents approved by the Bank.
2.    International or National Shopping
      Goods and Printing Services, estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to aggregate amounts not to
exceed: (a) $900,000 equivalent in the case of goods (other
than vehicles and computer hardware and software); (b) $60,000
equivalent in the case of vehicles; (c) $40,000 equivalent in
the case of computer hardware and software; and (d) $600,000
equivalent in the case of Printing Services, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of international or
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Procurement of Small Works
      Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation
for the required work, and who has the experience and resources
to complete the contract successfully.
4.    Direct Contracting
      Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract and to be carried out in schools in
distant rural areas, costing $2,100,000 equivalent or less in
the aggregate and school furniture for such schools, estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $2,000 per contract and
costing less than the equivalent of $30,000 in the aggregate,
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods, works and Printing
Services shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to: (a) each contract: (i)  to be awarded
pursuant to the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section; and
Page  14
(ii) for works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more;
(b) the first two contracts for: (i) works estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $500,000; and (ii) Printing
Services, to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:  (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to:  (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.    Special Provisions
A.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following
principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of goods, works and Printing Services referred to
in Parts B.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to:
      (a)   have a local representative for purposes of
submitting bids;
      (b)   be registered with local authorities as a
prerequisite for bidding; and
      (c)   be associated with local contractors or suppliers.
2.    Bids may be:
      (a)   submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening,
either by mail or courier or in person; and
      (b)   accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount
specified in the standard bidding documents.
3.    No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid
Page  15
opening.
4.    No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition
to award a contract.
5.    Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has
been evaluated as the lowest responsive bid, in accordance with
criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding documents.
6.    After contract award, performance securities shall be
provided within the time period, and in form and amount
specified in the standard bidding documents.
B.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following
principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of goods, works and Printing Services referred to
in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.    Bids may be:
      (a)   submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening,
either by mail or courier or in person; and
      (b)   accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount
specified in the standard bidding documents.
2.    No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid
opening.
3.    No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition
to award a contract.
4.    Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has
been evaluated as the lowest responsive bid, in accordance with
criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding documents.
5.    Contracts for civil works shall provide for mobilization
advances, whenever appropriate.
6.    After contract award, performance securities shall be
provided within the time period and in the form and amount
specified in the standard bidding documents.
7.    Price adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank, may
be included in work contracts.
C.    In addition to and without limitation to any other
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants
Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services
referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.    Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
      (a)   be locally registered as a condition of participation
in the selection process;
      (b)   give any participation in or share of any consulting
contracts to any local firm or person for the purposes of
participating in the selection process or receiving an award,
except in connection with a joint venture arrangement where:
(i) a sufficient number of capable domestic firms or individual
consultants exist to allow a foreign consultant reasonable
freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of either party to the
joint venture arrangement will not be constrained by any
prescribed manner or extent of participation; and (iii) the
foreign consultant is not required to associate itself with any
specific named domestic firms or individual consultants;
      (c)   furnish any certificate issued by a local authority
about their legal capacity or tax status for the purposes of
submitting a proposal; and
Page  16
      (d)   personally submit their proposals.
2.    Consultants shall be selected from a short list of firms
invited to submit proposals on the basis of terms of reference,
employment conditions and evaluation criteria clearly set forth
in the respective letter of invitation.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
the amount of $750,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed $5,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit  into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment
                   is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures. All such
Page  17
                   deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                   the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                   Categories, and in the respective equivalent
                   amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                   documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Page  18
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
