                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 25769

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-39940)

                                             ON A

                                            LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35.0 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                            FOR A BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT




                                          5/10/2003




Human Development Sector Management Group
Country Management Unit for Central America
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective October 20, 2002)

                                 Currency Unit = Balboa
                                        B/1.00 = US$ 1.00
                                     US$ 1.00 = B/1.00

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 to    December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEFACEI  Community and Family Center for Initial Education (Centro Familiar y Comunitario
         de Educación Inicial)
EMIS     Education Management Information System
FIS      Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social)
GOP      Government of Panama
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IFARHU   Institute for Training and Progress in Human Resources (Instituto para la Formación
         y Aprovechamiento de Recursos Humanos)
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
MEDUC    Ministry of Education
MOF      Ministry of Finance
NGO      Non-governmental Organization
OAS      Organization of American States
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PSR      Project Summary Report
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SINECE   National Evaluation System of Educational Quality (Sistema Nacional de Evaluacion
         de la Calidad Educativa)




                               Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                             Country Director:    Jane Armitage
                       Country Sector Leader:      Helena Ribe
                              Sector Manager:     Marito Garcia
                           Task Team Leader:      Carlos Rojas

                                           PANAMA
                              BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            39

Project ID: P007832                                                      Project Name: PA - BASIC EDUCATION
                                                                         PROJECT
Team Leader: Carlos A. Rojas                                             TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: May 15, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: PA - BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                             L/C/TF Number: SCL-39940
   Country/Department: PANAMA                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (73%), Secondary education (8%), Central
                            government administration (9%), Pre-primary education (10%),
                            Tertiary education (0%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (P); Civic engagement, participation and
                            community driven development (P); Child health (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/15/1995                                        Effective: 07/26/1996              08/26/1996
   Appraisal:    10/11/1995                                            MTR: 07/19/1999                10/10/1999
    Approval:    03/28/1996                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               10/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF PANAMA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            David De Ferranti                                   Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:           Jane Armitage                                       Edilberto L. Segura
Sector Manager:            Marito H. Garcia                                    Kye Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:        Carlos A. Rojas                                     Clemencia Chiappe
ICR Primary Author:        Angela Demas


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to: (a) improve the quality
of basic education in the borrower's territory; (b) improve equity of access to preschool education and basic
education for children in rural and poor urban areas; (c) expand the coverage of preschool education
through community operated non-formal administrative models; and (d) strengthen the planning, financial,
supervision and policy-making capacity of the Ministry of Education (MEDUC).

3.2 Revised Objective:

No revisions were made to project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$58.0 million of which US$35.0 million would be financed by
the loan and US$23.0 million by the Government. The project comprised three components:

Component I: Improvement of Quality and Expansion of Access to Primary and Lower Secondary
Education (US$44.41 million or 77 percent of total project costs) included:

(a) the provision of in-service teacher training with an emphasis on multigrade teaching techniques for
    primary education teachers;

(b) the provision of basic education textbooks, classroom supplies, and educational and instructional
    materials for the poor;

(c) redesign of the scholarship program for primary and secondary education;

(d) development and implementation of a student assessment system for basic education; and,

(e) rehabilitation and maintenance of educational infrastructure and development and carrying out of a
    pilot program involving community participation in the rehabilitation and maintenance of schools for
    Primary Education.

Component II: Expansion of Non-formal Preschool Education (US$5.69 million or 10 percent)
included:

(a) The CEFACEI (Family and Community Education Center) Program: the expansion of preschool
    education coverage through community-operated non-formal administrative models through, inter alia,
    the strengthening of the Borrower's program for community and family centers;

(b) the implementation of a Mother-to-Mother (Madre-a-Madre) pilot program for the training of mothers
    and families in child development; and

(c) Radio Programs: development of a public education program through mass media to reinforce the
    training of volunteers and parents on issues concerning preschool education.

Component III: Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Education (US$7.90 million or 13
percent) included:


                                                     - 2 -

(a) Strengthening of the planning, financial, supervision and policy-making capacity of MEDUC;

(b) Development and implementation of a Management Information System (MIS) for MEDUC; and

(c) Administration, monitoring, evaluation and auditing of the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

None of the components were revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory.

The objectives of the project were fully consistent with the Panama Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
(February 7, 1995) effective at the time of entry, which adopted a selective strategy focused on reviving
sustainable growth and poverty alleviation. Additionally, the Bank's policy for human resource
development prioritized expanding coverage and improving the quality of basic education in Panama. This
corresponded with the Government's recently approved ten year plan for education which emphasized
primary education and expanding preschool education, particularly in rural areas. The project served as an
immediate response to the Government's 10-Year Education Plan.

The Bank team took into consideration that this would be Panama's first education loan ever, and made
sure to keep the design of the project simple with carefully crafted, straight forward components and
sufficient support to government during implementation. Despite the economic constraints the country was
facing, it was apparent that the government and local stakeholders were sufficiently committed to the
project and were involved in the overall design. Government counterpart funds were pledged to fully
support the scholarship subcomponent, the honorarium for the promotoras (promoters/teachers) of the
CEFACEI and Mother-to-Mother programs, and the traditional percentage to be covered in complement to
the loan funds. The Bank team made a reasonable assumption that this commitment would endure despite
the economic constraints, as the activities to be supported by the project were integral to achieving
objectives of the national education strategy.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The Project objectives established in the SAR continue to be as relevant today as they were when the
project commenced. They also continue to be consistent with the overall education policies currently being
implemented by MEDUC in order to improve the quality and coverage of the basic education system. The
four main objectives of the project were satisfactorily achieved, and they are addressed individually below.

(a) Improve the quality of basic education

The Ministry's strategy to target the poorest, rural areas and concentrate efforts to improve the quality of
basic education in those areas was achieved. The project successfully established and institutionalized
within the MEDUC a specific in-service teacher training program for rural, multigrade teachers using
methodologies addressing the real needs of the teachers. For the first time in Panama, teachers have been



                                                      - 3 -

trained in active teaching strategies that are relevant to the school environment and children's needs. As an
effect of the training, teachers are able to spend more time on direct learning activities rather than
administrative and managerial tasks as before. The educational materials provided as well as the
multigrade methodology by nature, improves time on task in the classroom. These efforts have improved
the quality of instruction in the classroom and should have an impact on student learning, although this has
not been assessed yet.

The assessment system that was developed and implemented in the early years of the project successfully
produced two evaluations of student assessments, however, these results did not span a sufficient number
of years to determine differences in student achievement scores attributable to implementation of the
project. (Further support for development and institutionalization of the assessment system are currently
being provided with IDB support.) We assume that provision of libraries, textbooks, student guides, and
better trained teachers are undoubtedly linked to improvements in the quality of basic education that
children are now receiving in Panama, particularly in the targeted poorest 185 corregimientos. It is also
assumed that the successful provision of more than 2300 classrooms has offered a much better learning
environment which would positively affect student achievement.

For early childhood education, the social assessment carried out on the program clearly established through
interviews that mothers were satisfied with the changes in their behavior towards child rearing practices as
well as the resulting affects on the well-being of their children as a consequence of their participation in the
Madre-a-Madre program. Similarly, it also revealed that teachers see significant differences in
achievement and school readiness between students who have been enrolled in a CEFACEI program and
those who have started first grade without the preschool experience.

(b) Improve equity of access to preschool education and basic education for children in rural and
    poor urban areas

Data collected by the statistics department of the MEDUC suggests that there was a decrease in the
repetition rate for basic education between 1998 and 2001 for boys and girls in the poorest 185
corregimientos of the country. Similarly, the drop out rate remains low in Panama at about 2.2 overall and
for the poorest 185 corregimientos about 2.6. The gender gap for drop outs in 2001 in the poorest
corregimientos is less than 0.1 percentage point. (2001 provides the latest statistics available.)

Repetition rates for the whole country as well as the 185 poorest corregimientos has decreased
significantly. In the SAR the repetition rate for the country was recorded as 10.4 percent (1993) and it now
measures 6.8 (2001), a decrease of almost 35 percent. While the difference between the richest and poorest
corregimientos still exists, measurements between 1998 and 2001 indicate that this may be narrowing. In
1998 the difference in repetition rate between the country overall and the poorest 185 corregimientos was 2
percentage points. In 2001, the gap narrowed to 1.1 percentage points. The decrease in repetition for the
poorest corregimientos is significant at a decrease from 11.8 to 9.0 or 24 percent in 2001 for boys and a
decrease from 9.3 to 6.7 or 28 percent for girls. Overall, the decrease for both boys and girls in the poorest
corregimientos was approximately 26 percent versus 20 percent for all children in basic education from
1998 to 2001.

Statistics from MEDUC show that enrollment of primary school students across the country has increased
from 1993 to 2001 by about 31,000 students, and it has also increased by about 1,700 for children in the
poorest 185 corregimientos. MEDUC statistics also illustrate a decrease in enrollment for students in the
poorest corregimientos from perhaps a high point in 1998 to 2001, but the enrollment rates are still higher
than those recorded before project implementation. The reliability of the data on enrollment, however, is


                                                       - 4 -

questionable. The decrease in enrollment from 1998 to 2001 for the poorest corregimientos could be
attributed to rural - urban migration or a variety of other factors.

(c) Expand the coverage of preschool education through community operated non-formal
     administrative models

More than 35,220 children ages four and five have benefitted from the non-formal early childhood
education program supported by the project. During project preparation it was established that there were
close to 1,600 children enrolled in 88 CEFACEIs located in rural and urban marginal areas. Additionally,
there were 33,000 children enrolled in Jardines de Infancia (regular preschool) in Panama. Under the
project this number has grown significantly with the establishment of 252 new CEFACEIs which have
doubled the number of children enrolled in preschool in the country. The project has also brought
preschool education to the poorest, rural areas of Panama where it had never been offered before.

(d) Strengthen the planning, financial, supervision and policy-making capacity of MEDUC.

This objective was partially achieved. Support was provided to MEDUC at the central and local levels
through delivery of several seminars and training, but not to the extent originally envisioned.
Decentralization, as such, was not a priority after the administration changed in year 2000. Where the
objective was more satisfactorily achieved was through the successful support to the design and
improvement of the Education Management Information System (EMIS), and the training of PCU staff and
staff at the provincial level in administrative procedures, where the bulk of resources for achieving this
objective were allocated from the start.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: Improvement of Quality and Expansion of Access to Primary and Lower Secondary
Education
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component was successful in assisting the Government to reduce the inequalities in the content and
quality of public education and expand access to basic education for the disadvantaged, by (i) providing
in-service teacher training in multigrade teaching techniques, (ii) reorienting the existing scholarship
program to be based on financial need rather than academic achievement, (iii) providing textbooks and
teaching materials to student in poorest corregimientos, (iv) rehabilitating school infrastructure, and (iv)
providing school furniture to targeted poor schools.

Analysis by subcomponent:

(a) Provision of In-service Teacher Training in Multigrade Teaching Techniques for Primary
     Education Teachers

The project has surpassed the original goal of providing multigrade, in-service teacher training to over
3,800 teachers in a variety of themes specifically designed for multigrade teaching. As a result, all rural
teachers are directly applying their new skills in multigrade teaching techniques and using tools and
technical materials developed under the project to assist them in the classroom.




                                                      - 5 -

By the end of the first year of the project, 166 teachers from 78 multigrade schools that had been selected
to participate in a pilot for active teaching in community schools (called "Escuela Nueva, Escuela Activa")
had been trained. Additionally, 35 specialists completed training in the design of student learning guides
and over the course of the project applied these skills by developing learning guides in Spanish,
mathematics, social sciences, and social studies.

In 1999, about 355 teachers from one-classroom schools (unigrados) benefitted from the training in the use
and management of school libraries and textbooks. Each received their own library with educational
materials and textbooks and are utilizing them as resources in the classroom.

The second phase of training focused on rural teachers of multigrade schools. Over 4,100 teachers have
benefitted from the training which covered, among others, the following areas: (i) active classroom
teaching methodologies, (ii) use of learning guides and lesson planning; (ii) use of textbooks and
educational libraries; (iii) supervision of multigrade classrooms; and (iv) design and use of didactic
materials. The multigrade training also benefitted the supervisors, regional directors, and technical
personnel from the Ministry of Education who also participated in the sessions.

While it was originally planned that the project would support development and training in the use of
activity cards for multigrade teaching, this subcomponent was adapted to meet the changing philosophy of
the Ministry of Education and support development, printing and training for teachers in the use of student
guides (rather than activity cards) which had proven more successful in multigrade teaching. The design,
validation and printing of the student guides is an invaluable product that was not established during the
conception of the project, but was added later as this material is of paramount value in multigrade settings
prevailing in most rural areas of Panama. All multigrade schools received student learning guides in the
areas of mathematics and Spanish for the second, third, and fourth grades.

(b) Provision of basic education textbooks, classroom supplies, and educational and instructional
     materials for the poor

All multigrade schools (2,195), all one-classroom schools (355), and all regular primary schools of the 185
poorest corregimientos (counties) have received small, classroom libraries and didactic materials. These
libraries contain 53 titles and include reading books, textbooks and guides in a variety of subject areas,
reference books, and other complementary materials. These same schools also received bookcases and
didactic materials such as logic blocks/games, maps, globes, science supplements including posters with the
muscular and skeletal structure of the human body. It is estimated that approximately 210,000 primary
school children at these particular schools have already benefitted from the use of these additional
educational materials and classroom libraries. In total, the establishment of 4,800 classroom libraries at
poor, rural, multigrade and one-classroom primary schools was achieved under the project.

The project also outfitted 142 middle schools in the poorest 185 corregimientos with libraries containing,
among others: reading and reference books, cultural materials, and learning software. Each library
consisted of 44 titles.

As mentioned earlier, student guides (cartillas) for use in multigrade classrooms were developed, printed
and distributed under the project in place of activity cards. At project-end, approximately, 184,000
cartillas for second to sixth grade in Spanish, mathematics, natural sciences, and social studies are being
utilized in the classroom by children in the poorest areas of Panama.




                                                      - 6 -

It is worth mentioning that beyond providing pedagogical materials, this subcomponent was able to make
significant change in the way that rural education was approached in Panama. The traditional way of
teaching and use of materials commonly seen in regular, one-grade classrooms was transformed into the
use of modern, multigrade methodologies and learning materials. Panama now has a core group of
teaching specialists trained in the development of these types of multigrade materials and not only are these
materials now utilized in every multigrade school, but every multigrade teacher has been trained in their use
in the classroom.

(c) Redesign of the scholarship program for primary and secondary education.

Before the Basic Education Project, Panama's scholarship program had been designed to award
scholarships based on academic merit alone. It was recognized that the scholarships were not benefitting
the disadvantaged and not helping to provide opportunity for children who needed it the most. Under the
project, the scholarship program was successfully reorganized to award scholarships to the neediest
children in the poorest corregimientos in the country, for the purpose of helping to reduce the dropout and
repetition rates given the lack of economic resources characteristic of families in these areas. Eligibility
criteria were used to help assess which students within the 185 poorest corregimientos should be awarded
scholarships. Each scholarship was provided to the recipient student for a duration of three years provided
that the student continued to be enrolled in the school and attended classes regularly.

This subcomponent was completely funded by counterpart funds and managed by the Government's
Institute for Training and Progress in Human Resources (IFARHU). By project end, IFARHU, had
awarded nearly 18,500 scholarships to students in 1,656 primary schools and 5,000 scholarships to
students attending 185 middle schools. The total amount of resources invested in the scholarships,
US$17.61 million, exceeded the original amount of US$12.58 million which was a decision of the
Government given the importance of the scholarships and the impact in the targeted communities. The loan
supported an evaluation of a cohort of scholarship recipients to determine the utility and effectiveness of the
scholarships, as well as an analysis of the characteristics of recipients. The study confirmed that
scholarships have been awarded to those students in the targeted 185 corregimientos. They were well
targeted and the recipient students have remained in school. Given the success of the reorganized
scholarship program, the Government is continuing to finance scholarships for students in the poorest
corregimientos and has pledged again to continue finance scholarships completely with counterpart funds
under Panama's Second Basic Education Project.

(d) Development and implementation of a student assessment system for basic education.

During 1997 and 1998 the project contributed to the design and implementation of the National Assessment
System (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de la Calidad Educativa - SINECE). In 1997, all students
(132,000) from third, sixth, ninth, and twelfth grades were tested in mathematics, language, social studies,
and natural sciences. In 1998, this was followed up with an evaluation of a sampling of sixth, ninth and
twelfth grade students (12,500) from urban and rural schools. They were tested in math, language, and
science. A report on the results of each evaluation was produced. This report marked the first time that the
Ministry could present results at the national and provincial levels on student achievement. The items
developed for the assessments could eventually feed into an item bank of test questions. Overall, the results
showed low performance on the language and mathematics tests. In both years, urban students
outperformed their peers in rural areas, and there was no significant difference in achievement between
boys and girls.




                                                     - 7 -

Despite significant progress in the implementation of the assessment system, the Ministry of Education
never institutionalized it. On two separate occasions the evaluation group, which had been carefully
selected and trained, was dismantled without technical justification. Due to this situation and the lack of
action from the Ministry, the Bank decided not to continue the financing of any further assessment rounds.
Another reason to reallocate the remaining resources away from this subcomponent was that the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) had begun working with the government in this same area. It
was not seen as necessary to continue due to the possibility of overlapping with IDB. At present, no new
assessment measurements have been carried out, however, further training in assessments has been
delivered under IDBs project.

(e) Rehabilitation and maintenance of educational infrastructure and development and carrying out of
    a pilot program involving community participation in the rehabilitation and maintenance of
    schools for Primary Education.

This subcomponent was efficiently implemented and achieved highly satisfactory results. One of the main
objectives of this subcomponent was to replace as many "escuelas ranchos" (hut-type schools) as possible.
At project completion, 336 rehabilitation projects which translates to 2,325 classrooms (equivalent to the
2,572 initially planned) had been completed in the regions of Bocas del Toro, Chiriqui, Cocle, Colón,
Darien, Herrera, Los Santos, Veraguas, Panamá, and San Blas. As planned, MEDUC implemented school
maintenance training programs for targeted communities and school staff. These trainings offered basic
technical knowledge on how to maintain and enhance their schools in order to sustain the improvements and
keep schools functioning properly.




                     Before                                                After




                                                    - 8 -

Component II: Expansion of Non-formal Preschool Education.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component successfully improved the quality and expanded the coverage of non-formal, preschool
education to the poor. Additionally, it improved child-rearing practices by providing mothers and families
in rural areas of scattered and isolated populations with awareness, training and the opportunity to learn
and practice improved child-rearing practices.

Analysis by subcomponent:

(a) The CEFACEI (Family and Community Education Center) Program: the expansion of preschool
    education coverage through community-operated non-formal administrative models through,
    inter alia, the strengthening of the Borrower's program for community and family centers.

This subcomponent has superseded its original goal of expanding coverage to some 20,000 poor, rural
children in the form of non-formal preschool education. About 30,200 children, ages four and five years
old, have benefitted from the 252 new CEFACEIs established during the lifetime of the project. The
CEFACEIs enroll an average of 17 children per center, about 56 percent of the children enrolled are 5-year
olds and 44 percent are 4-year olds. Statistics from MEDUC illustrate that on average, only about 1.8
percent of the students drop out each year. Illness or excessive distance from the child's home to the center
are reasons given for dropping out. A social assessment of the program indicated that parents value their
children's achievements in social behavior, acquisition of learning skills, as well as the nutritional meal
provided by the center. They also value their own learning from the parent workshops, which enables them
to teach their children.

School furniture for students (tables, chairs, desks), as well as other classroom teaching aides (blackboards,
watercolors, scissors, stationery, pencils) were purchased and distributed to all 252 CEFACEIs.
Additionally, all of the CEFACEI teachers have received training provided by the technical team from the
Ministry of Education, as well as from staff trained at the provincial level. Materials and follow-up
training have also been provided. As a result of the activities conducted under this project, MEDUC now
has a set of high quality curriculum materials that have been designed and validated with the local
promoters. Overall this subcomponent was implemented in a satisfactory manner.

(b) The implementation of a Mother-to-Mother pilot program for the training of mothers and
    families in child development.

This subcomponent, implemented as a pilot program, was very successful in reaching into the remote, rural
areas of the country where there were not sufficient numbers of children to establish a CEFACEI and no
school existed. The initial goal was to train 300 madres animadoras (mother's group leaders) who would
cover approximately 2,400 children under the age of six. While, at the project close the pilot successfully
trained 116 madres animadoras, it benefitted a much larger number of children (5,220) than the original
target. It is also important to emphasize that once the madres animadoras complete their work in a
particular community (a cycle is two years, meeting continuously once a week), she then moves on to
another community in the same corregimiento to nurture a new community. In that way, the 116 mothers
have provided training and guidance to no less than two communities during the life of the project. Each
community is then in a position to continue on its own after the two year cycle.




                                                      - 9 -

All of the madres animadoras participated in a five-day training twice a year in areas emphasizing early
childhood development, including such themes as: (i) growth and development; (ii) cognitive,
psycho-social, and motor-skills development; and (iii) health and nutrition. Additionally, mothers plus
communities benefitted from training provided in construction and maintenance of latrines and sanitary
facilities, reproductive health, and potable water. To assist the madres animadoras, the program provided
six educational units for each mother; 54 lesson plans for the family; six books for each child ages four to
six years old and promotional material. This validated curriculum material is a very important product of
this subcomponent that the MEDUC can use for future training of communities in child rearing.

(c) Radio Programs: development of a public education program through mass media to reinforce
    the training of volunteers and parents on issues concerning preschool education.

This subcomponent was completed in a highly satisfactory manner. It developed and produced 40
programs, each 10 minutes in length. These programs were broadcast at a national and regional level
through nine radio stations. As a result of the success of the messages produced, the government
reproduced, with the help of the Bank project and NGOs that donated cassettes, the 40 programs about
early childhood care and packaged them in a set of five cassettes so madres animadoras and promotoras
could use them at any point in time to supplement their sessions with mothers and children. This enabled
the government to widen the possibility of transmitting child care messages to a larger audience with the
help of radio broadcasts as well as directly through the madres animadoras. The technical group at the
central level trained groups of promotoras from CEFACEI and madres animadoras from Madre-a-Madre
about utilizing the radio programs in their educational activities with their respective groups of parents.
Additionally, the project supported the design of a methodological guide to orient and educate users in the
application of these materials.

Component III: Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Education
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

(a) Strengthening of the planning, financial, supervision and policy-making capacity of MEDUC.

This subcomponent partially achieved its initial goals. Under the project several seminars and workshops
were financed in order to enhance the planning and managerial capacity of the Ministry of Education at the
central and provincial levels. With the change in administration in early 2000, the Ministry showed more
interest in development of the MIS system as a planning tool rather than strengthening its financial,
supervision and policy-making capacity at the central and provincial levels. In order to respond to the new
administration's goal, the Bank decided to focus more on the development of the Education Management
Information System (EMIS) subcomponent, as a means of strengthening the planning, financial,
supervision, and policy-making capacity of MEDUC.

(b) Development and implementation of a Management Information System (MIS) for MEDUC.

Design and installation of the framework and initial software modules for the Management Information
System (MIS) for the Ministry of Education has been completed satisfactorily. Development of the
subsystem for the management of statistical data collected by MEDUC was completed and eight of nine
regions have now been linked with the central Ministry databases for ease in exchange of information and
data analysis. With resources from the project, several software applications were developed. The database
handled by the Ministry of Education has been updated and technical support was provided to the local
team in charge of the information system. Computers (155), servers (18), printers (105) and other
hardware (111 UPS, 30 HUBS, etc.) were provided at the central, as well as provincial level. Additionally,


                                                    - 10 -

the project supported the training of staff in the use of hardware and software and on issues related to the
connection (network) of the provinces with the central level. Training was also provided in the use and
application of the software packages which included: Office automation; ORACLE; powerbuilder;
Microsoft Project; antivirus software; SPSS, Systat, Microcat, etc.

Along with the purchase and development of hardware and software systems, the project supported the
physical upgrading of the Statistical Department of MEDUC in order for the center to have adequate power
capabilities, physical facilities, and proper security. Currently, the Ministry at the regional and central
levels are applying the new software for purposes of information gathering and analysis in the areas of:
planning and tracking purchases for MEDUC; school mapping; and human resources.

The implementation of this component showed that the activities planned were more complex than
originally anticipated. The lack of experienced information technology experts in the Ministry affected the
pace of implementation associated with the different tasks under this subcomponent. Some took longer
than anticipated. The management information system continues to be developed and expanded in terms of
design of new modules and training in the latest software as part of the new Second Basic Education
Project which became effective in June 2001.

(c) Administration, monitoring, evaluation and auditing of the project.

The project supported MEDUC to develop and improve its project management capacity through the
creation of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that worked closely together with the functional units of the
Ministry which were directly involved in implementation of the project components.

Even though this was MEDUC's first Bank project, the unit (PCU) established was highly successful in
contributing to the implementation of most of the activities of the project by providing smooth coordination.
The unit benefitted by having from the beginning a dynamic and proactive director, a solid financial
management team and a highly qualified procurement officer. This contributed to the fast paced
implementation, particularly during the first two years of the project's life.

When the new administration assumed power in Panama, changes in key personnel of the unit (new
Director and dismissal of procurement officer without qualified replacement) significantly affected the
dynamics of the unit. The management style of the director did not support communication among staff
and departments in MEDUC. Additionally, project funds were disbursed at a much slower rate due to
personnel changes and factors beyond the PCUs control such as the increased role of the National
Comptroller's office (Contraloria) to authorize contracts and payments.

Several consultants contracted by the PCU conducted evaluations of the project components and key
activities (impact, achievement of main targets). Although there are factors that restricted the quality of the
evaluations conducted, namely a lack of evaluation experience in the education sector in Panama and few
qualified evaluators, the results proved to be useful, especially in terms of executing the activities in the last
stages of the project and designing and implementing the new education project currently being
implemented.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The SAR estimated a social Internal Rate of Return (IRR). Expected benefits were projected to be an
increase in future earnings due to improved productivity, especially for children from low-income families
and rural areas. Additionally, it was expected that the project would produce benefits that would accrue to



                                                      - 11 -

society at large beyond the project beneficiaries, contributing to poverty alleviation most notably in rural
areas.

At the time the SAR was prepared, savings from the preschool component were estimated based on the
average annual cost per formal preschool child (US$288) in comparison with average annual costs per
child in the CEFACEI program (US$124) and Mother-to-Mother program (US$243). The Project
Coordination Unit calculated the actual cost per child for the two alternative types of preschools based on
program expenditures. The cost per child attending the CEFACEI program is US$89 per year and includes
materials, equipment and payment of the promotora. The cost per child for those attended by the mother
participants in the Mother-to-Mother program is US$43. According to the Comptroller General's
Department for Statistics and Census, for year 2001, the cost per child at a formal preschool was
US$401.87. Based on these unit costs the potential savings exceeded that which was estimated in the SAR.
If the 30,200 children from CEFACEI and 5,220 from Mother-to-Mother programs had attended a regular
preschool, the cost would have been near US$14 million rather than the actual which was approximately
US$2.9 million for a savings in the area of US$11 million rather than the US$3.6 million savings originally
estimated.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No financial rate of return was calculated for the project. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimated that
additional recurrent expenditures to be generated by the project activities is small and could be easily
absorbed by MEDUC. After project implementation, a yearly average of recurrent costs generated by the
project amounts to about 0.7 percent of the MEDUC's recurrent cost budget.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Even though one of the subcomponents within the Institutional Strengthening Component of the project fell
short of achieving its initial goals, the institutional development impact of the project has had some striking
results in the Ministry of Education and can be rated satisfactory. The project successfully developed a
system of in-service teacher training that includes delivery of a sequence of modules with follow up training
rather than the old system of an isolated training with little if any follow up. There are personnel within the
Ministry of Education that are now fully skilled in designing effective in-service training modules to meet
the needs of the teachers.

A major impact of the project in terms of institutional development has been the institutionalization of the
Early Childhood Education Department in the MEDUC. It has developed from a small unit conducting
pilot projects to a very visible, important part of MEDUC with a defined strategy and specialized
personnel.

The project has also created a closer relationship between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Education. Regular meetings with the Ministry of Finance to request resources or evaluate the use of
resources are now part of the Ministry of Education's agenda. Due to the project's infrastructure
component, there is also a strong relationship between the Ministry of Education's Department of
Infrastructure and the Social Investment Fund (FIS). During project preparation, it was agreed with
MEDUC to include FIS as the executing agency for the infrastructure component due to its proven
experience on implementing community developed projects and school infrastructure. Previously,
construction and rehabilitation under the MEDUC worked in isolation with very limited resources. The
close working relationship established with FIS allows for the provision of better supervision and quality in
the execution of works.



                                                        - 12 -

One area where the project lacked sustainable impact was the institutionalization of the national assessment
system, even though two measurements took place during the lifetime of the project. It was beyond the
Bank's or project's control to maintain the local team that had been specifically trained in assessment
techniques, item banking design, sampling procedures, and item analysis through support of the project.
The Ministry's dissolving of the team prevented retention of the skills that had been developed to assist
MEDUC to build their national assessment system.

With further development of the in-service teacher training program and delivery mechanisms, expansion of
the CEFACEI and Home-based Early Childhood Education programs, support to institutional
strengthening through augmentation of the EMIS, and rehabilitation of schools that will continue under the
Second Basic Education Project, additional institutional gains can be expected.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Overall, the project was implemented smoothly and for most of the implementation period it was ahead of
schedule despite an economic recession and crisis, in general, facing the country. The change in
government administration (early 2000) led to a slow down in implementation during the transition period
and more cumbersome administrative procedures. This, however, did not affect the project in terms of
satisfactorily achieving the objectives and fulfilling the outcomes and outputs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Procedures for utilization of resources from the Special Account and from the government counterpart
funds became unnecessarily complex under the new administration. Legal changes required all contracts
over US$10,000 to pass through the National Comptrollers office for approval. This delayed the signing of
contracts during the last year of the project and contributed to the need to extend the closing date by a few
months.

Additionally, the Institutional Strengthening Component became more difficult to implement because of the
different priorities of the new administration. There was no keen interest in promoting decentralization,
therefore, the project adapted to focus more on the Management Information System part of this component
in response to the Government goals. It could be said that the new administration's position will slow the
Ministry of Education's ability to strengthen and modernize itself.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

As this was the first Bank loan in education, the Minister gave careful attention and importance to putting
together a well qualified team to carry out the functions of the Project Coordination Unit. From
effectiveness the team was able to work well with the Ministry department heads who were responsible for
project implementation and had been active during project preparation. The result was good
implementation of project activities during most of the project life.

Under the new administration, changes in key personnel resulted in a deterioration in communication, in
general, between involved parties including: the PCU Coordinator and authorities in Ministry of Education,
as well as the Comptrollers office. A slow down in execution of the project resulted. Additionally,
dismissal of the Procurement Officer a year before the closing of the project slowed implementation of final
activities. This position was never filled and there was not a qualified replacement when the project ended.


                                                      - 13 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$58.0 million, of which the Bank loan would finance
US$35.0 million and the Government would contribute US$23.0 million. By project closing, the Bank
contribution amounted to US$35.0 million and the Borrower's to US$24.36 million. The disbursement
pace was steady from the very beginning of implementation and only slowed after the transition with the
new administration. As noted earlier, funds were shifted away from some subcomponents (student
assessments and some areas of institutional capacity) in response to the government's shift in strategy and
interest in investment. For Component I - Improvement in quality and access to basic education, this
resulted in a reshuffling of resources to the other subcomponents but not a significant increase in loan funds
overall to this component which stayed steady at a total of about US$27 million in loan funds. Government
was able to contribute more than originally estimated to the scholarship program (increase from US$12.58
to US$17.61 million), partially from the savings associated with the CEFACEI program. While this
preschool program was able to expand to reach about a third more children than anticipated, less
promotoras were needed than estimated at appraisal. This provided a savings for government related to
recurrent costs that would have covered honorarium for promotoras and madres animadoras, translating
into about US$3.2 million that was channeled to support the quality and access activities.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

ICR Rating: Highly Likely

It is very likely that the achievements under each component of the project will be sustained. The best
indication for sustainability is that the Government now has developed and is implementing a Second Basic
Education Project that builds upon the foundations established by the key components and activities of this
project. This includes provision of textbooks, in-service teacher training, further expansion of CEFACEIs
and home-based early childhood education, continuation of the EMIS, scholarships, and school
rehabilitation for the remaining schools in the poorest areas of Panama.

Undoubtedly one of the components where sustainability is more likely is the CEFACEI, as it has already
been institutionalized and mainstreamed into the Ministry of Education. CEFACEI and Mother-to-Mother
Units in the Ministry of Education have been strengthened and receive recognition of their achievements.
Development and use of multigrade methodologies in in-service teacher training is now also
institutionalized.

Maintenance procedures and community involvement in the care of school buildings has been developed.
Training is provided to communities in basic technology for maintenance in order to encourage the
communities to contribute to the sustainability of their school structures that have been rehabilitated by the
project.

Additionally, the Government demonstrated its commitment to finance scholarships targeted to children in
the poorest corregimientos of Panama by fully funding this initiative with counterpart funds. The
government invested more in scholarships than originally planned under the Basic Education Project and is
continuing to fund scholarships solely with counterpart funds under the new Second Basic Education
Project. IFARHU continues to manage the scholarship program for the Ministry of Education as it has for
over ten years.



                                                     - 14 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

As mentioned before, most of the components of this project serve as the foundation and will continue as
part of the Second Basic Education Project. This is evidence that the activities are becoming part of the
regular operation of MEDUC. The nature of the project and activities financed by the project is such that
activities are taken on as part of the normal operations of the functional areas within the Ministry.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Bank team engaged the
Government in a productive dialogue to jointly define the project objectives and the components. As this
was the first Bank loan to the education sector in Panama, and in keeping with lessons learned from past
projects in the region, the Bank focused on keeping the design of the project simple and clear. As one of
the Government and Bank priorities was poverty alleviation, the Bank team was careful to refine the
poverty index to narrow down broadly, classified geographical areas to more specific corregimientos
classified by poverty levels. This enabled the project to better identify and target specific pockets of the
most impoverished areas.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision of the project by the World Bank team can be rated highly satisfactory. No changes in the
Task Team Leader from effectiveness through to project closing provided the government with consistent
and high quality supervision over the life of the project. The Bank team kept in regular communication
with the PCU and ministry officials, as well as direct contact with the Minister and Vice Minister of
Education, providing adequate follow-up and guidance. During the first months of project execution, the
Bank arranged for key staff from the PCU to participate in training seminars that addressed procurement,
disbursement and financial matters. Knowing that the Bank loan was a first for the education sector in
Panama, the Bank team was careful to provide quality supervision and frequency of missions. On average
the team conducted supervision missions three times during the year and missions included relevant
consultant specialists to support and review government progress in implementation of the various
components. (Annex 4 gives more detail on the type of specialists accompanying the supervision missions.)
The team was quick to respond to changes brought about by a new government administration, and worked
closely with them to keep the project on track and moving towards achievement of the relevant objectives.
The Bank was pro-active in focusing attention on areas that supported the goals of the new government. It
was also quick to react to administrative, procedural and personnel changes introduced by the new
administration that had a slowing affect on the pace of implementation in the last year of the project. The
team worked closely with the new administration and new Project Coordinator and identified ways to keep
implementation of the last activities moving as planned.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the Bank's thorough and innovative approaches to lending and supervision of the Project, as
described above, overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank encouraged open dialogue and
communication with the client allowing for constant feedback and flexibility in responding to client needs.
The overall Bank performance and mutual trust developed between the client and the Bank team are factors
that contributed to the preparation, negotiation, and execution of the new education project currently under



                                                     - 15 -

implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Minister of Education was careful to appoint seasoned professionals to the team working
on preparation of the project. Rather than an establishing an implementation unit, MEDUC decided to
establish a project coordination unit that worked in close collaboration with the Bank team and functional
department heads of the ministry to design project components. The actual implementation would be
carried out by the functional areas of the Ministry, thus building their own capacity in the process and
enabling them to retain the skills in the Ministry to apply for implementation of future activities. The PCU
staff appointed to key positions - coordinator, procurement, finance, education quality, infrastructure -
were all well trained professionals able to provide valuable inputs into the preparation of the project.
Stakeholders, including teachers unions, universities, family associations and other community groups,
were widely consulted in the process of developing major policy proposals for the Education Law of 1995
and the 10-year Strategy for 1997-2006 which provided the initial foundation for the project components.
Additionally, teachers from all regions participated in the selection of textbooks to be supplied by the
project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall government implementation was satisfactory. There was a high commitment level from the
Minister of Education through to the Coordinator of the PCU and staff. The Ministry's dedication to the
project and achieving the objectives is evidenced by the project's rapid execution during the first three years
of implementation. Almost 70 percent of the project was completed by the year 2000. The change in
administration affected the pace of implementation that had been established in early years of the project as
can be common during a transition between governments. Despite the economic crisis confronting Panama
during the last four years, adequate counterpart funds were continually made available to support the
project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The Ministry of Education was careful to select well qualified and capable staff for key
positions in the PCU including financial, procurement, technical and managerial staff. This contributed to
the smooth implementation during most of the years of project execution. It is important to mention that
the progress reports, financial and auditing aspects required by the Bank were always well done and reports
delivered in a timely fashion.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on the above, the Borrower's overall performance is considered satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


The following lessons learned can be concluded from the project experience.

Project Design. The project design intentionally followed the lessons learned from prior education projects
implemented in Latin America by keeping project components simple and well-defined. This approach was
validated by the Borrower's sharp focus and ease of implementation of the components from the outset,



                                                     - 16 -

despite never having implemented a prior Bank project in the education sector. The implementation
experience generally yielded results that served to strengthen component design, achieve the development
objectives, and output indicators. The flexibility within components and ability to make changes during
execution (e.g. production of student multigrade guidebooks rather than activity cards; emphasis on EMIS
development for institutional strengthening) that were agreeable to both the government and the Bank, was
a central factor in maintaining project relevancy while supporting the evolving education strategy.

Continuity of Project Management. Successful implementation of the project is highly dependent on the
stability of key project management staff, both on the client and Bank sides.

Commitment and Interest of High Level Ministry Officials. Top Ministry officials participated in
policy decisions to facilitate implementation of the First Basic Education Project, as well as in the shaping
of strategies for conceptualization and preparation of the new Second Basic Education Project. It is also
important to have an administration that is willing to continue operations initiated by the former
government, not just for continuity in improving education quality, equity and access, but also for building
on improvements in the modernization and strengthening of the Ministry and implementing agency.

Targeting. Quality inputs such as textbooks and other classroom educational materials, a stimulating
home environment, and preschool educational experiences, have a powerful influence in improving school
performance. However, students in lower income families usually have no access to quality preschool
education programs or to necessary school materials and texts. As a consequence, their performance in
school is compromised. Project interventions to restore equity in access to quality education must be
carefully targeted to effectively provide equal educational opportunities to those students most in need of
assistance. The project's emphasis on specifically targeting the poorest areas within Panama and refining
the areas of poverty down to the neediest 185 corregimientos, enabled the project to impact areas where the
need was highest.

Community Participation. The project's support of parent and community participation in physical
maintenance of schools and in provision of non-formal preschool education services in rural and marginal
urban areas has shown that community involvement in the operation of schools adds an important
dimension to the effectiveness of publicly provided education by mobilizing local support for the schools
and increasing pride in achievement on the part of students and teachers.

Gradual Expansion of Non-formal Preschool. Experience shows that instead of moving to a massive
expansion of the project's less expensive, non-formal preschool model utilizing community participation,
there is a need to consolidate institutionalization of the program at the central and regional levels, while
building MEDUC's institutional capacity to follow up and promote the program among dispersed rural
populations that are difficult to reach. For this reason, a continued course of gradual expansion has been
chosen, aiming to reach the children in remote rural localities and marginal urban communities first under
the Second Basic Education Project.




                                                      - 17 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Evaluación de los Principales Logros del Proyecto de Educación Básica

Introducción. El Proyecto de Educación Básica concluye en octubre del 2002, con una cifra promedio de
3,899 docentes, cifra que resulta de la suma de las cantidades de docentes capacitados durante los años de
funcionamiento del Proyecto de Educación Básica dividido entre los 5 años en que recibieron capacitación
los docentes multigrado. Esto representa el 103%, lo que indica que se ha capacitado más de la meta
establecida en el SAR (3,800). Los eventos de capacitación que se dictaron durante toda la vigencia del
Proyecto fueron. "Nuevas Estrategias Pedagógicas" (4,080), "Uso de las Guías de Aprendizaje y Uso de los
libros de Texto, Organización y funcionamiento de las Bibliotecas Escolares y de Aulas" (5512 incluye
maestros multigrado y unigrado), "Manejo de Guías de Aprendizajes y Planeamiento de Clases" (3488),
"Atención Diferenciada, Elaboración y Uso de Materiales Didácticos" (3000) y "Planeamiento y
Fortalecimiento de los Componentes de Escuela Nueva- Escuela Activa" (3415). Para cada capacitación se
formaron facilitadores, encargados de ofrecer capacitación a los docentes durante las jornadas de verano.
Producción y distribución de más de 627,146 libros de texto, 91,459 guías de las asignaturas de español,
matemáticas, ciencias naturales y estudios sociales. Se distribuyeron 332,425 libros y materiales
educativos para las bibliotecas de aulas y escolares para escuelas con docentes multigrado y unigrado.,
4506 anaqueles para las bibliotecas escolares y de aula. Con los Textos, Guías y Materiales Educativos
entregados, se beneficiaron 210,200 niños (as) de los 185 corregimientos más pobres del país.

En Educación Preescolar No Formal fueron beneficiados 30,208 niños y niñas de 4 y 5 años que asistieron
a los 252 CEFACEI durante todos los años del Proyecto y en el programa Madre a Madre se beneficiaron
20,187 niños y niñas menores de 6 años durante todo el desarrollo del programa.

A estudiantes de extrema pobreza de primaria y primer ciclo les fueron otorgadas 23,455 becas. Se
rehabilitaron 2325 aulas equivalentes (90.40% de lo programado), con una inversión de B/.21.82 millones
(102% del total de los recursos originalmente dispuestos para obras civiles y mobiliario). Cambios en
indicadores básicos de equidad: baja en la tasa de deserción de los 185 corregimientos meta, la cual se
aproxima a la tasa nacional, y en la tasa de repetición que bajó de 10.6 a 7.9 (-25.8%) en el período
1998-2000. La cobertura de atención pre escolar alcanzó un 58% en el 2000 a nivel nacional (13% de
aumento con relación a 1996). La evaluación cognositivo-lingüística y psicomotora resultó superior en los
niños de CEFACEI, en relación a los que no asistieron a preescolar. En la mayoría de los indicadores
mejora la situación de las niñas, proceso tendiente a la equidad de género.

A.       Contribución Aportada por el Desarrollo de los Objetivos y Resultados Alcanzados

Objetivos del Proyecto de Educación Básica

Los objetivos del Proyecto se dirigieron a (i) mejorar la calidad de la educación, preprimaria y la
educación básica (ii) mejorar la igualdad de acceso a la educación preescolar y a la educación básica para
los niños en áreas rurales y urbanas pobres (iii) expandir la cobertura de educación preescolar por medio
de modelos no formales operados por la comunidad y (iv) fortalecer la capacidad de planificación,
financiamiento, supervisión y establecimiento de normas del Ministerio de Educación. En enero de 1996 se
elabora el Informe de Evaluación de Personal, el 3 de abril del mismo año se firma el Convenio de



                                                    - 18 -

Préstamo y entra en efectividad el 26 de agosto de 1996. El Proyecto es por un total de B/. 58 millones de
los que B/. 35 millones (60%) son aportados por el préstamo y B/. 23 millones (40%) corresponden al
aporte local. Al finalizar la ejecución del proyecto, los desembolsos totalizan B/. 59.3 millones: (i) B/. 35
millones (59.0%) provenientes del préstamo y (ii) B/ 24.3 millones (41%) corresponden a la contrapartida
local.

2. Revisión de Objetivos

No se realizaron revisiones de manera formal, sin embargo, en la práctica varió el enfoque para los
Subcomponentes correspondientes a: (i) Reorientación del Programa Escolar, al otorgar las becas
priorizando el rendimiento escolar, y (ii) Rehabilitación de la Infraestructura Educativa enfocada hacia la
conversión de escuelas originales a módulos de aula.

3. Componentes Originales

1 Mejoramiento de la Calidad y Equidad en la Educación Básica
1A Entrenamiento de Docentes en Metodología Multigrado

Objetivo: Contribuir con el mejoramiento de la calidad educativa mediante acciones diferenciales de
capacitación a docentes, supervisores y aspirantes a docentes.

1B Suministro de Libros de Textos y Materiales Didácticos

Objetivo: Contribuir al mejoramiento de la calidad de la educación básica general, mediante la dotación de
libros de texto, bibliotecas de aulas y escolares, de consulta, guías para el docente y materiales educativos
que apoyen efectivamente el desarrollo del currículum.

1C Reorientación del Programa Escolar

Objetivo: Desarrollar un programa de acción dirigido al ofrecimiento de becas a estudiantes de los
corregimientos de mayor nivel de pobreza en el país, y con ello contribuir a evitar los altos índices de
deserción y repetición que se dan en estos sectores, debido a la falta de recursos económicos.

1D Desarrollo del Sistema de Evaluación de Estudiantes

Objetivo: Evaluar sistemática y periódicamente el logro de los objetivos curriculares en los terceros y
sextos grados de educación primaria, tercer año de premedia y sexto año de media, para proporcionar
informaciones que puedan ser empleadas en la toma de decisiones que contribuyan al mejoramiento de la
calidad de la educación panameña.

1E Rehabilitación de la Infraestructura Educativa

Objetivo: Mejorar la calidad de la educación mediante la rehabilitación de las condiciones físicas de la
infraestructura y el mobiliario de los centros escolares ubicados dentro de los 185 corregimientos más
pobres del país, así como también la puesta en ejecución de un plan piloto de mantenimiento de la
infraestructura escolar por parte de las comunidades. (Ejecutado por el Fondo de Inversión Social - FIS).




                                                      - 19 -

2 Expansión de Educación Preescolar no Formal
2A Programa CEFACEI

Objetivo: Promover el desarrollo integral del niño o niña de 4 y 5 años, de comunidades de extrema pobreza
y de áreas de difícil acceso e indígenas mediante estrategias de capacitación al equipo central del Ministerio
de Educación, promotoras y presidentes de los Comités de Padres y Madres de Familias Administradores
de los Centros de Educación Comunitaria y Educación Inicial.

2B Piloto Madre a Madre.

Objetivo: Sensibilizar y focalizar a comunidades de difícil acceso extendiendo la cobertura necesaria para
atender a los niños y niñas menores de 6 años a través de una estrategia no formal de capacitar a las
madres de dicha población infantil

2C Programa de Radio

Objetivo: Ofrecer orientaciones metodológicas que apoyen a las familias y a las comunidades en su rol de
educadores de sus hijos, favoreciendo la estimulación de la infancia menor de 6 años, de acuerdo con las
características socio culturales de cada región, mediante programas radiales ejecutados por una red de
emisoras locales.

3 Fortalecimiento Institucional del Ministerio de Educación

Objetivo: Brindar asistencia técnica y financiera al Ministerio de Educación con el fin de fortalecer su
capacidad de planificación y establecimiento de normas, financiar el diseño, prueba e implantación de los
sistemas de administración de información.

3A Capacidad de Desarrollo de Planificación y Establecimiento de Normas

Objetivo: Financiar estudios y asistencia técnica dirigida a (i) Cómo impulsar la participación comunitaria
(ii) optimizar la distribución de recursos presupuestarios entre los distintos niveles de educación y (iii)
delegar funciones del Ministerio de Educación.

3B Desarrollo de un Sistema de Administración de Información

Objetivo: Implementar el Sistema de Información Gerencial del Ministerio de Educación, que permita el
acceso a toda la información procedente del sistema.

4. Componentes Revisados

Los Componentes se ejecutaron conforme con el SAR.

5. Calidad de la Participación

Los objetivos de los distintos Componentes de la Fase I se cumplieron en un elevado porcentaje de acuerdo
con las especificaciones del SAR. La amplitud de los Componentes y Subcomponentes requiere un esfuerzo
adicional en cuanto a documentar los procedimientos de monitoreo y evaluación para evaluar de manera
progresiva e integral los resultados del Proyecto, por medio de informes estructurados de tal forma que
proporcionen información diferenciada entre los objetivos de cada segmento del Proyecto, las actividades


                                                    - 20 -

para alcanzarlos y la relación entre la descripción de los logros y su expresión cuantitativa.

6. Riesgos del Proyecto

El documento original del Proyecto en la Sección de Riesgos Limitados señala "la limitada capacidad del
Ministerio de Educación para administrar e implementar proyectos en gran escala y proponer las medidas
para atenuar los riesgos". De acuerdo con los resultados de la Ira fase y dado que la 2da. Fase del
Proyecto se encuentra en ejecución, se consideran apropiadas las medidas conjuntas entre la UCP y
MEDUC, adoptadas para disminuir los riesgos de ejecución del Proyecto. Conviene hacer énfasis en los
requerimientos de fortalecimiento institucional identificados en la Fase I, y que aún no han sido satisfechos.
En materia de becas, subsiste el criterio de otorgarlas sobre la base del desempeño académico, criterio
distinto al contenido en el Proyecto, debido a que no brinda incentivos adecuados para los estudiantes de
sexto grado, quienes se encuentran propensos a desertar, razón por la que existe el riesgo de que el
beneficio de las becas no alcance a los más vulnerables. El número de relaciones interinstitucionales puede
influir sobre la agilidad de las decisiones inherentes a la ejecución de las metas del proyecto en su segunda
fase, particularmente en lo relacionado con el Subcomponente de Rehabilitación de Infraestructura.

B. Evolución de los Objetivos y Resultados

Al comparar los objetivos del Proyecto con los resultados en los corregimientos más pobres, se identifican
dos situaciones: (i) las relacionadas directamente con la calidad y equidad de la educación, como medio
para disminuir la pobreza, medibles de acuerdo con los rangos e indicadores proporcionados en el
documento del Proyecto y (ii) los beneficios indirectos, relacionados con el uso de los centros educativos
como base mejorar la nutrición de los niños y el conocimiento sobre el cultivo de la tierra y la cría para
la subsistencia.
En estas dos dimensiones, los objetivos del Proyecto contribuyen a la reducción de la pobreza por medio de
la educación
.
1. Resultados por Componente

1 Mejoramiento de la Calidad y Equidad en la Educación Básica
1A Entrenamiento de Docentes en Metodología Multigrados

De los 3,800 docentes multigrado que debían participar en la capacitación, se registra una cifra promedio
de 3,899 docentes participantes, cumpliéndose la meta de acciones de capacitación en un 150%, y de
maestros participantes, en un 103%. La capacitación a docentes y supervisores en forma programada y
continua incluyó la concepción metodológica "Nuevas Estrategias Pedagógicas. Nueva Escuela para el
siglo XXI"; el Uso y manejo de guías de aprendizajes y Uso de los libros de Texto, Organización y
funcionamiento de las Bibliotecas Escolares y de Aulas; Manejo de Guías de Aprendizajes y Planeamiento
de Clases; Atención Diferenciada, Elaboración y Uso de Materiales Didácticos y Fortalecimiento de los
Componentes de Escuela Nueva- Escuela Activa. Se dictaron varios seminarios talleres para la formación
de los facilitadores quienes tenían a su cargo la capacitación de todos los educadores multigrado durante
los veranos. Entre estos seminarios talleres podemos mencionar el de Uso Activo de textos, bibliotecas de
aula y escolares, dirigido a 176 docentes y supervisores quienes capacitaron a 5,512 docentes multigrado y
de escuelas unigrado en "Uso y manejo de Guías de Aprendizaje y Uso de los libros de textos, organización
y funcionamiento de las bibliotecas escolares y de aulas".

De los docentes multigrado participantes en la capacitación del verano 99, un total de 2,689 evaluaron el
Subcomponente Capacitación a Docentes Multigrado. Esta evaluación reveló que más del 60% la


                                                     - 21 -

considera útil para su práctica pedagógica, manifestaron el buen dominio de los capacitadores, y atención
a las necesidades de los docentes. Más del 90% confirmó que ambos cursos sirven para mejorar el logro de
los estudiantes, sus contenidos son importantes, y en los mismos se les permitió participar, opinar y
reflexionar.

El proceso de capacitación se inició con la formación de los 166 docentes de los 78 centros pilotos, como
facilitadores para iniciar el Programa "Escuela Nueva - Escuela Activa. Se realizaron nueve (9) eventos
para la formación de facilitadores, con 991 participantes, (al menos cuatro eventos por cada uno), con una
tasa de 24 docentes por capacitador, superando la meta planteada. Se ofreció una capacitación a 409
estudiantes del último año de formación docente de la Escuela Normal Juan Demóstenes Arosemena . 35
docentes, fueron formados en la elaboración de guías de aprendizaje y 166 funcionarios al inicio de
Proyecto fueron capacitados en la elaboración de recursos didácticos. El remplazo de fichas por cartillas
que contienen las guías de aprendizaje superó todas las expectativas y se distribuyeron 183,970 para todas
las escuelas con docentes multigrado a nivel nacional. Las guías de aprendizaje y cartillas y la concepción
de Escuela Nueva/Activa, enriquecen el proceso educativo en las aulas multigrado, privilegiando el
desarrollo de la creatividad, expresión oral e imaginación, la capacidad de reflexión y análisis, el trabajo en
grupo, la integración teoría-práctica, el liderazgo compartido, el orden, solidaridad y cooperación, entre
otras, que promueven el mejoramiento de la calidad del proceso de aprendizaje.

1B Suministro de Libros de Textos y Materiales Didácticos

A partir de 1998 se produce la distribución de libros de texto de primaria y de guías de docentes de
primaria de las cuatro (4) asignaturas básicas (español, matemáticas, ciencias naturales y estudios
sociales) de I° a VI° en el 100% de las escuelas multigrados y en 355 escuelas unigrados de los 185
corregimientos más pobres, beneficiando aproximadamente a 210,200 estudiantes de las 13 Regiones
Educativas. En total se distribuyeron 433,086 textos y 58,868 en 1998. Ese mismo año se distribuyeron
88,919 libros y materiales educativos de bibliotecas de aulas y escolares. En 1999, se hace entrega de
163,314 libros y materiales de biblioteca, 97,416 textos y 14,117 guías de docentes. En el 2000, se
entregaron 14,743 libros y materiales de biblioteca; 63,682 textos y 14,010 guías para el docente. En el
2001 se repartieron 26,497 libros y materiales educativos para las bibliotecas y en el 2002, se repartieron
38,952 libros y materiales educativos para las bibliotecas de aulas y escolares. Ese mismo año se realizó
la distribución de 32,962 textos y 4,464 guías de docentes de primaria. También fueron entregados 4,506
anaqueles para las bibliotecas de aulas y escolares. En cuanto a la distribución de libros y materiales de
biblioteca de Premedia podemos indicar que se repartieron 46,050 en las 103 bibliotecas completas que se
distribuyeron a nivel nacional.

Los procedimientos para realizar las tareas de licitación, evaluación, selección y abastecimiento de libros,
contemplaron las siguientes acciones: (i) Elaboración y publicación de criterios e indicadores para la
evaluación de libros de textos y guías didácticas de primaria, (ii) Elaboración del documento estrategias de
embalaje y distribución de textos y guías didácticas para primaria, (iii) Elaboración instructivos de
evaluación de libros de textos y guías de primaria, (iv) Elaboración del documento de licitación de textos y
guías de primaria, (v) Elaboración del documento de licitación pública internacional en dos etapas, de los
textos y guías para el docente de premedia de la educación básica general, entre otros.

1C Reorientación del Programa Escolar

El Subcomponente prevé que el IFARHU establecerá una nueva línea presupuestaria para becas enfocadas
íntegramente a los pobres de acuerdo con el criterio del Proyecto. Se mantiene la norma de aplicar el
Reglamento para el Otorgamiento de Becas del IFARHU, en el que se exige al solicitante de beca el


                                                     - 22 -

promedio mínimo acumulativo de 3.0 puntos. Se estableció como condición que MINEDUC sometiera al
IFARHU los documentos reflejando el compromiso para la reorientación del criterio para asignar becas. En
1,656 escuelas primarias y 185 escuelas de premedia fueron entegadas durante toda la ejecución del
Proyecto de Educación Básica, 23,455 becas, por un monto superior a los B/.24.5 millones.

1D Desarrollo del Sistema de Evaluación de Estudiantes

El componente estaba integrado por seis proyectos: (i) Preparación, validación y administración de pruebas
de aprovechamiento. (ii) Investigación de los esfuerzos por modernizar la ejecución curricular. (iii)
Preparación, validación y administración de la prueba de maduración para niños que entra a primer grado.
(iv) Preparación, validación y administración de pruebas socio-emocionales. (v) Investigación sobre la
relación entre variables contextuales del estudiante, del profesor y la escuela y el rendimiento académico del
estudiante y las variables socio-emocionales.(vi) Investigación sobre el impacto y el uso de la información
producida por la administración de las pruebas. Para su implementación se creó el Sistema Nacional de la
Calidad de la Educación (SINECE).

De éstos, se cumplieron actividades correspondientes al primero, pruebas de aprovechamiento. En julio de
1996, se realizó la primera evaluación de carácter censal del rendimiento académico a 132,000 estudiantes
de III, VI, IX y XII grado, cuyos resultados se presentaron a las autoridades del ME en mayo de 1998. La
segunda evaluación se realizó en 1998, no teniendo parámetros válidos para su comparación. El SINECE
fue suspendido en 1999. Recientemente se creó la Dirección Nacional de Evaluación del ME, cuyos
objetivos se encaminan a corregir las deficiencias que el sistema educativo tiene en esta materia.

1E Rehabilitación de la Infraestructura Educativa

Se rehabilitaron 2,325 aulas equivalentes (90.40% de lo programado), con una inversión de B/.21.82
millones (102% del total de los recursos originalmente dispuestos para obras civiles y mobiliario). Este
Componente tiene un desempeño muy satisfactorio, si considera las condiciones de acceso, transporte de
materiales, disponibilidad de mano de obra y condiciones climáticas para la ejecución de las obras.

La evaluación de los requerimientos que sirvieron de base para la cuantificación e identificación de la
rehabilitación de las escuelas se realizó con la aplicación de criterios distintos, originados por la
percepción del Director de la escuela acerca del estado en que se encontraban las instalaciones para el
momento del diseño del Proyecto. En consecuencia, en lugar de utilizar las 988 escuelas como unidad de
medida, se adoptó el concepto de transformación de la construcción de espacios especiales, no
contemplados originalmente (letrinas, patios, cocinas, etc) en aulas equivalentes para los fines de la
definición de las metas del componente.     En el período 97-2002, se han tramitado con el FIS, 14
licitaciones, 169 comparaciones de precio, 7 contrataciones directas, y por medio del PNUD, 32 actos
públicos que contemplan 336 proyectos de reparación y /o sustitución de aulas, y la adecuación de
espacios especiales en 322 centros escolares. De los 336, hay 310 terminados y 26 en construcción.

Una forma de optimizar aún más los resultados obtenidos, es la revisión de la cadena de valor entre el
MEDUC, el FIS y la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto para el diseño, ejecución, inspección de obra y
administración de contratos. De esta forma se disminuye el riego de incurrir en costos adicionales
equivalentes al tiempo de tramitación en cada uno de los proyectos y a la demora en la entrega final de los
mismos.




                                                     - 23 -

2. Expansión de Educación Preescolar no Formal

Las participantes en los Programas son voluntarias, seleccionadas por la comunidad, de acuerdo con el
perfil preparado por la Dirección de Educación Inicial del MEDUC. Involucra una metodología novedosa,
que ha hecho frente a las inequidades planteadas en términos de posibilidades de acceso a las comunidades
con índices más altos de pobreza. La preparación de madres y padres de las comunidades permite potenciar
el recurso humano de existente, lo que revierte directamente sobre el mejoramiento de las condiciones
sociales de la familia, y a su vez éstas, sobre el desarrollo de la misma comunidade.

Se requiere un sistema sencillo que permita llevar control sobre indicadores básicos que puedan medir los
cambios esperados que se van dando y los esperados.

2A Programa CEFACEI

Su implementación involucró múltiples acciones de promoción, organización, planeamiento, capacitación,
orientación y seguimiento. A partir de 1996, se realizaron jornadas de capacitación de personal a nivel
central. Se elaboraron paquetes pedagógicos y otros materiales para niños(as) de 4 y 5 años. Para el
funcionamiento de un CEFACEI se realizaron acciones como la organización y focalización de
comunidades, reuniones de sensibilización, divulgación, organización y formalización de los COPAMACE
y capacitación de las promotoras. En la capacitación se les orientó en la elaboración de materiales
didácticos con recursos recuperables, planeamiento, evaluación y uso de metodología activa y participativa.
En el último año de ejecución se trabajó en la revisión del material educativo, según nuevos enfoques
pedagógicos lo que permitió elaborar las Unidades de Aprendizaje Integrado (UAI), el Manual para las
Promotoras, un Manual para la supervisión, un folleto con cantos para niños y un documento de la
Metodología Juego Trabajo. Inicialmente, los COPAMACE hicieron énfasis en los aspectos
administrativos y luego, como una forma de fortalecerlos, se incentiva su participación en programas de
auto gestión y desarrollo de la comunidad.

De los 400 CEFACEI programados, se crearon 252, (63%) superándose la meta prevista en el número de
niños y niñas atendidos, al totalizar 30,208 niños (as), lográndose un 151% de la meta de atención(
20,000) según el SAR. Este programa fue creado para las zonas urbano marginales, rurales e indígenas, de
los 185 corregimientos de extrema pobreza y que no cuentan con jardines de infancia en el nivel formal.
Considerando el número de centros, los beneficiarios y la amplitud de la cobertura del programa, se amerita
de la revisión en función del número de supervisores asignados, de tal forma que la presencia de
supervisores garantice aún más el éxito del programa en las diferentes comunidades Durante la ejecución
del subcomponente se utilizó el documento Laura y Lorenzo Aprenden con sus Padres, como medio para
lograr la participación de padres y madres en el programa de orientación familiar que se desarrolló cada 15
días.
.
De acuerdo con el informe de evaluación de este componente realizada en el 2001, en evaluación
cognoscitiva lingüística realizada a niños de Ier grado, los niños de CEFACEI tuvieron un 85.2 de
aprovechamiento, frente a 78.6 de niños de jardín y 75.3 de niños que no asistieron a preescolar. En esta
área, las niñas tuvieron promedios más altos. En el desarrollo psicomotor, también los niños de CEFACEI
(80.9), superaron a los que no asistieron a preescolar (75.8). Es conveniente realizar una evaluación con
una muestra más amplia a nivel nacional.

2B Piloto Madre a Madre

El programa desarrolló actividades de capacitación del personal técnico del nivel central para el proceso de


                                                      - 24 -

apertura del programa, quienes elaboraron y adecuaron el material de trabajo. Se efectuó la divulgación y
sensibilización de las autoridades provinciales, municipales, supervisores y directores. Se focalizaron
comunidades de extrema pobreza en zonas de difícil acceso, se planificó y organizó las capacitaciones de
las madres animadoras. Este programa ha sido exitoso, resultando de impacto difícilmente cuantificable en
el desarrollo de las comunidades. Hasta el cierre del Proyecto de Educación Básica, se crearon 116
programas y se capacitaron las 116 madres animadoras, las cuales formaron a más de 3,338 madres
participantes, logrando beneficiar a 20,187 niños (as) menores de 6 años de las comunidades pobres de
mayor dispersión.

La madre animadora labora en las comunidades dirigiendo equipos mínimos de diez personas. En las
áreas indígenas es necesario preparar el material educativo en español y en el idioma de la etnia con el
propósito de facilitar la ejecución del programa e involucrar al mayor número posible de personas.

2C Programas Radiales

Subcomponente que se constituye en medio y soporte de los programas de Educación Inicial para la
orientación y capacitación a las Promotoras y Madres Animadoras, así como fomento a una mejor
participación de los padres en el desarrollo de los aprendizajes de los hijos. La ejecución del programa
implicó tareas administrativas, técnicas y de capacitación, tales como: jornadas de trabajo de organización
y coordinación, revisión y ajustes de libretos de programas pilotos de radio, estructuración y definición de
40 programas radiales, (100% de lo previsto), grabación y validación, grabación de insumos para la
producción de programas con voces de artistas panameños. Se han efectuado evaluaciones de sintonía de
los programas a nivel nacional.

Se seleccionaron estaciones de radio locales y regionales, considerando la cobertura, preferencia de
sintonía y la disminución de los costos de transmisión de los programas.

3 Fortalecimiento Institucional del Ministerio de Educación.
3A Capacidad de Desarrollo de Planificación y Establecimiento de Normas

Se previó que los esfuerzos de consultoría financiados por el Proyecto se dirigieran a (i) Impulsar la
Participación Comunitaria, (ii) optimización de la distribución de recursos presupuestarios entre los
distintos niveles de educación, materias sobre las que no se reporta ninguna actividad durante la vigencia
del Proyecto, y (iii) a la delegación de las funciones del Ministerio de Educación a las oficinas
provinciales, materia que es resuelta con la vigencia de la Ley de Educación y la creación de las
Direcciones Regionales del MEDUC.

3B Desarrollo de un Sistema de Administración de Información

Se llevó a cabo la contratación de consultorías en las áreas de reingeniería del sistema de compras, se
adquirieron e instalaron 119 equipos de computación para las direcciones regionales y oficinas del
Ministerio de Educación. Se instaló el cableado estructurado para la instalación de la red interna del
Ministerio. Los traslado de sede a Los Ríos y a Corozal han producido nuevas inversiones para contar con
las instalaciones apropiadas en los cinco edificios que ocupa el MEDUC, para el funcionamiento de la red.
A la fecha, mayo del 2002 la situación del diseño de sistemas es la siguiente:

Se encuentra en proceso la contratación para el diseño de las bases de datos para las estadísticas
educativas y para la administración de recursos humanos.




                                                     - 25 -

2. Impacto en el Desarrollo Institucional

El proceso de Reforma Educativa que alcanza el grado de estandarización de la educación básica y de la
educación media durante el presente año, tiene vínculos significativos en las áreas de perfeccionamiento,
definición de currículos y educación inicial del Ministerio de Educación. La capacidad instalada en la
formación de maestros multigrado, la unificación de los currículos de primaria y la participación de los
programas CEFACEI y Madre a Madre, constituyen ejemplos del fortalecimiento institucional del
Ministerio de Educación. La reciente creación de la Dirección de Evaluación y la creación de la base de
datos para mantener las estadísticas educativas, constituyen decisiones que contribuyen al fortalecimiento
institucional del Ministerio de Educación.

C. Factores Importantes que Afectaron la Implementación y los Resultados del Proyecto.

1. Factores Fuera del Control del Banco Mundial o del Ministerio de Educación.

La limitada influencia sobre aspectos económico sociales externos al sistema educativo, para el
mejoramiento de las condiciones de vida de la población (superación de la pobreza). A pesar de los
esfuerzos del proyecto en materia de la ampliación de la educación básica y preescolar en los 185
corregimientos meta, en el año 2000, la matrícula de primaria registró una variación de - 9.3% con respecto
al 98, siendo de -11.4% para Ier grado. La lentitud en los procesos de contratación, la supervisión de las
obras y la calidad de la construcción continúa siendo un factor en el que los controles formales dificultan el
logro de las metas establecidas.

2. Factores Generales Sobre Controles Llevados a Cabo por el Gobierno Panameño

La falta de aprobación del Presupuesto del 2002, por parte de la Asamblea Legislativa, implicó la prórroga
del Presupuesto del 2001, procedimiento que influye sobre la agilidad de los pagos programados con
fondos del aporte local. El número de pasos requeridos para la contratación, ejecución y supervisión de
obras influye sobre la optimización en el uso de los recursos, particularmente, cuando no es posible
ejecutar los proyectos durante la estación seca. La centralización de los procedimientos de control en el
MEDUC introduce demoras en la gestión del Proyecto.

3. Factores Generales que Involucran a la Agencia de Control

Debido al tiempo invertido en los procedimientos de control previo ejercido por la Contraloría General de
la República (Contratos superiores a B/. 10,000,00 sujetos al refrendo del Contralor General) y a la
centralización de los procedimientos de aprobación a nivel interno del MEDUC, se crea la necesidad de
revisar los procesos actuales para realizar las propuestas dirigidas a otorgarle agilidad a las operaciones y
garantizar la oportunidad en la administración financiera del Proyecto.

Costo y Financiamiento

De acuerdo con los estados financieros al finalizar la ejecución del Proyecto, del total de fondos
disponibles, se han realizado desembolsos por B/. 59.3 millones, correspondiendo 35.0 millones a Fondos
Externos y B/. 24.3 millones a Fondos locales (incluye B/. 17.6 millones correspondientes al Programa de
Becas). Se llevaron a cabo licitaciones internacionales por B/ 6.1 millones para el suministro de textos,
materiales educativos y equipos para el Sistema de Información y licitaciones nacionales para la ejecución
del proyectos por B/. 18.1 millones.




                                                    - 26 -

D. Sostenibilidad

La sostenibilidad de los objetivos del Proyecto es función de la disponibilidad presupuestaria del Ministerio
de Educación para destinar recursos a los subcomponentes como el mantenimiento y rehabilitación de
centros educativos, y la remuneración que actualmente reciben las personas involucradas en los programas
de educación no formal, así como la disponibilidad de recursos para la continuación del programa de becas
actualmente en ejecución por el IFARHU.

1. Seguimiento y Expansión del Proyecto de Educación Básica

Para una segunda fase, el proyecto plantea darle continuidad al componente de Mejoramiento de la Calidad
y Acceso de la Educación Básica, con un monto total asignado de $44,950,000 (28,3-BIRF y
16,650-GOPAN). Se continúa con el Reforzamiento Institucional del Sistema Educativo, sólo con el
Sistema de Manejo Informativo, con un monto asignado de $5,2 millones (1,8-BIRF y 3,4-GOPAN). La
Administración del Proyecto es un componente aparte del Reforzamiento Institucional, con una asignación
de $2,650,000 (1,8-BIRF y 850-GOPAN).

2. De Acuerdos Transitorios a Operaciones Regulares

El desarrollo de la capacitación en multigrado, se establece como acción regular del mejoramiento de la
calidad y acceso a la educación básica. La creación de la Dirección Nacional de Evaluación Educativa
por parte del Gobierno, establece la posibilidad de establecer un sistema que desarrolle las pruebas de
aprovechamiento y madurez. La Dirección de Educación Inicial, realiza gestiones para incorporar al
presupuesto anual, la partida correspondiente a la remuneración de las madres animadoras y de las
promotoras. El IFARHU realiza el seguimiento de la distribución de las becas para asegurar la equidad en
cuanto a las escuelas seleccionadas y al número de niños y niñas beneficiadas. Se prevé que el IFARHU
establecerá una nueva línea para becas enfocadas íntegramente a los pobres de acuerdo con el criterio del
Proyecto. El mantenimiento preventivo de los establecimientos educativos tiende a constituir una actividad
permanente de MEDUC, en función de sus recursos presupuestarios.

E. Desempeño del Banco Mundial y del Prestatario

1. Desempeño del Banco Mundial

Al inicio del Proyecto el Banco proporcionó capacitación al personal de la UCP, acerca de los
requerimientos para el trámite de desembolsos del préstamo, lo que constituyó una contribución efectiva
para el normal desenvolvimiento de los proyecto. Las misiones de seguimiento y evaluación han aportado
criterios para la administración y ejecución del Proyecto.

2. Desempeño del Prestatario.

Medido en términos de cumplimiento del Proyecto, el desempeño del Prestatario es muy satisfactorio, ya
que las metas se lograron en un alto porcentaje dentro del plazo de ejecución del proyecto, con impactos
relevantes sobre la calidad y cobertura de la educación. La reciente creación de la Dirección de Evaluación
y la creación de la base de datos para mantener las estadísticas educativas, constituyen decisiones que
contribuyen al fortalecimiento institucional del Ministerio de Educación.




                                                    - 27 -

F. Lecciones Aprendidas

La utilización de distintos medios dirigidos a lograr la calidad de la educación requiere la definición de
resultados intermedios que permitan evaluar el cumplimiento de los objetivos del Proyecto. Los
procedimientos de evaluación de los Componentes y el monitoreo de las acciones intermedias, facilita la
adopción de decisiones tendientes a mantener su enfoque o reorientarlas según los resultados parciales que
se obtengan. Los programas de educación no formal estimulan la iniciativa de las comunidades para
desarrollar actividades comunitarias que debidamente dirigidas permiten el logro de objetivos múltiples. La
formación del promotor(a), postulado por la comunidad, el cumplimiento de actividades complementarias a
las actividades de aula, así como la enseñanza de la agricultura y la cría para fines de proporcionar
alimentación a los(as) niños(as), constituyen un valor agregado a las metas establecidas. La participación
de distintos organismos internacionales y locales en la atención de la pobreza indica coincidencia en cuanto
a la prioridad que merece esta materia en sus distintas dimensiones.

G. Futuras Operaciones MEDUC y el Banco Mundial

Se encuentra en ejecución la Segunda Fase del Proyecto de Educación Básica.


(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
QUALITY
a. Improvement in student achievement                                      a. Due to the dismantling of the assessment
scores.                                                                    unit, it has been impossible to establish
                                                                           improvement on student achievement scores,
                                                                           however, if the system is revitalized by the
                                                                           Ministry, this can be measured in the future.

b. Increase in time spent on learning                                      b. Rather than observing six schools over
activities.                                                                time, it was considered unnesessary since all
                                                                           rural, multigrade schools were positively
                                                                           impacted in time on task due to investments
                                                                           made in teacher training and multigrade
                                                                           materials.

c. Changes in the type of interactions                                     c. The social assessment of the early
between mothers and children, as perceived                                 childhood education programs determined, in
by the mothers.                                                            a qualitative fashion, that mothers considered
                                                                           that they have improved their knowledge of
                                                                           child development and skills for child care.
                                                                           Parents value their childrens' social and
                                                                           behavioral achievements and aquisition of
                                                                           learning skills. They also value their own
                                                                           learning which has helped improve the
                                                                           interaction with and teaching of their children.

EQUITY
a. A decrease in the gap between poorest                                   Overall the decrease in repetition rates for
and richest corregimientos in repetition and                               children in the poorest corregimientos was
dropout rates.                                                             approx. 26% vs. 20% for all children in basic
                                                                           education from 1998 to 2001. The gap for
                                                                           drop out remains steady. It is low at 2.2%
                                                                           overall and 2.6 in the poorest corregimientos.
b. A decrease in the gap between females                                   In the targeted corregimientos, girls and boys
and males in repetition rates and dropout                                  have similar drop out rates at about 2.6%.
rates in targeted corregimientos.                                          Girls tend to repeat less than boys but both
                                                                           show a decrease in repetition between years
                                                                           1998 and 2001 - girls by 28% and boys by
                                                                           24% in the poorest areas.
EFFICIENCY
A decrease in the average number of years                                  Initial data provided in the SAR was found to
required to complete Basic Education (1-9).                                be unreliable and no further calculations on
                                                                           this has been gathered by the MOE.
COVERAGE
Increase at pre-primary.                                                   Through the expansion of non-formal early
                                                                           childhood education programs (CEFACEI
                                                                           and Madre-a-madre), 35,220 more children
                                                                           ages 4 and 5 are able to attend pre-primary,
                                                                           which more than doubles the number
                                                                           attending formal preschool at the time of
                                                                           appraisal (33,000).


Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) & (b) Improvement in basic education     -
(quality & equity):
- Training of 400 CEFACEI promotoras, 300                                  - Training of 252 CEFACEI promotoras, 116
mother leaders and 3,800 multigrade                                        mother leaders providing training to 1,740
teachers.                                                                  mother participants, and 5,512 multigrade
                                                                           and unigrade teachers.




                                                        - 29 -

(a) & (b)- 20 radio programs (childhood                      -40 radio programs on early childhood
education) to be produced and broadcasted.                   education and development produced and
                                                             broadcasted through 9 local radio stations,
                                                             plus sets of cassettes produced and
                                                             distributed to madres animadoras.


(a) & (b)- Distribution of pre-primary                       - Distribution to 30,208 pre-primary children.
packages to 22,400 children
(a) & (b)- Distribution of textbooks to 587,216
primary students and 148,420 secondary
students.
(a) & (b)- Development and application of                    - Pre-pilot developed for 3rd grade. Pilot test
achievement, school readiness and effective                  administered for 3rd and 6th grades covering
development tests.                                           9,750 students. Development of test items -
                                                             1,160 for 3rd and 6th. Test item surveys -
                                                             1,180. Assessment carried out of 145,254
                                                             students in grades 3, 6, 9, and 12 with 549
                                                             schools participating. Subjects covered:
                                                             Spanish, math, social studies, and natural
                                                             sciences.


(a) & (b)- Rehabilitation of 1,700 primary                   - 340 rehabilitation projects were completed,
school classrooms and replacement of 350                     which translates to 2,334 classrooms.
deteriorated classrooms.
(c) Expand Coverage:                                         - Enrollment increased to include 30,200 new
- Enrollment increased to include 20,000 new                 CEFACEI children and 5,220
CEFACEI children and 1,800                                   Mother-to-Mother children.
Mother-to-Mother children.
(d) Strengthen MEDUC:                                        Workshops with local teams (provinces)
- Workshops to assist in MEDUC's                             regarding decentralization. Five countries
institutional and managerial reform.                         invited to share experiences and reforms
                                                             undertaken.
(d) - MIS designed and implemented.                          Development of subsystem for management
                                                             of statistical data completed and utilized in 8
                                                             of 9 regions linked to central Ministry.
                                                             Hardware and software training completed on
                                                             various modules at central and local levels.

1End of project




                                                   - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
I. Improvement in Basic Education Quality & Access
 A. In-service Teacher Training                              2.52            3.86             153
 B. Educational Materials                                    5.67            6.09             107
 C. Educational Assessment System                            2.29            0.86              38
 D. Scholarships for Poor students                          12.58          17.61              140
 E. Primary School Rehabilitation                           21.35          21.85              102
II. Expansion of Non Formal Preschool Education
 A. Expanding CEFACEI Program                                5.26            2.69              51
 B. Mother-to-Mother Pilot Project                           0.43            0.87             202
III. Institutional Strengthening
 A. Management Information System                            5.21            2.42              46
 B. Develop Planning and Supervision Capacity                0.34            0.08              24
 C. Policy Making Studies                                    0.63            0.11              17
 D. Project Coordination and Management                      1.72            2.91             169

Total Baseline Cost                                         58.00          59.35
                           Total Project Costs              58.00          59.35
                    Total Financing Required                58.00          59.35


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00          11.60         7.10         0.00         18.70
                                    (0.00)         (9.20)      (5.60)         (0.00)      (14.80)
2. Goods                             3.30           0.00         1.00         0.00          4.30
                                    (3.30)         (0.00)      (1.00)         (0.00)       (4.30)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         5.40         0.00          5.40
T.A. Consultants' Services          (0.00)         (0.00)      (5.40)         (0.00)       (5.40)
and Studies
4. Training                          0.00           0.00         3.40         0.00          3.40
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (3.40)         (0.00)       (3.40)
5. Educational Materials             5.40           1.10         0.60         0.00          7.10
                                    (5.40)         (1.10)      (0.60)         (0.00)       (7.10)
6. Scholarshops &                    0.00           0.00         0.00         19.10        19.10
Promotoras Fees and Incr.           (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
Operating costs (2.2)
   Total                             8.70          12.70        17.50         19.10        58.00
                                    (8.70)        (10.30)      (16.00)        (0.00)      (35.00)




                                                - 31 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               8.49             11.12             0.00             19.61
                                          (0.00)             (6.60)            (8.78)            (0.00)           (15.38)
   2. Goods                                1.19               0.00              2.22             0.00              3.41
                                          (1.13)             (0.00)            (2.02)            (0.00)           (3.15)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              4.18             0.00              4.18
   T.A. Consultants' Services             (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.18)            (0.00)           (4.18)
   and Studies
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              5.99             0.00              5.99
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.73)            (0.00)           (4.73)
   5. Educational Materials                4.66               0.00              2.33             0.00              6.99
                                          (4.66)             (0.00)            (1.97)            (0.00)           (6.63)
   6. Scholarshops &                       0.00               0.00              1.56             17.61            19.17
   Promotoras Fees and Incr.              (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.93)            (0.00)           (0.93)
   Operating costs (2.2)
      Total                                5.85               8.49             27.40             17.61            59.35
                                          (5.79)             (6.60)           (22.61)            (0.00)           (35.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
I. IMPROVEMENT IN
BASIC EDUCATION
QUALITY AND ACCESS
A. In-service Teacher          2.52         0.00                     3.81         0.05                  151.2     0.0
Training
B. Educational Materials       5.67         0.00                     6.07         0.02                  107.1     0.0
C. Educational Assessment      2.26         0.03                     0.86         0.00                  38.1      0.0
System
D. Scholarships for Poor       0.00        12.58                     0.00         17.61                  0.0     140.0
students
E. Primary School             16.71         4.63                    17.03         4.82                  101.9    104.1
Rehabilitation
II. EXPANSION OF NON
FORMAL PRESCHOOL
EDUCATION
A. Expanding CEFACEI           1.12         4.14                     1.75         0.94                  156.3     22.7
Program
B. Mother-to-Mother Pilot      0.29         0.14                     0.67         0.20                  231.0    142.9



                                                          - 32 -

Project
III. INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
A. Management            3.80   1.41           2.30   0.12    60.5   8.5
Information System
B. Develop Planning and  0.34   0.00           0.08   0.00    23.5   0.0
Supervision Capacity
C. Policy Making         0.63   0.00           0.11   0.00    17.5   0.0
Studies
D. Project Coordination  1.65   0.06           2.31   0.60    140.0 1000.0
and Management




                                       - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


The SAR estimated a social Internal Rate of Return (IRR). Expected benefits were projected to be an
increase in future earnings due to improved productivity, especially for children from low-income families
and rural areas. Additionally, it was expected that the project would produce benefits that would accrue to
society at large beyond the project beneficiaries, contributing to poverty alleviation most notably in rural
areas.


At the time the SAR was prepared, savings from the preschool component were estimated based on the
average annual cost per formal preschool child (US$288) in comparison with average annual costs per
child in the CEFACEI program (US$124) and Mother-to-Mother program (US$243). The Project
Coordination Unit calculated the actual cost per child for the two alternative types of preschools based on
program expenditures. The cost per child attending the CEFACEI program is US$89 per year and includes
materials, equipment and payment of the promotora. The cost per child for those attended by the mother
participants in the Mother-to-Mother program is US$43. According to the Comptroller General's
Department for Statistics and Census, the cost per child at a formal preschool is US$374.58. Based on
these unit costs the potential savings exceeded that which was estimated in the SAR. If the 30,200 children
from CEFACEI and 5,220 from Mother-to-Mother programs had attended a regular preschool, the cost
would have been near US$13 million rather than the actual which was approximately US$2.9 million for a
savings in the area of US$10 million rather than the US$3.6 million savings originally estimated.




                                                     - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Supervision
              6/5/1996                                                           S               S
              6/27/1997                                                          S               S
              8/13/1997                6    Team Leader, Procurement             S               S
                                            Spec., Architect, Early
                                            Childhood Ed. Spec., Operations
                                            Analyst, Test Development
                                            Specialist.
              10/31/1997               5    Team Leader, Procurement             S               S
                                            Spec., Architect, Early
                                            Childhood Ed. Spec., Operations
                                            Analyst,
              5/22/1998                4    Team Leader, Procurement             S               S
                                            Spec., Early Childhood Ed.
                                            Spec., Operations Analyst,
              9/28/1998                8    Team Leader, (3) Education           S               S
                                            Specialists, Procurement,
                                            Architect, IT Specialist,
                                            Operations Analyst
              2/8/1999                 2    Team Leader, Education               S               S
                                            Specialist
              10/10/1999               8    Team Leader , Education              S               S
                                            Specialist, Procurement, FMS,
                                            Architect, IT Specialist,
                                            Operations Analyst, Early
                                            Childhood Specialist.
              5/10/2000                3    Team Leader , Operations             S               S
                                            Analyst, Early Childhood Spec.
              11/30/2000            N/A     N/A                                  S               S
              4/6/2001                 3    Team Leader, Operations              S               S
                                            Analyst, FMS
              11/9/2001                2    Team Leader, Procurement             S               S
                                            Specialist,
              3/1/2002                 4    Team Leader, Operations              S               S
                                            Analyst, Procurement Specialist,
                                            Architect
              5/29/2002                6    Team Leader, Operations              S               S
                                            Analyst, Procurement Specialist,
                                            Architect, Early Childhood
                                            Specialist, Bilingual Ed. Spec.
              10/19/2002               5    Team Leader, Operations              S               S
                                            Analyst, Procurement Specialist,
                                            IT Specialist, FMS


 ICR



                                             - 35 -

               10/19/2002                 5     Team Leader, Operations                 S          S
                                                Analyst, Procurement
                                                Specialist, FMS, IT
                                                Specialist




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Supervision                             30.53*                          335,381
  ICR                                        7.26                          26,053
  Total                                   *37.79                          361,434
*Staff weeks shown are for FY2000 to present only as no data is available in SAP prior to FY2000.




                                                - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

A. Preparation and Appraisal Documents:

    Staff Appraisal Report, The Republic of Panama Basic Education Project. February 29, 1996. World
    Bank.

    Correspondence Files, World Bank.

B. Mid-term Evaluation Documents (October 1999).

C. Project Summary Reports (PSRs) and Aide Memoires, June 1996 to October 2002. World Bank.

D. Project Coordinating Unit Progress Reports, MEDUC.

E. Project Closing and Evaluation Documents (2002).

F. Studies Produced.




                                                - 39 -

- 40 -

