Doa fata
The World Bank
FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
C ' ,.5 3 /- (jc72A
Rhpwit No. P-3901-4IJB
B
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSFD CREDIT
OF SDR 10.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A
RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT PROJECT
November 20, 1984
IThh dumiast hw a gleted dAsdhm ad my be _ed by r mot oudy in dte pefonefr of
thei official dues.I e_utau- p -my not othewbe be disfoed wlhut Wod Buk =_icm   I



CURRENCY EQUdALETS
Currency Unit      Guieua-Bissau Peso
US$1  =  GP 107.65 1/
GP I million = US$ 9,289
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS ANiD ACRONYMS
BNG      National Bank of Guinea-Bissau
ECU      European Currency Unit
EEC      European Economic Community
FAC      Aid and Cooperation Fund (France)
FED      European Development Fund
IMF      International Monetary Fund
SIDA     Swedish International Development Authority
UGAB     Management Unit for BalAnce of Payments Assiz-tance
I/ At date of appraisal. July 1984



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GUIEA-BISSA
RECOOClTRUC    IMOR  CRElJCIT
CREDIT SUHK&R
Borrower:              Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Executing Agency:      National Bank of GCinea-Bissau
Credit Amount:         SDR 10.1 million (US$10.0 mllion equiJalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Co-financier:          Sitzerlan  (SvF 4,500.000)
Pur pose:              The proposed IDA credit would make available US$10.0
million to meet part of the priority import require-
ments of Guinea-Bissau's economic recovery program.
The credit funds would be allocated to the procurement
of agricultural Implements, fertilizers, agro-chemi-
cals. tools, intermediate producer goods. machinery,
batteries and spare parts In accordance with the
Government's foreign exchange budget.
The risks associated with the proposed Credit are that
the economic policy reforms that are part of the
recovery program might not be fully Implemented, or
that adequate financing from other sources might not be
available to sustain imports at the required level. On
the basis of the difficult and far-reaching measures
that the Government has already put into effect under
the economic recovery program, and the efforts made to
.'                           maximize the flow of external assistaace to sustain
imports, these risks have been reduced to an acceptable
level.
Estimated Period
of Disbursement:       December 1984 - November 1985
Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                None prepared
Nap:                   IBRD 15779R
document has a restricted distbution and may be used by recipients only in the perormance of
oUfcial daties. Its contents may not otherwi be dcosed without Word Bank a-Uorization. |



InTrT         DEVELOPENT ASSOCIATION
RPORT ADMD               OF   E PRESIDENT
TO THE.EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
-     ON0 A PROPOSED DEVELOPMT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GBuNE&-BISSAu
FOR A RECR IOIIMPORT PROJECr
1.       I submit the following report and re edation on a proposed
Recontruction Import Credit to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau for an asmt in
various currencies equivalet to Special Drawing Rights 10.1 million (US$10.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA tems.
PARt I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "Guinea-Bissau: An Introductoy Basic
Economic Report" was distributed to the Executive Directors in may 1982 (3529-
GUB). Part I of this President's report contains an assessment of the current
situation and prospects of the economy based on the concsons of the econo-
mic report and up-dated information obtained by subsequent IDA and TMP mis-
sions and discussions with government officials. Basic economic data and
selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.       On July 16. 1984 President Jobo Bernardo Vieira formed the second
constitutional government of Guinea-Bissau. This nev government has confirmed
the pragmatic and non-aligned policy trends begun under President Vieira and
the Revolutionary Council which took office In November 1980. Guinea-Bissan
bas been beset with extreme economic difficulties in recent years leading to
severe shortages of foreign exchange. This Part centers on the structure of
the economy and recent economic developments, while Part II describes the
measures being taken by the Government to rectify the current situation, and
the economic prospects of the country.
Structure of the Economy
4.       Guinea-Bissau is a small ccuntry located on the West African coast
between Senegal aud Guinea, with a population of about 800 thousand and an
estimated 1983 per capita GDP of US$180. The primary sector accounts for
nearly 90X of employment, 58S of GDP. and most of the country's foreign
exchange earnings. There is a small industrial sector contributing 9% of GDP
and consisting of a few import substitution and agro-processing plants. The
tertiary sector is mainly made up of government, transportation and com_ercial
services.
5.       Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for 52Z
of GDP and 60% of exports and employing most of the active labor force. The



-2-
sector now uses about 300,000 hectares of arable land although the potential
exists to triple that -ithout jeopardizing tne ecological balance.  Production
is mostly subsistence-oriented and organized on a family basis in self-con-
tained villages, although there are also some larger ownler-operated farms.
Cash crops include groundnuts, palm kernels, and cashew nuts.  It is believed
tbat, at least until recently, a sizeable portion of cash crop output has been
smuggled to Senegal. Farming techniques remain simple, although extension
services have improved them in large areas, mainly in the FACIFED and SIDA
integrated rural projects. Insufficient storage capacity and lack of spare
parts for the maintenance of trucks and river boats, the latter being the main
means of transportation in the south, often hinder the marketing and distribu-
tion of rice, the main staple., and groundauts.
6.        The fisheries sector accounts for only 5Z of CDP but represents
approximately 30% of export revenues. The present total catch of 150,000 tons
per vear is about half the potential that could be sustained. Industrial
fishing is organized on the basis of a joint venture with the USSR (Estrela do
Mar). Another joint venture with France (Semapesca) has management problems
and its fleet is practically non-operative due to lack of maintenance, but it
is currently being rehabilitated under an ECU 4 million program financed by
the EEC. Artisanal fishing is limited and is being helped by two projects
which provide fishermen with improved equipment aud marketing support. Most
of the annual catch - about 140,000 tons - comes from fishing rights negotia-
ted with the USSR, the EEC, Portugal, Senegal and South Korea, and is not
Landed in the country.
7.        Despite Guinea-Bissau's forestry potential, production is less than
1% of GDP and contributes only 6% of exports. Industrial wood production is
run primarily by a public enterprise (Socotram) currently under management and
financial reorganization assisted by SIDA. The 2.6 million hectares of
forests could support annual industrial production of 30,000 cubic meters of
lumber, about three times what was produced in 1982, without significant
effects on the ecological balance.
8.        The manufacturing sector is still underdeveloped, accounting for
about 5% of GDP and less than 1% of exports. This sector suffers from lack of
a clearly defined industrial policy, and many poorly conceived projects are
inappropriately scaled. The consumer goods industry is the most important
subsectcr and includes the production of bread, milk, beverages, shirts,
rubber misttresses and sugarcane rum. The agro-processing sector consists
mainly of old plants for hulling rice and groundnuts. A large and sophisti-
cated complex for rice milling, processing of groundnut oil, and manufacturing
of soap and cattle feed has never started operating. The manufacturing sector
also includes a small oxygen and acetylene plant, a ship repair yard, a
plastic plant and an assembly plant for Citroen cars.(both presently shut
down), two furniture factories, a brick making factory and equipment repair
shops.
9.        Guinea-Bissau's transportation system consists of rivers in the
south and roads in most of the rest of the country, both of which carry
approximately 45.000 tons per year of freight. Rice production is transported
by river and cash crops for export by road. Host domestic and international



-3-
traffic flows through Bissau and its port, which is being rehabilitated and
expanded with IDA assistance. The min road network is adequate but it needs
to be repaired and rehabilitated, and more feeder roads are necessary to serve
agricultural projects.
10.       Guinea-Bissau has a dual energy economy based on domestic woodfuels
and imported oil.  About 90% of total energy consumption consists of firewood
and charcoal, used in almost all households for cooking and in traditional
rural, commercial and artisanal activities.  Imported petroleum fuels are used
for transport, industry and lighting (where kerosene or electricity is used).
The public electric power system is in urgent need of rehabilitation, with
over half of the installed generating capacity out of service and roughly 40Z
losses in the distribution network.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       Despite a reasonable endowment of natural resources, the economy's
growth performance has been poor. The average real GDP growth rate, which was
3Z in the period 1975-1979, fell to 1.5Z in the period 1979-82.  In 1983 GDP
declined by 5%. The poor performance of agriculture has been largely respon-
sible for this. Agricultural production generally suffers from low producer
prices, inefficient organization of the marketing system, shortage of imported
consumer and intermediate goods, poor technology and adverse climatic condi-
tions. The intensification of many of these problems after 1979 sparked the
decline.
12.       The public finances have also weakened over the past four years.
Current revenues decreased from 16% of GDP in 1980 to 1 in 1983. This is due
mainly to the maintenance of an overvalued exchange rate since trade taxes
generate more than half of overall revenue intake but the taxes are levied on
official prices of commodities, which have been much lower than actual trans-
action prices in the parallel market. A contributing factor has been the
further narrowing of the income tax base as mediocre operating results of
enterprises progressively diminish the yield from profit taxes. External
grants, comprising mostly commodity and project aid, averaging as much as 20%
of GDP have also been decreasing.
13.       The deteriorating public finance situation has affected the level of
public expenditures, which have declined, with capital expenditures falling
faster than current expenditures.  From an excessive level of 46% of GDP in
1980 capital expenditures fell to 25% in 1983. Overall public expenditures
fell from 76Z of GDP in 1980 to 49Z in 1983. Despite this, the disparity
between the role of the public sector and its financing capacity is enormous.
Revenue and grants have been able to cover only 55% of total expenditures
between 1980 and 1983. The rest of the financing came largely from domestic
borrowing from the banking system (credits from the Central Bank covered as
much as 60Z of the gap) and from foreign sources, in the form of medium- and
long-term loans at concessionary rates.
14.      Developments in the external trade and payments situation have been
dismal.  The overvaluation of the exchange rate, low producer prices. and the
shortage of consumer goods in the interior of the country deterred production



and stimulated smuggling to neighboring countries. Also, international prices
of some of Guinea-Bissau's products have been weak in certain periods. Export
receipts stabilized at around US$12 millon per year during 1980-1983. This
amount sufficed to pay for 20Z of imports in the first three years of the
period. In 1983, the aforementioned problems were aggravated, and drought
affected some parts of the country, so that exports fell by almost 30% to a
level which financed only 15X of the imports in that year. Purther, the
absence of a systematic development planning process for the country resulted
in a gradual decrease in inflow of official transfers. It also made it diffi-
cult to attract offsetting long-term loans at concessionary rates.  Guinea-
Bissau therefore depended on arrears and short-term credits to finance its
deficits.
15.       The financial circumstances during the period 1980-83 have meant a
shortage in the availabilitv of imports, a crucial element in the macroeco-
nomic mosaic in Guinea-Bissau: imports in 1983 amounted to about 45Z of GDP.
The manufacturing sector uses imported inputs intensively and agriculture has
not been able to supply the country's food requirements. Owing to this large
dependence on imports, the reduction in the import capacity experienced in
1983 aggravated the decline in economic activity. Shortages of sparc parts
have kept more than 50Z of the truck and river fleets imobilized, to the
detriment of agricultural production and comerce. The manufacturing sector
has been operating at an average of 30% of capacity due to a lack of spare
parts and imported ray materials. The energy sector also operates at less
than 502 capacity, because of poor maintenance and lack of spare parts.
Unable to trade their production for consumer and intermediary goods in the
official market, some farmers who previously produced a surplus for sale, have
reverted to subsistence levels of activity or have been forced to accept
unfavorable terms of trade in the parallel market. These conditions have
exerted a negative effect on production.
16.       Capital formation has been undertaken mostly by the public sector
and averaged 25Z of GDP in the period 1981-83. Until 1980, investment pro-
grams were very ambitious and focused heavily on industry, transportation,
energy and telecommunications. At that time the investment programs were
loosely defined, and since they were far greater than the country's financial
and implementation capacity only 50X of planned expenditures were carried out.
After the inauguration of the new Government in November 1980, some projects
were discontinued and the execution of others was slowed down to better
conform with the economy's absorptive and implementation capacity. The
primary sector being the focus of the new development strategy, agriculture,
in particular, saw its share in total investment rise from 7% in 1980 to 28%
in 1983. These investments have been largely financed by foreirn grants and
concessionary loans. However, the share of grants in the financing of the
investment program has been declining, resulting in the rising relative
importance of concessionary loans as a component of external assistance.
17.       Since 1982, Guinea-Bissau's government has shown an encouraging
recognition of past weaknesses in economic policies, and a convincing commit-
ment to rehabilitate,the nation's economy. In November 1983 Guinea-Bissau
called a meeting of interested donors in Lisbon to outline its stabilization
and reform program .which is described and analysed in Part II. The program is



-5-
centered'-around correcting price distortions, creating incentives for produc-
tion, dismantling the monopoly of the state trading system, reducing financial
imbalances and strengthening economic institutions. At that time the Govern-
ment also sought emergency financial assistance to cover needed imports of
consumer goods necessary to supply the rural area and stimulate farmers to
increase output for domestic and foreign markets. Various donors (including
*       Portugal, the Netherlands, Sweden, the EEC and, subsequently, Switzerland)
pledged balance of payments assistance totalling about US$15 million to
finance the needed consumer goods. In some cases, release of this assistance
was subject to the Government's reaching agreement with the IMF on a Stand-By
Agreement. The latter was approved by the IMF Board on August 27, 1984, in an
amount of 1.875 million SDR. or 25Z of quota, as a first tranche credit. In
the beginning of 1985, Guinea-Bissau intends to approach the IMF to negotiate
a new credit. Guinea-Bissau has renegotiated its debt with Brazil, and
commercial arrears with Portugal have also been rescheduled. The Government
has requested the Paris Club to reschedule the remainder of its outstanding
debt.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
18.       The economic program launched in December 1983. consists of three
stages: stabilization, economic recovery and self-sustained economic develop-
ment. The stabilization phase is designed to correct internal and external
price distortions, shift the urban-rural terms of trade to the areas of
greatest comparative advantage in agriculture and improve the efficiency in
the management of public sector finances. It will depend heavily on foreign
concessional aid to finance the imports required to support the adjustment
process. The economic recovery program will start logically during the
stabilization phase and will consist of further policy, institutional and
investment programing reforms aimed at increasing the supply of producer and
consumer goods in order to achieve self-sufficiency in food. This would
restore a reasonable equilibrium in the balance of payments, thereby reducing
the need for special import financing aid. The development phase will consist
of actions to promote the longer term development of the economy in such areas
as education, health, basic infrastructure and applied research.  These areas
are described at length in the recently published First Four-Year Plan
1983-86.
19.       The main elements of the first stage of the stabilization program
are presented in Table 1 and discussed in the following paragraphs.
Exchange Rate Adjustment
20.       The new exchange rate policy is based on periodical adjustment of
the exchange rate to overcome the negative effects of the present overvalua-
tion on resource allocation, and on the fiscal and foreign sector balances.
There was an initial 100% devaluation of the peso from PG 44 to PG 88 per SDR
in December 1983 which was followed by a 1% weekly devaluation. In order to
assess the economic effects of the devaluation, the 1Z weekly devaluation was
temporarily suspended in June and replaced by smaller adjustments; it was



-6-
resumed in November, In consultation with the IMF, so that by the eand of 1984
an estimated total devaluation of some 200% vill have been achieved.
Agricultural Pricing Policy
21.       To st lulate agricultural production. producer prices of principal
crops were increased by 76S for rice and cashew nuts, 901 for groundnuts and
114% for palm kernels. This is expected to give a substantial stimulus to
production as well as to redirect agricultural output from parallel uarkets to
official cbannels. As a result, it is estimated that the US dollar value of
recorded exports will increase by about 150% in 1984 from US$8.6 million in
1983 to US$22 million in 1984 and by 15% per year in the next years. However,
the success of this measure could be seriously affected if farmers are unable
to find goods on which to spend their increased incomes or if future changes
in relative prices operate to the disadvantage of agriculture. The contribu-
tion of bilateral donors through emergency financial assistance during 1984
and 1985 to finance imports of consumer goods, is expected to avoid the first
risk. With the intention of avoiding the second riak, the Government has
announced its intention to maintain relative prices in favor of the agricul-
tural sector. To this end, an agricultural pricing and incentives study,
financed under the IDA-supported Technical Assistance Project (Credit No.
1517-GUB), expected to be completed by August 1985, will assist the Government
in defining a long term system of flexible incentive prices.
Commercial Marketing and Distribution
22.       The success of the agricultural pricing policy depends a great deal
on the working of the marketing system. The control of the distribution
network by two state trading enterprises (Armazens do Povo and Socomin) has
not performed well the function of efficiently and adequately supplying
farmers with needed goods before the cropping season. The purchase and
evacuation of agricultural production by the two public enterprises has also
been deficient. In order to improve efficiency in marketing, the Government
began in 1983 to allow private traders to participate in foreign trade and to
be mostly responsible for domestic distribution. Retail stores operated by
the two state trading enterprises will be transferred to the private sector.
By the end of 1984 at least 30 out of 270 retail stores owned by the state
enterprises will have been transferred to the private sector or closed (15
have been already transferred) and further sales are planned in 1985. Private
traders will be given import licenses equal to 70% of their exports of non-
traditional goods.
Consumer Prices
23.       Consumer prices were adjusted in April, 1984, to reflect the effects
of the devaluation and of wage increases which averaged only 501 with the
object of shifting the internal terms of trade in favor of agriculture. Price
controls that used to apply to some 400 products have been restricted to major
basic commodities. The price of rice, the main staple, was increased by 672,
resulting in a substantial decrease in the average real wage. On May 1, 1984
prices of petroleum products were increased by 10OZ except for the prices of
jet fuel and diesel fuel for power generation, which increased by 189Z and



-7-
29Z, respectively. Fuel prices will be further adjusted to the economically
optiml level following the completion of a study on fuel prices financed
under IDA's Second Petroleum Exploration Project, and a study on fuel taxation
and administrative organization of tax collection, financed under the Bissau
Port Project.
Fiscal Policies
24.       The overvaluation of the exchange rate and the price control prac-
tices eroded the tax base in the past. The 1984 budget reflects the impact of
the new exchange rate policy and the set of further measures to increase
revenue: income tax reform, conversion of specific rates of tax on consump-
tion goods to ad valorem rates, increase in the stamp tax and service charge
collected by customs, and increases in transfers from public enterprises to
the Treasury. As a result, current revenues in 1984 are expected to increase
by 69%. In 1985 further efforts will be made to increase the tax base and the
progressiveness and-generality of the tax system as well as to improve the
efficiency of collection procedures.
25.       Because it will not be possible to achieve much larger increases in
revenues in the short run, the Government will keep a tight restraint on
expenditures. Wages and salaries in the public sector, which represent about
552 of current expenditures, will increase by 50Z in 1984 meaning a large
decrease in real income. The existing vacancies will only be partially filled
and no new posts will be created except for technical and managerial posi-
tions. In addition, current expenditures are budgeted to increase only by
57%. In order to better control overall expenditures, the investment and
development budget will be limited to available foreign financing, will be
consolidated in the general budget and all expenses will be controlled by the
Ministry of Finance. In order to enforce budgetary discipline, the state
enterprises are now required to adopt standard quarterly basic accounting
procedures, that will be a condition of applying for bank loans. Further-
more, public enterprises are now required to deposit, in domestic currency,
payments due for foreign debt service.  This measure will also facilitate the
settlement of the external debt and the monitoring of arrears. These fiscal
measures are expected to reduce the overall deficit after grants from 45Z of
total expenditure in 1983 to 40X in 1984 and larger decreases are expected in
the following years as those and further measures are fully implemented.
Monetary and Interest Rate Policy
26.       The expected reduction in the fiscal deficit vie a vis total expen-
ditures will exert less pressure on the money supply, which is targeted to
increase by 44Z in 1984. Despite the fall in real liquidity, the lowering of
the public sector share in total credit availability is expected to support
the reactivation of private sector production and investment. The performance
of the monetary system will benefit from the introduction of interest rates on
savings (4.5%) and one year time deposits (16%) and the increase in bank
lending rates from 6.5 - 8% to 12.5 - 25S.



- 8 -
TABLE 1: GUINEA-BISSAU ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
Policy Issue                         Action Taken
External Sector
Exchange Rate            - 100Z devaluation in December 1983.
- 1% per week depreciation from December 1983 to
May 1984.
- Slight adjustments from June 1984 to October
1984.
- 1Z per week depreciation from October 1984.
(Expected to continue at least through first
quarter of 1985. ITMF will review policy during
Article IV Consultation scheduled for Narch
1985).
Public Finances
Tax System               - Consolidation of several taxes levied on com-
mercial and industrial activities into a single
tax on business profits.
- Consolidation of various taxes on rental income
into a single tax on rental income.
- Consolidation of various taxes on income into
single tax on salaries and fees.
- Introduction of a simplified complementary tax
applicable to legal entities.
- Introduction of a tax on capital income applied
to interest, dividends, earnings from technology
transfers and other capital income with a rate
of 10% for dividends and royalties and 25% for
other capital income.
- Conversion of consumer taxes formerly based on
specified consumption rates into ad valorem
taxes.
- Overall increase of more than 100% of stamp
taxes and custom duties.
Arrears from State       - Improvement in the recording of accounts payable
Enterprises                to the government in order to increase collec-
tion of arrears in profit transfers from pub-
lic enterprises.
Public Expenditure       - Reduction by nearly 40% of the originally pre-
pared investment program compensated in part
with further steps to improve the quality of
investment programming.
- Increases of government employees' nominal gross
wages limited to 50%.



-9-
Prices
Producer Price          - Increases of producer prices at the end of 1983
Incentives                of 76S for rice and cashm nuts, 901 for
groundnuts and 1141 for palm kernels. (Further
increases ezpected In December 1984 to keep pace
with devaluation.)
Consumer Prices         - Adjustment of consumer prices in April 1984:
+671 for rice, +96Z for cooking oil, +50Z for
soap, +100Z for bread, +100Z for petroleum
products (1891 for jet fuel and 29Z for diesel
for power generation).
Price Control           - System of price controls modified to reduce
coverage from 400 goods to 30 basic commodi-
ties that cover the bulk of domestic trans-
actions. (The pricing study to be performed
under the IDA Technical Assistance Project
will seek to formulate a policy which will
allow Implementation of automatic price ad-
justments and further deregulation).
Monetary Policy
Interest Rates          - Introduction in June 1984 of interest rates on
deposits ranging from 4.51 for savings deposits
with 15 days' notice to 161 for one-year
deposits.
- Increases in loan rates from 6.5 - 81 to 12.5 -
251. (Inflation has been running at about 50-
55% in 1983-1984).
Money Supply            - Letter of Intent submitted to IMF in July 1984
limiting money supply expansion to 44Z in 1984.
Commerce
Liberalization          - Transfer to the private sector of at least 30
out of 270 retail stores from the two state-
owned trade companies by the end of 1984.
- Concession to private traders of Import licenses
for 70X of their exports of non-traditional
goods.
Incentives to           - Allocation of imports to retail traders in
Exports                   proportion to their deliveries of traditional
agricultural goods to the state enterprises.



- 10 -
Evalution and Outlook
27_       The policy changes already adopted by Governmet costtute the
first step in the direction of economc recoer.   e reversal of the present
domestc and foreign sector  4ealances is likely to take several years, and
the country  il need perseverance, foreign understanding and adequate finan-
cial assistance. The country's economic potential, particularly in the
primary sector. is well above present performance. The policy changes being
introduced in the areas of pricing and marketing ill have a major effect on
production in the medium-term if the necessary infusion of foreign exchange to
pay for imports arrives at the right time. Delays in providing the necessary
foreign assistance would discredit the whole stabilization program and there-
fore reduce political support for its implementation. The Bank's role as a
leader in aid coordination, and in finaning an advisor to assist the govern-
ment in the coordination of foreign assistance under the IDA technical assis-
tance credit, mill help to lessen this possibility.
28-       On the assumption that the Government vill succeed in the implemen-
tation of the stabilization program, and that adequate foreign assistance vill
be provided to support the import program, the real rate of growth of GDP
should increase from 4Z in 1984 to 7Z in 1985. This growth is expected to
take place mainly in the agricultural sector where, on the assumption of
adequate supplies of producer and consumer goods, and reasonable rainfall,
farmers would be prepared to raise outpot for distribution tbrough official
markets. Specifically, estimates show that on this basis the output of rice
could rise by 15 percent over the 1983 level. groundnuts by 60 percent, coco-
nut by 32 percent and cashew nuts by 25 percent. In addition, a rise in
industrial output can be expected to take place as imports of intermediate
inputs aLlow industry to reach a higher level of capacity utilization.
Finally, GDP growth will be favorably affected by more sustained electricity
output and by a restoration of the transport fleet, both dependent on tbe
availability of imported spare parts and materials. Even higher rates of
growth could be obtained after that year when present constraints on mnuage-
ment and qualified manpower will be progressively alreviated. However, this
growth path will depend on the Government's commitment to implement the re-
habilitation program and the extent to which foreign assistance is offered.
In fact, new loans and transfers decreased in 1983 and imports in the first              ,
semester of 1984 were disappointing (because of delays in implementing finan-
cing programs) and amounted to 70Z of imports in the same period of 1983,
which were 20Z below those of 1980.
29.       For 1984 the requirement for rehabilitation imports and food (ex-
cluding imports financed under projects) is estimated at some US$30 million.
Because of the shortfall in foreign financing, these imports will not exceed
US$24 million, considered to be a minEImum import program. Of this amount,
some $8.0 million will be covered by grant foor aid, balance of payments
support already released by bilateral donors. $2.0 million expected to be
disbursed from the proposed IDA credit, and a first tranche release of $1.8
million from the IMF. The remaining undisbursed $16.0 million will be covered
as follows: $8.0 million rDA, $2.0 million Switzerland, $3.0 million Portugal,
and $1.0 million Sweden. The IDA Credit is important not only for itself. but
for the signal it will give other donors: it will encourage them to negotiate



- 11 -
assistance for the 1985 import progran, estimated at $21.0 million (of which
$8.0 mill:ion in food aid). This joint effort will enable the country to
provide the productive sector with the incentive and intermediate inputs
required to raise output and exports. Close and frequent contacts between IDA
and the other major donors active in Guinea-Bisssu indicate that this response
will be forthcoming. A meeting of donors is planned for January/February 1985
to further discuss an effective strategy for coordination of aid to the
-       country.
30.       Important developments may occur in the fiscal picture over the next
years. A substantial improvement in collections , together with a final imple-
mentation of the fiscal reforms , currency devaluation and a sustained recovery
of the economic activity should result in increasing revenues. On the expen-
diture side, we expect that rationalization and a more efficient allocation
should result in wage bill increasing less than expected inflation.  There-
fore, a substantial fall in the deficit in real terms would take place.
However, this adjustment will only take place if imports behave as planned and
if real production and expenditures increase accordingly.
31.      The above elements of the economic recovery program constitute an
initial politically courageous step toward orderly sustainable economic
growth. Even with the Government's commitment, the recovery process will last
several years. The implementation of a consistent policy to increase produc-
tion and exports now requires heavy inflows of external assistance. In view of
Guinea-Bissau's early stage of development, limited fiscal capacity and high
debt service burden, the country wlll continue to need foreign aid and finan-
cing on concessionary terms to cover most of its requirements.
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA-BISSAU
32.       IDA has made six credits to Guinea-Bissau totalling US$ 58.9 mil-
lion. Three have been in the transport sector, two were for petroleum explora-
tion promotion, and one was to strengthen the country's macro-economic manage-
ment capability. Annex II contains a sumnary of IDA operations in Guinea-
Bissau.
33.       IDA assistance has focussed on urgently required rehabilitation and
maintenance of roads under its First Roads Project, Credit 878-GUB for US$9.0
million (FY79) and Second Roads Project, Credit 1473-GUB for US$8.0 million
(FY84). Further assistance in the transport sector is being provided under
the Bissau Port Project, Credit 1392-GUB for $16.0 million (FY83) aimed at
rehabilitating the Port of Bissau and subsidiary river ports throughout the
country. The First Roads Project was well executed. The Second Roads Project
and the Port Project are just now getting started. The two credits in the
petroleum sector are assisting the Government to carry out offshore oil
exploration and provide for collection, processing and evalbation of seismic
data, training and physical facilities, as well as assistance in establishing
a sound legal framework for negotiating exploration contracts. The surveys
financed under the First Oil Exploration Project were implemented expeditious-
ly and led to the identification of six off-shore lots which were submitted



- 12 -
for bids to interested companies. In November 1983 a consortium headed by
ELF/Aquitalne began drilling operations.  Surveys under the second project are
progressing satisfactorily.
34.       Technical assistance has played an important role In the above
projects. In addition, in FY85 IDA approved the $6.0 million Technical
Assistance Credit (1517-GMB) aimed at assisting the Government to strengthen
the macro-economic management capability of key economic ministries, and to
develo; a sound institutional framework In newly created ministries and
agencies. Its objective is to provide the Government the necessary technical
and managerial expertise to support its efforts at economic recovery. Resi-
dent advisors and short-term consultants will work side by side with Guinean
counterparts and provide training so that the country can form an important
cadre of economic policy makers.
35.       Future IDA operations in Guinea-Bissau should continue to respond
to the Government's economic policy reforms as well as to its requests for
assistance in rehabilitating its infrastructure. A series of structural re-
forms are being supported through studies to be performed under the Techni-
cal Assistance Project, which will provide the basis for a continuing policy
dialogue and a future program of structural adjustment. Under the FAD and
UNESCO Cooperative Programs, surveys of the agriculture and education sectors
-were performed in 1983, and will form the basis for forthcoming discussions
with the Government to identify direct IDA participation in these important
sectors.
PART IV - EMERGENCY IMPORT CREDIT
Background
36.       During a March 1984 mission to Guinea-Bissau to discuss the Bank's
future lending operations in the country, the Government requested that in
addition to project-related activities in transport, energy and road mainten-
ance, the Bank support Guinea-Bissau's reform measures through quick-disburs-
ing assistance. The Government pointed out that the major policy measures
already taken had an important cost in terms of imports, and that it needed
external support to get the current productive mechanisms unfrozen and unblock
commercial channels.  In order to do this, consumer and producer goods are re-
quired to stimulate rural production and to divert exports back into official
channels. Guinea-Bissau's first steps towards economic recovery are squarely
in the right direction. and the proposed credit would provide part of the
external assistance requested by the Government to sustain its efforts. From
project conception through all stages of processing, close collaboration has
been maintained with the IMF in order to ensure consistency of views and ob-
jectives between the I1MF program and IDA's assistance to the country.
37.       A Bank mission visited Bissau during July 14 - August 6, 1984 to
appraise the proposed Reconstruction Import Credit, at which tine a list of
goods eligible for financing under the Credit was agreed upon with Government.
Negotiations were held in Bissau from November 6 to November 9. 1984. There is
no separate staff appraisal report for the proposed Credit. A Credit Summary
is at the front of this report and supplemental data appear in Annex III.



- 13 -
TABLE 2 -CRECOSTRUTION IMPORT CREDIT
ESTIMATED USE OF FUNDS
-                                                                                US$
(a) Agricultural Inputs
-            Fertilizers, pesticides and veterinary medicines                  450.000
Agricultural tools and impleme-nts                              1.500,000
Agricultural supplies and materials                               200,000
Fishing equipment, materials and spare parts                     300,000
Animal feed                                                       250,000
Other medicines and pharmaceuticals for Regional
Health Centers                                                200.000
Radios                                                            200.000
3.100.000
Cb) Transport Sector
Truck and vehicle spare parts, lubricants, tires,
repair equipment                                             1.200,000
Aircraft spare parts                                              250,000
River boat spare parts                                           300.000
Bicycles                                                          600.000
CLommunication equipment spare parts                              50,000
Tire retreading plant, materials and spare parts                  300,000
2,700,000
gc) Power Sector
Spare parts for generators and motors                            300.000
Electrical equipment, materials and spare parts                  300,000
Water connection materials and spare parts                        300,000
Lubricants                                                       300.000
1.200,030
(d) Industrial Sector
.5
Sheet metal for containers                                        1'. 100
Raw materials for hardware manufacture                            600,J00
Raw materials and spare parts for beverage plant                  600,000
Workshop equipment, materials and spare parts                     500,000
Hotel rehabilitation equipment and spare parts                    250,000
2,100,000
(e) Consultants. Services and Support Equipment for
Ministry of Commerce and UGAB                                     200,000
(f) Unallocated                                                      700,000
10,000.000



- 14 -
Objectives and Description
38.       The principal objectives of the Credit are to provide Imediate
assistance for urgent  gricultural, transport, energy and other needs to
support the Government' s economic recovery program and allow economic activity
to continue while current and future reform measures are implemented.  Speci-
fically the proposed Credit would:
(a) finance essential agricultural inputs for the Government's
economic recovery program, such as fertililers, insecticides,
herbicides, and sprayers, agricultural tools, spare parts;
(b) help restore the operation of the transport fleet by financing
the izport of batteries, spare parts for trucks, buses,
riverboats and the assembly of a tire retreading plant;
(c) provide urgently needed spare parts to allow minimal operation
of the power sector; and
(d)  finance imports for other productive and exchange-earning
sectors of the economy.
39.       The Credit wlll therefore help to provide a solid base for the
Government's economic recovery program 1983/1986. While the reform measures
taken so far are impressive and important. further adjustments will be re-
quired, concentrating on the agricultural sector and focussilg on the genera-
tion of foreign exchange. Improvements will be needed in investment program-
ming, agricultural and energy pricing policies, marketing end distribution
systems, and in the operations and orientation of state enterprises. These
structural changes will take time to prepare and necessitate strengthening of
the Covern=ent's administrative and policy-making machinery to enable such a
program to be implemented. IDA is addressing this situation through its
Technical Assistance Project for institutional development and macro-economic
management. This project also includes an agricultural pricing study and
survey of state enterprises, both intended to lead to recommendations for
reform. An Agricultural Sector Project is being prepared to address institu-
tional, pricing and marketing issues, amongst others. Thus, IDA will support
Guinea-Bissau's efforts through the recovery stage.  The merits of financing a
full structural adjustment program would be considered when the above insti-
tutional and policy reforms are further developed.
Co-financing
40.       Under a SwF200 million framework agreement signed on October 18,
1984. Switzerland will provide a contribution of SwF4.5 million towards the
project. The Swiss Contribution will be used to finance goods to be imported
for the rural sector, concentrating on agricultural goods. It will also
finance workshop equipment and tools for carpenters, blacksmiths and small
craftsmen. The Association will administer the Swiss Contribution, and
effectiveness of the IDA Credit will be subject to effectiveness of the Swiss
Contribution (Section 5.01 (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Counterpart Funds
41.       Local currency counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign
exchange provided by the Credit would be deposited into a counterpart fund
account in the BNG. The Government has given assurances that such funds would
be utilized to finance part of the recurrent or capital cost of priority
projects included in the economic recovery program (Section 3.02 (c) of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Credit Administration and Management
42.       The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be made avallable as a
grant to the BNG under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and BNG
(Section 3.01 Cb) of draft Development Credit Agreement). and BNG would have
overall responsibility for the implementation and administration of the
proposed Credit, through the Management Unit for Balance of Payments Assist-
ance (UGAB). This Unit, consisting of representatives of the M-instries of
Commerce, Plan, Rural Development and the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau
(BNG), was created in April 1984 to manage the application of emergency
balance of payments assistance pledged at the Lisbon Meeting of November,
1983.
43.       The broad categories of goods to be imported have been selected by
UGAB in consultation with the Ministry of Rural Development, for agricultural
products, and the Ministries of Social Infrastructure and Natural Resources
for goods aimed at the transport and energy sectors, respectively. UGAB will
review all import applications submitted by importing agencies to ensure that
they are eligible for financing under the proposed Credit, with the type and
volume of goods and services provided by the applicant and correct specifica-
tion of goods to reflect actual requirements. Import licenses will be issued
by the Ministry of Commerce. The import and distribution of goods wlll be
handled by normal commercial channels, with the exception of large items for
major enterprises (e.g. the power company, the airline), which would them-
selves manage the importation. Goods will be sold to the final users at
prices that reflect the international prices of the goods.
Procurement
44.       Procurement under the proposed Credit will be in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits". All
individual supply contracts of $500,000 and above will be subject to interna-
tional competitive bidding (as modified for structural adjustment and program
loans). All awards of contracts of $500,000 and above will be subject to
prior approval by the Association. Goods costing less than $500,000 would be
procured through limited international bidding by requesting no fewer than
three quotations from reputable suppliers in Guinea-Bissau and abroad.
Provision has been made for procurement by direct purchase for contracts
costing less than $100,000 when demonstrated urgency requires, and for pro-
prietary items. As far as possible, orders will be bulked across sectors and
importing agencies.



- 16 -
45.       During negotiations a detailed review was made of the procirement,
import and distribution procedures that the Government will use for imple-
menting the project. These were considered satisfactory to the Association
and incorporated into the Project Agreement as Schedule I. However, the
Government and the Association will review disbursement of the credit proceeds
after a reasonable period, and if difficulties are encountered in procurement
and disbursement, the Government will consider retaining the services of a
specialized procurement agent.  Funds have been allocated in the credit                    M
account for such consultants' services.
Disbursement and Retroactive Financing
46.       Disbursements will be made against 100Z of the C and F Bissau costs
of eligible imports. To facilitate disbursements a special account will be
established by the ENG with a foreign correspondent bank satisfactory to the
Association (Section 2.02 (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement). Estab-
lishment of this. account would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. An
amount of $2.0 million would be withdrawn by the Government from the credit
account and deposited into the special acc,_o . upon effectiveness of the
Credit Agreement. On receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures
financed out of the special account were eligible for financing and that goods
were purchased in accordance with the agreed procurement procedures, the
special account would be replenished by IDA through further disbursements. It
is recommended that goods procured by the Government in line with the above
procedures after August 1, 1984 and before signature of the Development Credit
Agreement, and up to an amount not exceeding $2.0 million, be eligible for
financing out of the proposed Credit. This will permit the Government to use
the credit to finance items required for the December 1984 harvest season.
Accounts, Audit and Evaluation
47.       The BNG will maintain records and separate accounts, including the
counterpart funds account (para. 41) in respect of the project (Section 3.01
of the draft Project Agreement) and have these accounts and financial state-
ments audited each fiscal year by auditors acceptable to the Association. The
audited accounts and records and the auditors' report will be furnished to the
Association not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 3.02 (b) of draft Project Agreement). The BNG will also maintain
records adequate to record and monitor the progress of the project (Section
2.07 (a) of draft Project Agreement) and, with the assistance of the Borrower,
prepare and furnish to the Association a completion report on the costs and
benefits resulting from the project (Section 2.07 (c) of draft Project
Agreement and Section 3.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
48.       The main benefits from the proposed Credit are that Guinea-Bissau
would be able to relaunch economic activity by being able to import essential
spare parts and inputs required by the most critical sectors of the economy.
Without the Credit, Guinea-Bissau would not be able to achieve the 7Z growth
of GNP in 1985 that is projected. Assistance to the transport sector would
relieve the present constraints to evacuation of foodstuff from the interior,



- 17 -
distribution of inputs to the rural areas and the movement of export commodi-
ties to the port of Bissau and to the population. In the agricultural sector,
the supply of fertilizers, insecticides, tools and implements, mainly to
groundnut and rice farmers would result in increased output. Together with
the incentives provided by the increased availability of consumer goods, an
increasing proportion of rural output would be channeled through regular
markets for export. The spare parts and intermediate goods for the energy and
industrial sectors would help to ensure the continuous supply of electric
energy to the city of Bissau for domestic and industrial uses and contribute
to higher levels of manufacturing capacity utilization and replacement of
imports. With increased exports and rising domestic production of food and
manufactured products the need for a special import financing is expected to
be eliminated within two or three years.
49.       The proposed credit would finance only a modest proportion of the
imports requiring external financing, while encouraging the international
community to provide further assistance to Guinea-Bissau in support of its
economic recovery program (para. 39). As indicated above, international
support on a large scale is necessary for the success of the economic recovery
and rehabilitation programs. This assistance will also strengthen the capa-
city of the Government to carry out further needed policy reforms.
50.       The major risks of the Credit are that the Government would be
unable to effectively implement the economic recovery program or that it might
alter or modify it or take other policy actions counterproductive to the
achievement of its main objectives. Another risk would be that the goods
imported under the Credit did not reach the intended beneficiaries and users
with the necessary efficiency and timeliness to spur the productive process.
There is also some risk, because of the Government's inability to close the
financing gap in the balance of payments, that there would be a continuing
scarcity of supplementary imports (i.e., fuel, lubricants, consumer goods)
which are required to ensure efficient utilization of the imports provided
under the Credit. These risks are substantially attenuated, however, as a
result of the Governments difficult and far-reaching measures already in
place, the assistance pledged by other donors in the international community,
and the assurances received regarding the procurement and distribution of
goods to be financed out of the proposed Credit. The benefits to be derived
from IDA's contribution to the Government's recovery program far outweigh the
potential risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Guinea-Bissau and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
National Bank of Guinea-Bissau and the Association, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 18 -
52.       In addition to the special conditions of the Development Credit
Agreement, which are set forth in Section III of Annex III of this Report, the
conditions of Credit effectiveness would be: (a) execution of a subsidiary
agreement between the Republic of Guinea-Bissau and the National Bank of
Guinea-Bissau; (b) and the establishment of the epecial account.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C., November 20, 1984



-19-                                     A=ez I
Page 1
GIflNEA-3[SJSA        - SOCIAL IDCATM  DSATA                      PgTe
GSJIUA-aSMII                        3sEUIE  QOIIn (sK1j2E  LSOA)   a
OS                 (HOST 155Os  UCO(I   ) lb
KIC?        LW SllQNZ AIRCA          MIDUI.TMCaE
L96ILk    17,iab     sr=Lb         san OF SA5AJA        AzC& S. 0F L11
ana cTmusam sq. on)
TOTAL                                36.1      36.t         36.1
PGEIOJLTAL                           13.4      15.6        15.7
wm  cawi  CM)                            .        g. 0.0      170.0            249.1                1UL9
-nw aimmnwuo ma caam
(ILGAIMS or OM EOUlvAhI)             11.0      36.0        35.0              61.U                  529.0
UOPA   uAM VITAL STlISICS
POSIAT0IOU..U-TIA (TUUSAIU)         340.0        ..       349.0
1mPOOLIzo (S OF TOTAL)              13.6       15.1        25.1              19.2                   29.7
*                 P~~~~~~oPULATIOE P,01JECTZ0lIS
OIULATI  IN A 2W0A   (HILL)                                1.3
STAIOUAT POPULATION (HILL)                                 4.1
Fu'ATO       T                                             1.8
POPULTATON 063S11y
MR SQ. M.                          15.0        ..         23.0              32.5                  55.8
PM sq. M1. ACRI. IAND              35.0        ..         53.1             119.2                  111.5
P0PULATIUS AGE STWJCrURE CZ)
0-14 UIS                          36.9        ..         39.7              4S.6                   45.4
15-64 uS                           53.4        ..        53.9               51.5                 5S.?
6S AD AIM                           3.7        ..          4.2               2.9                   2.9
POPtATII GRWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               0.7        ..           ..               2.J                   2.8
1R1L1                               3.7        ..           ..               6.2                    5.2
CADD  5IRTH tAI (PER THOUS)          30.1      50.1         50.2              4a.6                  47.0
CRUDE DuTH RATE (I 200M )            34.9      31.8        28.0               17.7                  15.2
G3CF  IEFEOOOCTE FAZE                 3.2       3.Z         2.7                3.Z                   3.2
FAILT PLAKIAC
ACCPORS. AIUAL (T1300)               ..
asus (2 0F  AD  WII)                ..         ..           ..               ..                     .
rDEX oF FWOD 13OD. PE CAPITA
(139-71-100)                        121.0     103.0        86.0              6S.9                   91.6
MI CAPIT  S11Y OF
CALORIs z or REQOIUtReNS)          77.0        *-         70.0              36.4                  98.2
PRESS (GRMlS WI DAY)               37.0        ..        33.0               49.9                  56.7
or amux AIm"aL AlND PULSE         4.0        ..          9.0 /c           1.3                    17.0
C111. (AGES 1-4) WAlS tATE           43.7      37.9        30.9               23.6                  16.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (EARS)         32.1      34.4        37.5               46.4                  51.7
WAMT aMORT  RATE (WIR TROUS)       1U7-6      16U.1       14.0              117.5                  L02.
ACCESS TO SAFE HATM C(PO0)
TOTAL                                ..         ..        tLO Id            2t.6                   35.6
URBN                                 ..        ..         20.0 Id           61.5                   34.1
RURAL                                ..        ..          S.0             14.2                   27.3
ACCESS TO ENRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF FPOULTON)
TOTAL                                ..      -.                             32.0
URSA.                                ..        ..           ..              69.2
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..               24.6
POPLATICH PER FPISCtIAN           210.0           .       B40.0 e.         27477.8                1194563
POP. PER 03SISC IESOI             4610.0 /f      *-       960.0 7          3396.2                 2246.9
POP. PE  3111rrL 3E0
TOTAL                             600.0         ..       620.0 le         1069.0                  986.9
13ME                                 ..        ..        220.0 7-          395.2                  366.7
RURAL                                ..        ..       1760.0 7T         3094.0                 4012.1
ARUSSZONS  M RITAL Dm                  ..      17.2        20.5 /.
ATERAGE SE OF IWUSENOLD
TOTAL                                ..         ..         6.3 Is
URBAN                                ..        ..          5.7 7
RURAL                                ''6.4                                    .
AVERAE NO. OF PFRSONSIEOG
TOrAL                                ..        ..
a133.. ..                                                                     ..                     ..
RUMAL                                ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF OAELII)
TOTAL                                ..         ..         5.0 1
UlA                                  ..        ..          5.o To
URAML                                ..        ..



-20-                                     Annex I
-20-
Page 2
OUTIZA.6ZSSAD         - macut zuiaos AAm
GUZNEAEIsBAO                        REFZUSE r 01r c1 (VIOIrSED AVIu) is
mu51                   (llD RscNt U E5TrR>N)
math.  970(k         -OL        LOW INC   AIRICAL        HNICL  IwNC
MaLb_    n7af       zsnuutk         mSO   Of SAm         arucA S. or sAM"
ADJUSTED ENROLIMENT RATIOS
PRIMAY     TOTAL                   25.0      45.0        lOt.0              69.2                   91.0
KALE                    35.0       62.0       141.0              71.6                   90.5
FZEALS                  15.0       27.0        61.0              57.6                   73.6
SCNURY: TOTAL                       3.0       9.0         20.0              13.1                   17.4
MALE                     3.0       11.0        33.0              17.6                   23.7
FUtiLE                   2.0        6.0         7.0               6.3                   14.8
VOCATIONAL C( oF SEcOND)             53.3      13.2          2.6               7.2                    5.3
PPIL-TEACCER RATIO
nIDIRT                             39.0      65.0         26.0              46.1                   36.6
ScoDRY                             13.0      18.0         10.0              25.9                   24.3
ADULT LITERACY LRA  (2)               4.9 /f    7.0         16.9              46.3                   35.6
a-no
ASSENE CARSI/TOUSADD PO               ..         ..           ..               3.6                   20.7
RADiO RECEIVERSITEOUSAND POP          3.3        ..         30.9              41.9                  100.6
TV RECSIVERSITNOUSAND POP              ..        ..           ..               2.0                   16.5
NEWSPAPER  DALY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCUATION
PER THOUSAID POPULATION             L.4        ..          7.7 A             5.4                   17.2
CrUg MUDAL ATTENMACECAMTA             0.1        ..           ..               1.4                    0.3
TOTAL LAOR fORCE (TWOUS)            170.0        ..        244.0
FU16UE (PERCET)                     3.2        ..          3.9              36.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCErN)              91.0        ..         63.0              77.4                   57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0        *-         6.0                9.6                   17.4
PA!TICIPATIOS RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              32.6        ..         26.6              41.0                   36.3
HATE T63.5                                     ..         57.3              52.1                   47.6
FEALE                               2.1        ..          2.2              30.2                   25.1
ECONIC DEPENECY RATIO                 1.2        ..          1.5               1.2                    1.4
INC Dmn
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCX
RECEIVED uT
HIGEST 5S OF HOOsEHOLDS              ..        ..
HCIGEST 2010? OF  USEOLDS            ..        ..
LWEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..
LOWEST 400or HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..
Pn TACIT Rorn
ESTIDIATED ABSOLU  POVERtTY  ICE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPIrTA)
URBAN                                ..        ..           ..             166.3                  525.3
RURAL                                ..        ..           ..              90.8                  249.0
ESTLIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (CS P  CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..        ..           ..             107.7                  477.4
RURAL                                ..        ..           ..              65.0                  166.0
ESTIATED POP. SEIaW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (E)
URSBN                                ..        ..           ..              34.7
RURAL                                ..        ..           ..              65.4
NOr AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NOT E S
la  The group averags for each indicator are populatCon-weghted aritbeetic means. Coversg  of countries song tbe
indicators depend on avaiLabIlity af data ad is not uniform.
/b  Unless otharvies norei. Dta for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 sd 1961: -Ost. for 1970  between 1969 and
1971; and data fec Host Recent Ystistos between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1977; Id 1978; /e 1979; /f 1962.
UNE. 19S



-21-                                                                                                       Anu,z
it'linaacu Of                                                                                                  Page   3
MI---  1-  4.9.                      d-..ILI j.ddd ~tn,.innj.  lit 1.tenI..I   API                1   f-fPA.A,    PI..'t...PN   tit.0 -9
neisi . n.aMP-.  .sp  a.. A    -etI PA.. ~41  rapt...-sa   aura  trill=  StaB,s  aP n. -ha.aIa  at%.... bo                                          Am... i  smn rIPA..AP.-AuAArAFLI
area  .4ian   it  his Andt.,    La   itd. antpa  .3  iualn iii. i.bi-uini.ir.                 -,pad ,LP   it, .   C.:a.b MIAnMI. dat.  a       Innkailb..  -.a.at  ensm t.0b
rin   i    . t.n   nreta   ati.iaie.mnm             ptI. It... innuj  nn  n .           nhot.tI.  A.a,raa   t Pok       o   P= Indcii PAWA *sa...ano    at. ipbanelp .  A
d -d.l.an. .L.  r.  .ai.aldaraadaaNd                            ..t .1AL.a1  A_   4A   ph.id.. lb.  BU                  .d an   du aidt  4.ePloait   nnl.aor.iap  lean h.
1111 .1.dIl nit..                                                                                   Pan4.41A  AI- - - = 1    .. . I.ntni an b.rn4l....,.  -  naiein    &I.n aolpo   th. a  *nltiiiA
i.r.a .ngnila.inej...il                                                                                                                na~     .._e.      .nn       tnlt. PAPaPAt_A.
-  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~r~~ Ira-rer am                                   . a.m .aa. -        A..o     nIt.  tt,   p ane.                 ei.iaa    nptm    4rvl    ca                       pnnai   liin
r                                                                                                              tar. ira  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ta.a,.aS.4 Il.r.a   apai. ant.  indninP1..d. bomba,1.  Ali
prinat a-tp  ainl nittianl.. amtai..a. nnornt  a  a  haip.~nneiar             atana= n.  nrn.ataa.na.) wallet n                       Ira -nt.A. iP.1.a tn -d
a  *iatnrnI neraaelnr  in  iang   iP.iint..       ini,.   ni   attn                          tpnade    Biutan   ni-ny. .3           ..1.4  PatlIn  n L  nan.. lolfmb    
T WIt, and  Iti .d....i .                                                                                            aPI'."   a..a.   -  ..tair  faeati  an -. ."bd"An.tina
P                                              Is.n.  r.nntnaa.... nid-iataa.nni.n.i- - aAl.l 'ai. aP-i  -j   ntianaman
d.ia.                                                                                      tanrnI.a . ....1-. lai 1n  -.L.a. ntani   aaris   in.*W5-etaaqiJ o,jiAi.  b.   I-n   a   rna
- a.   eui  naarn. .   ..an..aan    naiIr.a.ii                                                          e.iai-a.n.i    rpn7niitna~ie                                 it.nnt.
Siaap.a   drana Li. an-aria.ens-r  ttit t.a.rli  li.P   iiia.d  tia  ns. .nts   a bardt a  inai-siror np an t  anaidd i
a-ni.n.natia   Pia,  aa,.  od   IA dta,                                            .- hiaenan   .. aatiaimIt"apnae
raina.Iaa ian tpe,taa La                                         tnpeanntSa oP nnrnnai nat.... -Iaaana  prt.a   a Prrl   e pa tt
rai.aL.l:ea ra.an.naann ip.t...a.. anti      ntrn.IaaLL     -tanIn:Brntntaia
pain..  a,jnnaia  jaranara  r.r  arnelan   pita  '.ttie  4ait...  na.te.Jid rnra.
t.nneann   hrI. _a           ,   "n  a-ataa. usr .Ca.                                    ha.   treaa.n   at-lo   .e   ae)-n.a.nb.                                  ni
'aana.     ..,it   enn   iaiaei.t  lnalst.i    l.                                             anepa.idnaii   la    itrntpa  ltnaaAnai nrnta
P  ~   3r a..ta aa .iP  .in  tin.PInaa--inat aiia.  tb.e   is  rp.'  aataaia iaratinaia
eanini pnitiaan a- tnrtllB Bi in-aida,.n a.:a..                                                                                WAPeenitita panaPIneaa1
naB-i nanPainnnma.  tad. annap~ In at.ai ainaniannd   I.~Pna nt.anbia,. aarr. aia
.e.tananina. iP anitanapi inn Paa a atap a..nnn tap er.:e.i a- rraann.-eAlMnait antiateina                                                Poli.
t"aano  e-nit  tinan    t.  ras    I-in.aata    ail.in 1.    P.iin  aaii  aasap                                                                      "oni a  dnira Meai  nf`AA innata
.innaaeann  -aiit . - ann.A            _ -piin    b tanait.a -.Bamn .an                        APP1 [-tt .. a5naII eSAt..n.  anIf          t    ri,__LeP..  dna A.a    OAt
a. .....       ....n .,.. .a.. P  -a.  a.poeI.inte..       t.aae  aaA-                                                               at LL,_.
ta. oe ana. at  tant Apl.nie  rim.  -e .nt  S..an.   b                                        anati  tat.di
.~..nt    en i r A.aan    .a.vn      anei.          aa              it.nateBani i .BA (peann  awt n.anjAaI I- p.taane  B-nBt
ni-nfl. flit dna.L              PAAeA.an.nA`te. nlin-    raa.inaaad - Alal  ninen    nil  B. dd
In   i  .,-waaPrntan    ti.r   ae-n    l    .attn-                                              nrnadn   tn An.                 :-            -               ..P-             L
aitiL  let,. ii    ci *-ni  ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~         ~       ~        ~        .                                  T    -1 -    .   1_
La. .       L. -    a    a...   pni  a1oa..a..-aim..,-tartA.
Iann an. L   ~ ~ ~   inn  >nnt*                             tant  rntaaaarn tna::P  tena    i.nia      l               .t    aa.   o   it
tie.!niln   naiia~i.t-. a-i - *.tn. .   *a  n, pi~n   ap..         tinneaan anjna..t ritaia  n. ansnais.1 rpaaalai e.indi
ant...tsnia np - 'i-n-~   il-Pa...l   a  -e~                           .mnr.anndpntet.ta   t teeaatn en  an 1e..  tnn  nitupata2   napads
Canet.n.  a.-   a.n-..n-.-e-n!  na: n -.:-...i-iaastl-..r1% n..anpn  intahai- ne a--; a.tinIi                                 - T   et..   n     lrnat  -.
Z  A---. A.                                                                          -It-I~~~~~~tataan   ennn  raarl   n -ae.aa   -iin.,I   naann
-.ttl- .nran         Pnn  . in-nIia na    adi'-iP-n.ala                                                 r    .     ..   aeait       e.iea   aaa ,              in...           L aetata i-n
"I I-d f-...i a .19-en--i  P t .-Ie  i.- eP         .                               Anp-n   i   anipana  b.  nindn    ntnin.  an..   t.  e Pn
Pan-an h   an  PP.                                                                    .an*paht; ltsd~  nttit   i hIl d         tt.   L,I          1I.        CP.att
LLSii  .    91ILIt  Illl   -nana  .   ira "intnnt)ir.aeat PAp Aa..-in "n aO    ALAna  at.. tntl...                                                                                      PLA
-nnn Ij.aatn        a    -    .annad-ai.   ap.a.i  na.d-. nisAd                                  i!a             t..-nt   n.   nnB.   -nne    et 
naiai-    l-A.  ittin          an-annaaa   map   i                   .:                      nhay-ppian.n   ai    n.  at;at.aMa atdi
o-e.-.aaiaanaea  ntat.hi.  .aaiin  -nati    nai.aia...P-na...p.aP-La.  ann  nnaat.mnntenn.  inttnrt 
man   ia  .aa-a.'at-    aaat.-   rit-a,ni   ia   n-iataaen=ap   sn.i5e.-   amea                                                               . Pnilei nAaati   w
ta-S5 a aii AbPai   ai    1~.a    P-ait.    nlt   ai              d td-Jiadai
-di.                                                                                               aita-. inun   renai   -nnn.natai  nnl     rpataisni
'atinaanairi.  p    aPt    -p.a    a  -iaarnn iai   --.taiPa in.tei   an,snanui   naai   as,egi-.   ae   ni 
,PPLnI aniti            .         nytn.anPi aii-Wait   e   oiipa                                      aann-naa oPat..                     aliptieaaiteBmnr.a.i.p



- 22 -
Annex I
Page 4.
GUIMEA-DISSAU
ECONOKIC INDICATORS
USS Kill.              Annual Growth Rate (% constant prices)
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983                                               1981          1982         1983
GDP at Market Price                                   154.0     100.0        18.0           4.2         -5.1
Gross Domestic Investment                              36.0      23.4       -20.0          28.3         -3.6
Gross Domestic Saving                                  -7.7      -5.0            -
Current Account Balsnce                               -25.1     -16.3       -12.5          52.4        -28.7
Export of Goods + NFS                                  15.7      10.2         9.3         -21.6         -9.8
Import of Goods + NFS                                  70.6      45.8       -25.8          33.2        -15.4
OUTPUI, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983
Value Added                 Labor Force             V.A. Per Worker
GP Mill.    USS Mill.     %        '000        %       CP Mill.   USS mill.    %
Primary sector                5437        88.7       57.6     388.8        88         13984      228.1    65.5
Secondary sector               831        13.6        8.8      13.3         3         62481     1019.3   192.4
Services                      3171        51.7       33.6      39.7         9         79899     1303.4   274.0
Total/Average               9439       154.0     100.0      441.8       100        21365       348.5   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
Million GP                           % of GDP
1981        1982        1983         1981        1982        1983
Current Receipts                             927.7        928.1      1022.9           14          11         1
Current Expenditure                         1785.3       2146.1      2288.8           27          27         24
Current Surplus (Deficit -)                 -857.6      -1217.9     -1265.9          -13         -15        -13
Capital Expenditure                         1835.5       2480.0      2334.0           27          30         25
Overall Surplus/Deficit before Grants      -2693.1      -3697.9     -3599.9          -41         -46        -38
Grants                                       878.5       1620.8      1499.6           13          20         16
Overall Surplus or Deficit                 -1814.6      -2077.2     -2100.3          -27         -26        -22
Net Central Bank Financing                  1152.0       1034.9      1259.6           17          13         13
Foreign Financing (Loans)                    662.6        956.5       764.2           10          12          8



- 23 -
Amnex I
Page 5
HONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
Million CP Outstanding End Period
1.981          1982           1983
Money Supply and Quasi-money                             1843           2303            2887
Bank Credit to Public Sector                             3848           4883           6142
Bank Credit to Private Sector                             130            149             171
Percentages or Index Numbers
1981           1982           1983
Money Supply and Quasi-money                               31             25              25
Bank Credit to Public Sector                               50             46              30
Bank Credit to Private Sector                              -6             15              15
Implicit GDP Deflator                                      12             17              23
Producer prices (agriculture)                               2             16               -
% of GDP
1981           1982           1983
Money Supply and Qusi-money                                28             29              31
Bank Credit to Public Sector                               58             61              65
Bank Credit to Private Sector                               2              2               2
BALANCE OF PAYMENIS
USS Hill.
1981           1982           1983
Export of Goods + NFS                                    22.2           17.4           15.7
Import of Goods + NFS                                    63.2           84.2           70.6
Resource Cap (deficit -)                                -41.0          -66.8           -55.3
Net lmv. Inc. & N. Transfers                             17.9           31.6           30.2
Balance On Current Account                              -23.1          -35.2          -25.1
Capital                                                  24.2           24.1           15.2
Others (SDR + omissions)                                 -7.5           -8.7            -7.1
Overall Balance                                          -6.4          -19.8          -17.0
Reserve Variations (decrease -)                          -2.2          -15.8          -13.0
% of GDP
1981           1982           1983
Exports of Goods + NFS                                     13             10              10
Import of Goods + NFS                                      36             49            .46
Resource Gap (deficit -)                                  -23            -39             -36
Balance on Current Account                                -13            -20             -16
Capital                                                    14             14             10
Overall Balance                                          -.04            -3l             -I1



- 2& -
Pae 6
-RIS           EDS   (AVEURAE 1979-3)
Ms MMl.        %
GP    _u            3.6         30.2
Pal2 products       2.0         16.8
Casboa nuts         0.9          7.6
Flshig Producta     3.7         31.1
Wood Products       0.7          5.9
Otbers              1.0          8s1.
Total             11.9       100.0
EZIEMAL D.M  DECE1U 1963
Public Debt aDisbursed, Intl. Glrteed) 
-Qiaranted Private Db--
Tatal OlstudIM ad Disbrsed                 163.1
DMB SERIC RATIO FMR 1983
Public Debt, Thcl. Qzawanteed                  59.0
Total Outstanding and Disbursed                 59.0
MNRDI'DA IMD1G.^ ADST 31, L986  (MllIon MS)
DB       IDA
outstamdlng and Disbursed              0.0    29.64-
Undisbursed                            0_0    29.26
Outstanding Inludisngs
Ubdisbursed                          0.0    58.90
RBAE OF  DCAGE
Annual Average
(GP per USS)
1979                   33.9
1980                   33.8
1981                   37.3
1982                   39.9
1983                   412



- 25 -
GffIA-BISSUA
REOONS4UcXIO      0  cREDT
A. Stateent of DA Credits
(as of Septemer 30, 198')
Credit No.  Year      Borrower             Ppose                    mount                       Undisbursed 1
(less c     a
878-B    1979        Guinea-Bissau        Roads I                    9.0                          0.06
1095-CUB    1981      Guinea-Bissa         Petroleum Exploration 1    6.8                          0.55
133-CUB    1983       Gminea-Bissau        Petroleum Exploration II  13.1                          2.29
1392-WB    1983       Guinea-Bissau        Bissau Port               16.0                        13.12
2 73-6UB    198S  2   Guinea-Bissau        Roads II                   4.0                         4.00
SF18-GUB    198 2   Guinea-Bissau          Roads II                   1.0                         4.00
1517-6DB    1985    CGuinea-lissan         Tecbnical Assistance       6.0                          6.00
total                                          58.9                        30.02
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                          -a.9
Total undisbursed                                                          30.02
_ The status of the projects listed in Part A above is described in a separate report o. tll Bank/IDA projects
in execution. This report is updated twice yearly and is circulated to the Executive Di.. *i rs on April 30
$  and October 31 of each year.
'IDA Credits after 1980 and Special Fund Credits are denominated in
Special Drawing Rights. U.S. dollar amounts in table are calculated using
exchange rates prevailing at time of credit negotiations.
2Not yet effective
,.& I..............



- 26 -
Annex m
GUINEA-BISSAU
ERGENCY IPORT CREDIT
SluPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Tinetable of Key Events
Date of first presentation to the Bank  March 1984
Date of Appraisal Mission                 July 1984
Date of Completion of Negotiations    November 1984
Planned Date of Effectiveness         December 1984
Section II     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III    Special Conditions
(a) The local counterpart funds generated by the Credit to be
deposited in a Government account in the National Bank of
Guinea-Bissau and used to help finance recurrent and capital
costs of priority projects in the economic recovery program
(para. 40).
(b) A special account will be established by the BNG with a foreign
correspondent bank satisfactory to the Association, which after
an initial disbursement would be replenished by IDA on the
basis of satisfactory evidence that expenditures financed out
of the special account were eligible for financing and goods
were purchased in accordance with agreed procurement procedures
(para. 46).
(c) A Subsidiary Agreement shall have been entered into between the
Borrower and the BNG (para. 42).
(d) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Swiss
Contribution have been fulfilled (para. 40).






- 27 -
p
STATI STICAL   TABLE S
JAl    Gane   as   Voblume, ?uob3esume by
- State  trepLds. and Fa      .te Pies
for Th1b Cros. 1978-83 ................... pW  28
TMLE 2 :       Cbne-B s ag :: Fisbes Pra&xctlm aud
&p,8ts, L978-83 ............... p a 29
TA5E3:  6: brrtt Gkem t
Dwn3, 19o834 ..................p              30
TALE 4 :G6bde5-el :   rment GDuernwmt
T''P----si    1984 ....................... ..    31
TiASE 5:  Q    au_3s~   Cuira  Qin t
OpectIgu, 1981-4 ...... ..... pe  32
hUZ 6 G  :Gb              cpz-Bss aa : *, f.ob.,
1979-84 .    .... ..       ............. p     33
-  .EL 7: Qztma-Blssaz: Tqports, c.i_f.,
198D-84    p       a. ..... .........pop 34



- 28 -
TABLF 1
GJInEA-BISSAU: VOWiME. PURCASES MAME BY STAE
*EpRRMSES. AND FAIK-GATE PRICES
FOR AIN aROPS. 1978-83
(Volime and purchases in thousands of toos:
prices in Qzlnea-Bissau pesos per kilogrem)
1978        1979        3980        1981       1982       1983
Rice (volume)                         110.0         97.0        42.0       90.0        95.0       85.0
Purchases by state enterprises       1.9         11_1         4.7        1.4         3.6        2.6
Faragate prices                      5.0          7.5         7.5        7.5         8.5        8.5
Other cereals (volume)                 57.0         50.0        30.0       46.0        46.0       47.5
Groundnuts (volume)                    24.0         22.0        20.0       30.0        35.0       22.0
Purchases by state enterprises      18.6         18.4        17.6         6.5       18.4       17.4
Farugate prices                      5.2          7.5         7.5        7.5         9.0        9.0
Palm kernls (volume)                    ...                                  ...        ...
Purcbases by state enterprises       8.0          8.1         8.8        8.7         9.5        6.2
Farugate prices                      4.6          5.5         5.5         5.5        6.0        6.0
Cashbe nuts (volume)                    ...          ...         ...
Purchases by state enterprises        0.5         0.9         1.0         2.5        3.4        4.7
Farmuate prices                       5.7         6.1         6.9         8.6        9.5        9.5
Cotton (volume)                         0.9          0.9         1.9        1.2         1.5        1.3
Farmgate prices: Grade 1                                                            14.0       14.0
Farugate prices: Grade 2                                                             9.0        9.0
Source : Data provided by the Guinea-Nissan authorities.



- 29 -
TAKE 2
GUnEA-BISSAU: FISHERIES PRODUCTION AD EXPORS. 1978-83
(Volum  in metric tons)
1978           1979           1980          1981           1982          1983
Total production                5412            5202           4974           6415          6354          5763
Industrial                  3852           3558            2891          4177          4179           3470
Fish                    3080           2781            2286          3167          2926           2793
ShrimP                   772            777             605          1010          1253            677
Artisanal                     60             144            583           738           675            793
Traditional                 1500           1500            1500          1500          1500           1500
1504           1536            775          2285           2332          1253
Fish                     838            778             208          1302          1084            723
ShrIp                    666            758             567           983          1248            530
Imports                           85             108            17C           199             70           105     -.
Domestic consumption            3993            3774           4369          4329           4092          4615
Soorces: Data provided by the Guinea-Bissau authorities.



- 30 -
TABLE 3
GUIIEk-BISSAU : CURRENT COVERUIENT REVENUES. 1983-84
(In millions of Guinea-Bissau pesos)
Realization
Estimated                Budgeted      Percentage
1983                   1984          1984       1983    1984
CURRENT REVENUES                        Total First Semester  First Semester                  (5)-    (6)-
(1)       (2)              (3)            (4)      (2)/(1) (3)(4
1. Income Taxes                         194.3      I18.0            173.0          331.6     60.7    52.2
-11     Business profits              30.0       13.3             12.8           65.3     44.3    19.6
1-2     Rental income                 13.0        7.9              8.3           20.5     60.8    40.5
1.3     Salaries and fees             12.0        6.5             57.4          103.6     54.2    55.5
1.4     Complementary tax             35.0        4.2              0.6           35.0     12.0      1.7
1.5     Solidarity fund tax           75.0       61.1             83.8           72.0     81.5   116.4
1.6     Other income taxes            29.3       25.0             10.1           35.2     85.3    28.7
2. Indirect Taxes                       572.2      257.5            276.0         1007.2     45.0    27.4
2.1     Import duties                197.0       93.7             98.7         408.0      47.6    24.2
2.2     Export taxes                  30.0       12.4             33.5          20.0.    41.3   167.5
2.3     Consumption taxes on:        240.0      102.4             88.8         440.0      42.7    20.2
2.3.1      imported goods          (136.8)     (64.0)           (38.9)        (280.0)   (46.8)  (13.9)
2.3.2      domestic goods          (103.2)     (38.4)           (49.9)        (160.0)   (37.2)  (31.2)
2.4     Other consumption taxes      105.2       49.0             55.0          139.2     46.6    39.5
3. Licenses and Other Taxes              7L.7       59.7            308.8          307.8     83.3   100.3
3.1     Other taxes                   40.8       15.9            105.2          130.7     39.0    80.5
3.2     Licenses                      30.0       43.0            175.2          150.0    143.3   316.8
3.3     Fines and Penalties            0.9        0.8             28.4           27.1     88.9   101.8
4. Other Revenues                       182.4       25.9            150.4           78.3     14.2   192.1
4.1      Property revenues           130.5         -                -            45.0        -       -
4.2     Others                        51.9       25.9            150.4           33.3     49.4   451.7
5. TIotal                              1020.6      461.1            908.2         1724.9     45.2    52.7
Source : Ministry of Finance.



- 31 -
TABLE 4
GUINE&-BISSAU   CURRENT GOVERNU}ET EXPENDIIURES AND DEBT ANONTIIAIION. 1984
(In millions of Euinea-Bissau pesos)
Realization
Estimated                 Budgeted            Percentage
l984                    1984                  1984
First Semester     Total   First Semester
(1)             (2)         (3)           (4)-(1)/(3)
1. Salaries and wages                                 912.5           2037.7    1018.9              89.6
2. Goods and services                                340.3           1070.5       535.2              63.6
2.1      Travel expenditure                         56.1           106.6        53.3            105.3
2.2      Others                                    284.2           963.9      481.9               59.0
3. Transfers                                         103.5            309.0      154.5              67.0
3.1      To Government employees and
other individuals                       88.5            154.5       77.2             114.6
3.2      To Social Security and Regional
Administration                          10.4             93.1       46.6              22.3
3.3      To Public Enterprises                       3.7            27.5       10.7              34.6
3.4      To international organizations             0.9             39.9       25.0               3.6
4. Interest                                            88.5           171.0        85.5             103.5
5. Debt amortization                                 336.4            440.7      220.4             152.6
6. Total                                            1781.2           4028.9     2014.5              88.4
Source  Ministry of Finance.



- 32 -
*1                                                       UTAKLE 5
GUINEA-ISSAU: CENTAL GOVERIENT CURRENT OPERATIONS. 1981-84
(in millions of Gilnea-Bissau pesos)
Actual          Estimated          Budget
1981.   1982        1983              1984
Budgetary revenues                         928    928          1023              1725
Tax revenue                              714    787           829              1339
Income taxes                          137    127           137               225
Taes on international trade            369    477          459               819
Consumption tax on domestic goods      97      84          105               160
Other                                 111    102           128               135
Non-tax revenue                          214    141           194               386
Current expenditure                       1785    2146         2289              3588
Wages and salaries                      1059    1188         1268              2038
Other goods and services                 439    652           670              1 0on
Transfers                                 242    268          321               309
Tnterest on public debt                   45      38           29               171
Current deficit (-)                       -857  -1218         -1266             -1863
L--M                   y
Source: Ministry of Finance.



- 33 -
TABLE 6
GUInUA-BISSAU : EXPOXRS. F.O.B.. 1979-84
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual                              Estimated
1979      1980       1981      1982            1983                 1984
Total First Semester  First Semester
Agricultural products         9.3        5.7        7.7       6.7      6.1         2.5             7.5
Groundauts                  6.2        2.9        2.4       3.3      3.4        0.8              3.1
Shelled                  6.1        2.7        2.2       3.2      3.4        0.8              1.3
Unshelled                 -         0.1        0.1        -        -          -               1.8
Residue                  0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1       -           -               -
Palm products               2.9        2.0        2.4       1.6      1.3        0.5              1.1
Palm kernels             2.8        1.9        2.4       1.6      1.3        0.5              1.0
Palm oil                 0.1        0.1         -         -       0.1         -               0.1
Cashew nuts                 0.2        0.4        1.5       1.1     1.2         1.2              2.4
Cotton                       -         0.4        1.3       0.7       -          -               0.9
Other                        -          -         0.1        -       0.2         -
FishinK products              3.9        3.9        4.6       4.3     2.0         0.8              2.2
Fish                        0.3        0.4        0.6       0.4      0.2        0.8              1.7
Shrimp                      3.4        3.3        3.8       3.8     1.7          -               0.4
Other                       0.2        0.2        0.2       0.1      0.1         -               0.1        -.
Wood products                 0.6        0.9        1.0       0.6     0.4          -               0.3
_
Sawn wood                   0.4        0.8        0.8      0.4       -           -               0.3
Logs                        0.1        0.1        0.1       0.2      0.X         -                -
Other                       0.1         -         0.1        -        -          -                -
Other                         0.3        0.8        0.6       0.2      0.1         -               0.3
Total                14.1       31.3       13.9      11.8      8.6        3.3             10.3
Source: National Bank of Guinea-Bissau.



- 34 -
TABLE 7
GUINEA-BISSAU : IMPORIS. C.I.F.. 1980-84
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
ir
Actual                                   Estimated
1980       1981       1982               1983                  31984
Total First Semester       First Semester
Food                               10.0       13.1       10.7        31.0        5.6                  2.2
Rice                              4.3        8.8        7.2         7.1        3.4                 0.8
Uheat flour                       0.4        0.5        1.1         0.3        0.3                  0.4
Dairy products                    1.4        0.7        0.5         0.8        0.3                 0.2
Sugar                             0.9        1.4        1.1         1.2        1.2                 0.2
Other                             3.0        1.7        0.8         1.0        0.4                 0.6
Beveragmes and tobacco              1.2        1.0        1.0         0.9        0.4                 0.1
Beverages                         0.5        0.5        0.5         0.7        0.2                 0.1
Tobacco                           0.7        0.5        0.5         0.2        0.2                  -
Other consuser goods                6.0        9.1       10.1         7.6        3.7                 1.9
Petroleum products                 10.7        8.6       11.3         7.5        1.5                 5.0
Diesel and gasoline               9.7        8.2       10.6         6.5        1.3                 4.6
Other                             0.9        0.4        0.7         1.0        0.2                 0.4
Construction material               2.0        2.2        3.7         1.1        0.6                 1.6
or
*   Transportation equipment           12.1        8.7        8.9         7.1        4.1                  1.3
Vehicles                         10.4        4.5        5.3         4.7        2.7                 0.8
Other                             1.8        4.2        3.6         2.4        1.3                  0.5
Machinery and electrical
equipment                          6.6        8.4        6.7         2.6        1.8                 1.5
Other 1/                           19.4        6.1       15.9        17.1        4.0                  1.8
Total                       68.0       57.2       68.3        54.9       21.7                15.4
Sources: National Bank of Guinea-Bissau.
1/ Includes non-recorded imports of capital goods financed with foreign aid.



r
1'         lSi ~1630r                      164D0                           '0
S          E          N           E          G
U..
I --
'\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~
trw                                     To8A' T
oL)aTiinQas  'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tl
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                  ' ___-'t
,~~~~~~~ ~~                         ~~~~~~  I t,;<  I
VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A A' Tic~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
j,  -_ ,,         -     -- ,          '       ' 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 25N                                   > 
*1                              0~~~~~
i -c^q,vveM 1,- -} .--S ,;. _-i. - - <;_- o~~I- {--'
OCUINEA                                                 -
_~                     / bf4            ,lRhOI    
trw                                 siedf Ar FPQRAI
_          ;MOAIadana v or
.~~~~~~~~~~~d aw iAwa   on &*pt  O
.B155AU~ ~ ~ ~ AN FI    -
jI    Wo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
L       cfs&ck            ,                          0 oe 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                        _ _  _    _ _  _ _
,' ~~~~~~~~O                  A O I  -*  **/  ._-S
r                  .                  -                          0     -
5t   F          ' L'



IBRD- 15779R
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1- 'A 19111124X0
G             A               L
h  Dakaer                            e Doter               1b Daaer
Me               ;(r                                                                                                                          1230lbi  iSe;   Pmo 
--                                                              . .   ., . . . . . ..                                           - - - - - - 
-~~ ~ ~~~~~~ I I'                                                             R   r    - fUultmx
\        / Jfnbpad^,/l
m padaQb  G-QuB i               eb    *_ntb                                                                                      C, <.   k 
'0. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~r
.--.    /                                                                                        REPBLC> OF GUINA -eroe B ISAU
UrzneF; -                                 /                                                 REULC AA GUN A T                            B/mSS/A----UD1 <
X                                                                                                                               %    -G              
Cat6                           (e 1C i/                                                                                         O
I-lonforim                                                       -- -                 Unpave roads--          () Ra O Gor
b6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ae rocds do                                                      on oet   ot
\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETRAzD A aJ.S eseott DEERRA                                                    FORTO 111 TRRA C/ORAL
-- ^ lv L- 4ty ______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Feeder roads                                                                             Internotiewal adrpor
'~     ~ ~ ~~CCN -                                                                              River#NHs RUA*    NatrnaLl capiOtal
.: s                                              /u flat s                                                         13Re ional baundaites
t                  ,~ ~~~0 0O     2              30 KILMEER
M0           0          40 LE0
-  -w                 v                     W<                  U 30                                       1r00



