AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-14 GUB
Project Agreement
(Supplementary Reconstruction Import Credit)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
and
BANCO NACIONAL DA GUINE - BISSAU
Dated                             , 1986


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-14 GUB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator) and
BANCO NACIONAL DA GUINE-BISSAU (BNG).
WHEREAS (A) by the African Facility Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Republic of Guinea - Bissau (the Borrower)
and the Administrator, the Administrator has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
BNG agree to undertake such obligations toward the Administrator
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BNG, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit
provided for under the African Facility Credit Agreement will be
made available to BNG on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS BNG, in consideration of the Administrator's
entering into the African Facility Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the African Facility Credit Agreement,
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BNG declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the African Facility


﻿- 2 -
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of    the  goods  and  consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to the eligibility
restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of the African
Facility Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. BNG shall:
(a) open in the name of the Borrower and thereafter main-
tain the Counterpart Funds Account referred to in Section
3.03 (a) of the African Facility Credit Agreement; and
(b) deposit in such Counterpart Funds Account the local
currency funds generated from the sale of foreign exchange under
the African Facility Credit.
Section 2.04 BNG shall:
(a) assist and support UGAB in the coordination, monitoring
and supervision of all Project activities; and
(b) provide UGAB, promptly as needed, with such qualified
and experienced staff, facilities, funds and other resources as
shall be required for the efficient management and operation of
UGAB.
Section 2.05. (a) BNG shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b) BNG shall furnish to the Administrator, as soon
as available, the program referred to in paragraph II.10. of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. BNG shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Administrator shall
otherwise agree, BNG shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BNG shall, at the request of the Adminis-
trator, exchange views with the Administrator with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the African Facility Credit.
(b) BNG shall promptly inform the Administrator of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the African Facility Credit, or the performance by BNG of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BNG shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) BNG shall:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (ba-
lance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning said accounts and financial state-
ments as well as the audit thereof and said
records, as the Administrator shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, BNG shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Adminis-
trator has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
African Facility Credit Account was made, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Administrator's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the African Facility Credit
Agreement becomes effective.


﻿- 5 -
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Administrator and of BNG thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the African Facility Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii) the date 10 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the African Facility Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Administrator shall promptly notify
BNG of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-6-
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BNG:
Banco Nacional da Guin6 - Bissau
38 Avenida Amilcar Cabral
Bissau
Republic of Guinea - Bissau
Cable address:                    Telex:
BANGUING                         241 BNG - BI
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BNG may be taken or executed by the
Minister-Governor of BNG or such other person or persons as
BNG shall designate in writing, and BNG shall furnish to the
Administrator sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL
FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
BANCO NACIONAL DA GUINE - BISSAU
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Execution Procedures
I.   Project Responsibility
1.   The overall responsibility for the execution and administra-
tion of the Project will rest with BNG.
2.   UGAB will coordinate, monitor and supervise all Project
activities.
II. Import Procedures
1.   Goods to be imported for the Project will be identified by
UGAB.
2.   Merchants and   suppliers applying   to  bid  for  award  of
contracts for the importation of goods under the Project must
first meet eligibility criteria as well as other requirements of
the Project, satisfactory to the Administrator, in order to
qualify to bid for such contracts.
3.   Import proposals from merchants and suppliers will be sub-
mitted to the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism (MCT) and must
include standardized lists of goods to be imported, indicating
detailed specifications, expected CIF or C&F prices and the total
amount of imports applied for in U.S. dollars.
4.   MCT will review such proposals jointly, as necessary, with
UGAB's Technical Secretariat to ensure: (i) that goods to be
imported are eligible for financing under the Project and conform
to the sector and commodity allocations provided for under the
African Facility Credit'and with the type and volume of services
which the merchant or supplier can provide; and (ii) that speci-
fications of such goods are correct and truly reflect respective
scarcities. Proposals submitted to MCT and UGAB, as necessary,
will be expeditiously reviewed and in any case within 30 days of
the deadline for the submission thereof.
5.   Imports contract awards will be made by MCT in consultation
with UGAB to merchants and suppliers in the public and private
sector without distinction, solely on the basis of such persons'
meeting the eligibility criteria and other requirements of the
Project, referred to in paragraph 11.2 of this Schedule.


﻿- 9 -
6.   An  imports contract award will entitle      a merchant or
supplier to apply to MCT for a BRPI. MCT will act expeditiously
to issue the BRPI and in any case within fifteen working days of
the application therefor.
7.   A BRPI will be submitted by a merchant or supplier to BNG
which on the basis of the BRPI, and after clearance by UGAB, will
issue on behalf of such merchant or supplier a letter of credit,
as necessary. To enable UGAB to monitor import processing activi-
ties under the Project, BNG will promptly inform UGAB of the
issuance, negotiation, extension or cancellation of letters of
credit required for the Project.
8.   Merchants will deposit local currency counterpart funds with
BNG as and when payments are made for imported goods.
9.   BNG will maintain records showing all local currency funds
paid into the Counterpart Funds Account pursuant to Section
3.03 (b) of the African Facility Credit Agreement and BNG will
ensure the use of said funds only for the purposes referred to in
said Section.
10. UGAB will receive from MCT a program for distributing
imported goods under the Project to the various regions and bene-
ficiaries.
11. UGAB will prepare quarterly progress reports on the use of
the African Facility Credit. The said reports will be submitted
by UGAB to the National Commission for Economic Control.
12. The procurement procedures applied will be in accordance
with Schedule 2 to this Agreement. UGAB in coordination with MCT
will ensure that, to     the extent possible, orders are bulked
across the sectors and importers.
III. Distribution and Pricing
BNG will assist MCT and UGAB in ensuring the expeditious
and efficient distribution of goods, their utilization according
to Project objectives, and their resale at prices which are no
lower than the prevailing international prices for such goods
at the appropriate exchange rate. UGAB will cause to be carried


﻿- 10 -
out systematic spot-checks to control the utilization of goods
imported for the Project. For the purposes of this paragraph,
the "appropriate exchange rate" means the most depreciated legal
exchange rate prevailing on the date of purchase of such goods by
the importer and applicable to pertinent transactions.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement of Goods and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, and subject to the
eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of the
African Facility Credit Agreement, goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifica-
tions:
(a) All references in the Guidelines to the Bank and to
loans shall be deemed to be references to the Administrator and
to the African Facility Credit, respectively.
(b) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 2.44) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
prequalification or to bid; such advertisements should be
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of
the following forms:
(i) a   notice  in   the  United  Nations  publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred, to in these Guidelines that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."


﻿- 12 -
(c) The following sentence is added at the end of para-
graph 2.21 of the Guidelines: "As a further alternative, bidding
documents may require the bidder to state the bid price in a
single currency used in international trade and specified in the
bidding documents."
(d) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   The eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement shall be stated in the tender documents for the
procurement of such goods.
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods to be procured under contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $500,000 shall be awarded following the
solicitation and evaluation of not less than three quotations
from reputable suppliers.
2.   Goods to be procured under contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $100,000 (but not exceeding an aggregate
amount of $1,000,000) may be purchased directly from suppliers
when a demonstrated urgency so requires.
3.   Goods which are proprietary items may be purchased directly
from suppliers.
4.   Goods procured pursuant to the rules of this Part B are sub-
ject to the eligibility requirements set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of the African Facility Credit Agreement.
Part C.   Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply
with the following modification: the words "the Borrower" should
be read to mean "BNG". Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modi-
fied to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Administrator prior


﻿- 13 -
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply with the following
modification: the words "the Borrower" should be read to mean
"BNG". Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Administrator
pursuant to said paragraph 4 shall be furnished to the
Administrator as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 (the Special Account Schedule) to the
African Facility Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a), and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Admin-
istrator has authorized withdrawals from the African Facility
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 3.01 (c)
(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist BNG in carrying out the Project, BNG
shall employ procurement, disbursement, delivery and reception
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981. For the purposes of the African Facility
Credit Agreement, referenqes in these Guidelines to the Bank and
to loans shall be deemed to be to the Administrator and to the
African Facility Credit, respectively.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the     L      day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


