CREDIT NUMBER51-0 GUB
OFFICIAL
DOCIUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Reconstruction Import Credit)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANCO NACIONAL DA GUINE-BISSAU
Dated   2    -4..   1e            , 1984


﻿CREDIT MUMBER I - OGUB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     1 .     , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and BANCO NACIONAL DA GUINE-BISSAU (hereinafter
called BNG).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Guinea-Bissau (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 10,100,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that BNG agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by an agreement (hereinafter called the Swiss Contribu-
tion Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Government  of   the  Swiss  Confederation  (hereinafter  called
Switzerland), Switzerland has agreed to make a non-reimbursable
contribution in an amount equivalent to four million five hundred
thousand Swiss Francs (SWF 4,500,000) (hereinafter called the
Swiss Contribution) to assist in financing the Project.
(C) by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BNG, the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution will be made available to BNG on the terms and con-
ditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BNG, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BNG declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
described in said Schedule, and in accordance with Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative and financial practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist BNG in carrying out the
Project BNG shall employ consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. BNG shall:
(a) open in the name of the Borrower and thereafter main-
tain the Counterpart Funds Account referred to in Section 3.02
(a) of the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) deposit in such Counterpart Funds Account the local
currency funds generated from the sale of foreign exchange under
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
Section 2.04. BNG shall:
(a) assist and support UGAB in the coordination, monitoring
and supervision of all Project activities; and
(b)  provide UGAB, promptly as needed, with such qualified
and experienced staff, facilities, funds and other resources as
shall be required for the efficient management and operation of
UGAB.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association and Switzerland
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. (a) BNG undertakes to insure, or cause to be
insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution made available to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by BNG to replace or repair such goods.
(b) BNG shall cause all goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution made available to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.07. (a) BNG shall: (i) maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Proj-
ect, to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution, and to dis-
close their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such pro-
ceeds and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Upon the award by BNG of any contract for goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss Contri-
bution, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BNG and the
Association, BNG shall, with the assistance of the Borrower, pre-
pare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, BNG
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreemeut and the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-4-
(d) BNG shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine any records and documents of BNG relevant to the Project.
Section 2.08. BNG shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, BNG shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thers:f.
Section  2.09.  (a) BNG   shall, at    the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) BNG shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution, or the performance by BNG
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BNG shall maintain records and separate
accounts, including the Counterpart Funds Account and a separate
account for the Swiss Contribution, adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations, financial condition and resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, BNG shall: (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested on
the basis of statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one
year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested on the
basis of statementg of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. BNG shall:
(a) have the accounts referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and financial statements for each fiscal year audited,


﻿-5-
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year (i) the accounts and records referred to in paragraph (a)
hereof for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds withdrawn
on the basis of statements of expenditures have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BNG thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the dates on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms or a date 10 years after
the date of this Agreement.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿- 6 -
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BNG:
Banco Nacional da Guine-Bissau
38 Avenida Amilcar Cabral
Bissau
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Cable address:                   Telex:
BANGUINE                        241 BNG-BI
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BNG may be taken or executed by the
Minister-Governor of BNG or such other person or persons as he
shall designate in writing, and BNG shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
BANCO NACIONAL DA GUINE-BISSAU
By     /                       Rpsti
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Project Execution Procedures
Project Responsibility
1.   The overall responsibility for the execution and administra-
tion of the Project will rest with BNG.
2.   UGAB will coordinate, monitor and supervise all Project
activities.
Import Procedures
1.   Goods to be imported for the Project will be identified by
UGAB on the basis of the Borrower's current import program
designed to support the Economic Recovery Program.
2.   UGAB will establish eligibility criteria which merchants and
suppliers applying to bid for award of contracts for the importa-
tion of goods under the Project must first meet to qualify to bid
for such contracts. All such eligibility criteria shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
3.   Import proposals from merchants and suppliers will be sub-
mitted to the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism (MCT) and must
include standardized lists of goods to be imported, indicating
detailed specifications, expected FOB or CF prices and the total
amount of imports applied for in U.S. dollars.
4.   MCT will review such proposals jointly, as necessary, with
UGAB's Technical Secretariat to ensure: (i) that goods to be
imported are eligible for financing under the Project and conform
to the sector and commodity allocations provided for under the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution and with the type and volume of
services which the merchant or supplier can provide; and (ii)
that specifications of such goods are correct and truly reflect
respective scarcities. Proposals submitted to MCT and UGAB, as
necessary, shall be expeditiously reviewed and in any case within
eight working days of the deadline for the submission thereof.
5.   Imports contract awards will be made by MCT in consultation
with UGAB to merchants and suppliers meeting the eligibility
criteria and other requirements of the Project.


﻿- 9 -
6.   An imports contract award shall entitle a merchant or
supplier to apply to MCT for an import license (BRPI). MCT shall
act expeditiously to issue the BRPI and in any case within
fifteen working days of the application therefor.
7.   A BRPI will be submitted by a merchant or supplier to BNG
which on the basis of the BRPI, and after clearance by UGAB, will
issue on behalf of such merchant or supplier a letter of credit,
as necessary. To enable UGAB to monitor import processing activi-
ties under the Project, BNG will promptly inform UGAB of the
issuance, negotiation, extension or cancellation of letters of
credit required for the Project.
8.   In cases where imports contracts are awarded directly to
foreign suppliers, MCT will designate state enterprises to act as
agents of such suppliers.
9.   Merchants will deposit local currency counterpart funds with
BNG as and when payments are made for imported goods.
10. BNG will maintain records showing all local currency funds
paid into the Counterpart Funds Account pursuant to Section 3.02
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement and BNG will ensure the
use of said funds only for the purposes referred to in said Sec-
tion.
11. UGAB will receive from MCT a program for distributing
imported goods under the Project to the various regions and bene-
ficiaries.
12. UGAB will prepare quarterly progress reports on the use of
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution. The said reports will be
submitted by UGAB to the National Commission for Economic Affairs
and all foreign aid donors participating in the Project.
13. The procurement procedures applied will be in accordance
with Schedule 2 to this Agreement. BNG will ensure that, to
the extent possible, orders are bulked across the sectors and
importers.
Distribution and Pricing
BNG will assist MCT and UGAB in ensuring the expeditious and
efficient distribution of goods, their utilization according to
Project objectives, and their sale at prices which reflect their


﻿- 10 -
international prices. BNG will cause to be carried out systematic
spot-checks to control the utilization of goods imported for the
Project.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more each, shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines), subject to
the following modifications:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines and
the substitution therefor of the following:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 2.44) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
prequalification or to bid; such advertisements should be
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of
the following forms;
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition of the following sentence at the end of
paragraph 2.20 of the Guidelines: "As an alternative, bidding
documents may require the bidder to state the bid price in a
single currency used in international trade and specified in the
bidding document."
(c) By the deletion of paragraph 2.55 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 12 -
2.   Goods to be procured under contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $500,000 shall be awarded following the
solicitation and evaluation of not less than three quotations
from reputable suppliers.
3.   Goods to be procured under contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $100,000 (but not exceeding an aggregate
amount of $2,000,000) may be purchased directly from suppliers
when a demonstrated urgency so requires.
4.   Goods which are proprietary items may be purchased directly
from suppliers.
5.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply with
the following modification: for the words "the Borrower" should
be read the word "BNG"; provided, however, that where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the
Special Account, the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to para-
graph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceeding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply with the following
modification: for the words "the Borrower" should be read the
word "BNG"; provided, however, that where payments for such con-
tract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account,
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association, pursuant to paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines together with the other information specified therein,
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 (the Special
Account Schedule) to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or the


﻿- 13 -
Swiss Contributions Account on the basis of statements of expen-
diture.
6.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  _ML4_. day of           . ,
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


