Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20679
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(28307)
ONA
GRANT
FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR AN
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASEOUT PROJECT
June 28, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 15, 1995)
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Leva (BL)
BL 1 = US$ 0.014
US$ 1.00 = 68.095 BL
(Exchange Rate Effective June 9, 2000
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Leva (BGN)
BGN = US$ 0.49
US$ 1.00 = 2.035 BGN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFC          Chlorofluorocarbon
OTF   =      Ozone Task Force
ODS  =       Ozone Depleteing Substances
GEF   =      Global Environment Facility
MoEW =       Ministry of Environment and Water
LFA   =      Local Financial Agent
STAP =       Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
QAG  =       Quality Assurance Group
MP    =      Montreal Protocol
NGO  =       Non-governmental Organization
EU    =      European Union
GDP  =       Gross Domestic Product
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, (ECAVP)
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew Vorkink, (ECC05)
Sector Director:    Kevin M. Cleaver, (ECSSD)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sudipto Sarkar, (ECSIN)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of Bulgaria
Ozone Depleting Substances Phaseout Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      13
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   17
10. Additional Information                                                           20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 29
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P039376                                       Project Nanme: ODS PHASEOUT
Team Leader: Sudipto Sarkar                               I TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Tyvpe. Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 28, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ODS PHASEOUT                                   L/C/TF Nuimber: 28307
Country/Department: BULGARIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: 11 - Industrial Adjustment; VP - Pollution Control!
Waste Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/15/94                                Effective: 12/29/95            05/14/96
Appraisal:  04/15/95                                  MTR:
Approval:  11/09/95                                Closing: 10/31/98             04/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Government of Bulgaria/Ministry of Environment and Water
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Cotntry Manager:     Andrew Vorkink                             Rachel Lomax
Sector Manager:      Kevin Cleaver                              James Goering
Team Leader at ICR:   Sudipto Sarkar                            Sudipto Sarkar
ICR Primary Author:   Sudipto Sarkar; Paola Meta;
Krisztina Kiss
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilito: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
Bulgaria has committed itself to phase-out Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) as per the Vienna
Convention and the Montreal Protocol (MP) and their subsequent amendments. To this effect, in 1994
Bulgaria, with assistance from the Danish Government, prepared a Countiy Program which outlined a
ODS phase-out strategy and defined priority sub-projects. To help implement the Country Program, the
Bulgarian Government requested financial assistance in the form of grants from the Global Environment
Facility (GEF). The Bank, as an implementing agency for GEF, assisted in the preparation and
implementation of the ODS phase-out project which comprised a number of sub-projects. The key
milestones of the project are presented below:
Project Preparation Begins (first mission)   -  September 1994
Project Appraised                     -     April 1995
GEF Council Approval                  -     May 1995
GEF Secretariat Endorsement           -     September 1995
Negotiations                          -     September 1995
Board Approval                        -     November 1995
Grant Signed                          -     December 1995
Grant Effectiveness                   -     May 1996
Original Closing Date                 -     October 31, 1998
Revised Closing Date (first extension)  -   October 31, 1999
Revised Closing Date (second extension)   -  April 30, 2000
The project objectives were defined to assist Bulgaria to effectively meet its obligations towards the
Montreal Protocol. The design of the project and implementation arrangements took into account the
capacity to effectively execute the project. Technical Assistance was provided to ensure that the objectives
of the project were met. Also, the sustainability of the investments was a significant factor in the project
design considerations.
Objective
The objective of the project was to assist Bulgaria's transition into non chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)
technology which will not harm the earth's ozone layer. This objective would be met by: (a) supporting
priority sub-projects identified in the Country Program for technology conversion to non-CFC materials;
(b) initiating CFC recovery, reclamation, and recycling operations; and (c) strengthening the institutional
capacity of the Ozone Task Force (OTF) in the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW).
Currently, there is no consumption of CFC in the country making Bulgaria fully compliant with its
obligation towards the Montreal Protocol.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objective was not revised.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
At appraisal, the project comprised of technology conversion, technical assistance, and an institutional
strengthening component. In addition to the sub-projects described below, the Country Program included
sub-projects in enterprises DZU, Opticoelectron, and a compressor sub-project in enterprise VMZ. At
appraisal, enterprises DZU and Opticoelectron were excluded because of poor financial standing and
uncertain future. The compressor sub-project in VMZ was not included since there was no production
prior to appraisal and thus did not meet the Montreal Protocol criteria for phasing out existing ODS
consumption.
Technology Conversion
The project financed twelve technology conversion sub-projects in the refrigeration, foam, and solvent
sectors for the following seven enterprises:
9 MRAZ - There were three sub-projects in the enterprise designed to eliminate the annual ODS
consumption by 128 Tons: i) Sub-project NR-1 where an annual consumption of 14 Tons of CFC-12
would be replaced by HFC- 134a as a refrigerant in domestic refrigerators; ii) Sub-project NR-2 where
an annual consumption of 44 Tons of CFC-11 would be replaced by cyclopentane to produce
insulation foam for refrigerators; and iii) Sub-project NR-3 where an annual consumption of 70 Tons
of CFC-12 and CFC-502 would be replaced with HFC-134a and HFC-404a in the production of
compressors and condensing units for conmmercial refrigerators.
*   Frigo - There were two sub-projects in the enterprise designed to eliminate the annual ODS
consumption by 17 Tons: i) Sub-project NR4 where an annual consumption of 5 Tons of CFC-12
would be replaced by HFC-134a in commercial refrigerators; and ii) Sub-project NR-5 where an
annual consumption of 12 Tons of CFC-1 1 would be replaced with cyclopentane to produce insulation
foam for refrigerators.
*   Brist - There were two sub-projects in the enterprise designed to eliminate the annual ODS
consumption by 10 Tons: i) Sub-project NR-6 where an annual consumption of 3 Tons of CFC-12
would be replaced by HFC-134a as a refrigerant in commercial refrigerators; and ii) Sub-project NR-7
where an annual consumption of 7 Tons of CFC-11 would be replaced by cyclopentane for the
manufacture of insulation foam for refrigerators.
* Zem - The sub-project NR-8 designed to eliminate the annual ODS consumption by 16 Tons where
CFC- 1 would be replaced by cyclopentane to produce foam for insulation of refrigerators.
*   Klimat - There were two sub-projects in the enterprise designed to eliminate the annual ODS
consumption by 19 Tons: i) Sub-project NR-9 where an annual consumption of 8 Tons of CFC-12
would be replaced by HFC-134a in the production of conimercial refrigerators; and ii) Sub-project
NR-10 where an annual consumption of 11 Tons of CFC-l 1 would be replaced by cyclopentane for
insulation foam for commnercial refrigerators.
*   Vazhod - The sub-project NE-i designed to eliminate the annual ODS consumption by 25 Tons. In
this sub-project, CFC-l 1 would be replaced by cyclopentane to produce foam for a number of different
industries.
-3 -



*   VMZ (Ball Bearings) - The sub-project NS-2 designed to eliminate the annual ODS consumption by
50 Tons where CFC-1 13 and methyl chloroform would be replaced by aqueous or chlorinated solvents
in the cleaning operations of ball bearings.
Technical Assistance
The technical assistance and training sub-projects in the Institute of Refrigeration comprised: i) Sub-project
NR-12 which included the establishment of a training center in the Institute to train 1,200 refrigeration
technicians in handling non-ODS substances for new equipment and recovery of CFCs from existing
refrigerators; ii) Sub-Project NR- 13 which included the production of 1,000 portable recycling units to be
used by refrigeration technicians; and iii) Sub-project NR-14 which included the developing of capacity in
the Institute to test compressors and condensing units for reliability and safety certification. The combined
estimated ODS phase-out for sub-projects NR- 12 and NR- 13 was 100 tons.
Institutional Strenythening
The Institutional Strengthening sub-project included assistance to the OTF to effectively implement the
project, ensure that the Country Program was being implemented as intended, and to report Bulgaria's
compliance on ODS phase-out to the Montreal Protocol on a regular basis.
The Grant funds were intended to be channeled through First Private Bank as a Local Financial Agent.
The bank's role was to monitor the financial performance of the enterprises, manage the Special Account on
behalf of the OTF, pay suppliers and contractors, monitor sub-project expenditures, and employ and pay
private auditors for the project. The bank would not take any credit risk and it was agreed that the service
fee for the bank would be 3% of disbursements.
3.4 Revised Components:
The changes on the above project components were as follows:
- The enterprise Vazhod was purchased by an intemational firm and as a result became ineligible for
GEF financing. Thus, the sub-project NF-I was not carried out under the project. However, the firm
that bought Vazhod financed the technology conversion to ensure that Bulgaria met its objective
towards the Montreal Protocol.
* The enterprise Zem privatized and moved its core business from refrigerators to non-ODS consuming
products. As a result, the GEF financing was not required and the sub-project NR-8 was not carried
out
*  A new private enterprise, Lucky Polyus, was included in the technology conversion program in
December 1998. The company was established in 1993 and was not a major ODS consumer when the
Country Program was prepared in 1994. Thus, the Country Program did not identify the enterprise.
However, during project implementation Lucky Polyus ODS consumption increased and the Ministry
of Environment requested the Bank to review the eligibility of the company to receive GEF Grant
financing. A Sub-project NR-15 was prepared and submitted to the GEF's Scientific and Technical
Advisory Panel (STAP) which confirmed the eligibility of the project.  The Sub-project was
implemented and eliminated an annual consumption of 27 Tons of CFC-l I and CFC-12 with HCFC
141b and HFC 134a, respectively. The CFC-1 1 was being used for the manufacture of insulation
-4 -



foams for refrigerators and CFC-12 was being used as a refrigerant. The GEF Grant savings from
sub-projects NF-I and NR-10 were used to finance Sub-project NR-15.
*   Sub-project NR-12 (refrigeration technician training) was highly successful and the training was
extended from 1,200 to 1,500 refrigeration technicians which covered the entire country.
*   A public awareness campaign on the importance of phasing-out ODS was completed during the
project.
* Due to the financial sector difficulties in the early stages of project implementation, the Local Financial
Agent - First Private Bank - went out of business. Bulbank was chosen as a replacement bank that
carried out the role of the financial intermediary.
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
This project was not subject to a quality at entry review, and therefore ratings or reporting on the QAG
process are not available.
There were no technical risks associated with the project. The main project risk at entry was the uncertain
macroeconomic conditions and slow pace of privatization which resulted in a decline in industrial
production raising concerns on the viability of enterprises under the project. The Bank, having a fiduciary
responsibility towards the GEF, wanted to ensure that only viable enterprises, preferably privatized,
received the Grant. As a result, during the early stages of supervision, procurement activities were
suspended in enterprises undergoing the privatization process. Although this resulted in a longer
implementation period, the ultimate objective of the project was met. While enterprises Klimat and Lucky
Polyus were private when the project started, MRAZ, Brist, Frigo were privatized during project
implementation. Currently, all enterprises under the project have successfully converted to non-ODS
technology and are meeting the non-ODS technology demands of the market.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objectives set forth for the project have been achieved in full. For this reason, the ICR rates the project
as being satisfactorily implemented. Explanation of this rating is presented below.
Achievement of Country Program Objectives
With assistance from the Danish Government, Bulgaria prepared a Country Program to develop the ODS
phase-out strategy. The Country Program which included key policy actions and identified priority
investments received wide support from the Government, primarily the Ministry of Environment and
Water, the Customs Office, enterprises consuming ODS, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
The phase-out strategy was reiterated as a Govermnent objective in Bulgaria's Environment Strategy. The
Government created an Ozone Task Force (OTF) in the Ministry of Environment and Water for the
implementation, management, and monitoring of the phase-out program. The target of phasing out 437 tons
of ODS, as outlined in the Country Program, has been fully met.
- 5-



Achievement of Project Objectives
The project objective was to assist Bulgaria's phase-out of ODS consumption, as required under the
Montreal Protocol and its amendments. At appraisal, the objective was to phase-out 365 tons of ODS with
the remaining 72 tons of consumption, distributed over multiple small companies, to be addressed outside
the scope of the project. With the inclusion of enterprise Lucky Polyus an additional 27 tons of ODS was
to be phased-out.
The project's objective has been fully met (Section 4.2). The GEF Grant financed the technology
conversion that allowed the enterprises participating in the project to conform to international standards and
retain their domestic and export markets. The project contributed to global efforts on protection of the
ozone layer and helped Bulgaria to meet its obligations towards the Montreal Protocol.
There were no major environmental concerns associated with the installation or operation of non-ODS
technologies and the Bank classified the project as category B project, requiring limited environmental
analysis. Only modest environmental risks were associated with the use of cyclopentane, a flammable
substance, in the foam sector, and with the potential increase in wastewater in the solvents sector. In order
to mitigate and manage these risks, all sub-projects followed industrial safety guidelines. In addition, an
Environmental Impact Assessments including health and safety plans were carried out for all sub-projects
according to the Bulgarian Environmental Protection Act. The MoEW approved these assessments prior to
sub-project implementation and ensured that regulations on industrial health and safety were enforced prior
to equipment operation and installation.
Legal and Regulatory Framework Development
The key policy elements of the phase-out strategy that have been implemented are as follows:
* A Government Decree banned the imports of ODS in Bulgaria from January 1, 1996;
3 A Government Decree now regulates the use of existing CFCs present in old refrigerators and
machines. This decree stipulates strict penalties for deliberate venting or abuse of CFCs. Since
Bulgaria does not have CFC incineration facilities, the decree allows the export of CFCs for
incineration purposes only with approval from MoEW;
* To prevent illegal imports of ODS in the country, Customs officers at border crossings have been
trained and have the necessary equipment to identify ODS; and
* To monitor ODS use in the country, officers in all the fifteen Regional Environmental Inspectorates
under the MoEW have received training and have the equipment to detect the use of ODS. In addition
officials in the Institute for Refrigeration and Air Conditioning and the National Center for
Environment and Sustainable Development have also been trained to monitor the use of ODS.
Public Awareness Campaign
An NGO called "Borrowed Nature" was selected through a competitive process to carry out a public
awareness program on the importance to phase-out ODS and the need to protect the earth's ozone layer.
The Public Awareness Program helped strengthen the project's sustainability by fostering a wider public
awareness on the importance of ODS phaseout and the measures taken in Bulgaria for the phase-out.
The six month campaign was innovative and successful.  In large gatherings and in public events,
information highlighting the need to protect the earth's ozone layer was disseminated. Short movies,
- 6 -



including interviews with experts and Government officials, were shown on television. Press conferences
and media workshops were carried out calling attention to prevent firther depletion of the ozone layer.
There was special emphasis on informing the young and a drawing competition was held for children. A
seminar was held for the representatives of industries, media, Govermnent institutions explaining national
programs, policies and future measures regarding the phase-out and management of ODS. The seminars
were held in twenty five towns in the country.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Sub-0~~~~ 0                                                           Ut7
Enterpnise MRAZ    NR-1             phase-out 14 tons of ODS             The enterprise was privatized dunng project
NR-2            phase-out 44 tons of ODS             implementation. The ODS phase-out has been
NR-3            phase-out 70 tons of ODS             completed and the production in the enterprise
is increasing.
Enterprise Frigo   NR-4             phase-out 5 tons of ODS              The enterprise was privatized during project
NR-5            phase-out 12 tons of ODS             implementation. The ODS phase-out has been
completed and the production in the enterprise
is increasing.
Enterprise Brist   NR-6             phase-out 3 tons of ODS              The enterprise was privatized during project
NR-7            phase-out 7 tons of ODS              implementation. The ODS phase-out has been
completed and the production in the enterprise
.______________________is increasing.
Enterprise Zem     NR-8             phase-out 16 tons of ODS             The enterprise has moved its core business
from refrigerators to non-ODS consuming
products. As a result, GEF financing was not
required as intended.
Enterprise Klimat    NR-9           phase-out 8 tons of ODS              At appraisal, the enterprise was privately
NR-10           phase-out 11 tons of ODS             owned.   The  ODS  phase-out has been
completed and the production is increasing.
Institute of       NR-12            train 1,200 technicians in the use of  1,500 refrigeration technicians trained
Refrigeration                       non-ODS
NR-13           produce portable ODS recycling unit for  1,000 portable recycling units produced and
existing refrigerators              distributed in Bulgaria
Sub-projects NR-12 and 13 combined
would reduce ODS consumption by 100
tons
NR-14           developing capacity to certify non-ODS   certification capacity developed
equipment
Enterprise Vazhod    NF-I           phase-out 25 tons of ODS             The enterprise was purchased by an
intemational firm. The ODS phase-out has
been completed and financed from company's
own resources. The GEF Grant was not
required as intended.
Enterprise VMZ -    NS-2            phase-out 50 tons of ODS             The phase-out has been completed as planned.
Ball Bearings
Institutional   assist the OTF to implement the project,  The OTF has successfully met its objectives. In
Strengthening    ensure that Country Progran is being  addition, it has been instrumental in developing
implemented, report Bulgaria's      and implementing the policy environment to
compliance on ODS phase-out to the  phase-out ODS.
..__ ___ ____ ___  ______Montreal Protocol
Lucky Polyus       NR-15            phase-out 27 tons of ODS             The private enterprise joined the project during
implementation.    The  phase-out in  the
enterprise is complete.
-7 -



4.3 Net Present Valite/Econonmic rate of/return:
An economic analysis was not performed, since it would have been difficult to quantify the environmental
benefits of each sub-project. The project clearly has global environmental benefits since it contributed
towards preventing the depletion of the earth's ozone layer. The thinning of the earth's ozone layer would
change the global climate leading to a wide range of adverse environmental effects.
Cost-effectiveness criteria of the Montreal Protocol were applied to the technology conversion sub-project
reduction process thus ensuring most appropriate targeting of GEF funds. The approved and actual
cost-effectiveness for each sub-project is shown below. The actual cost of phase-out per unit ODS ton
($26.51) was in line with the estimated cost ($27.57).
_____t00000000ji \ _   00 VSubpjatAbV  i.   App¢.d Grant 00 0Cost D;X 00000Actual Grant Cost
No                      10Efife;t#ven e;s                         Effectiveness 
NR- I     MRAZ                                   16.37                 10.29
NR-2      MRAZ                                  22.99                  27.36
NR-3      MRAZ                                  34.17                  28.42
NR-4      FRIGO                                  85.15                 56.30
NR-5      FRIGO                                 59.24                  66.19
NR-6      BRIST                                  73.48                 48.99
NR-7      BRIST                                 93.84                  117.64
NR-8      ZEM                                   44.25              Grant not used
NR-9      KLIMAT INKOM                           33.49                 20.94
NR-10     KLIMAT INKOM                          78.55                  76.73
NR-12    INST. OF REFRIGERATION                  17.27                 7.93
NR-13     INST. OF REFRIGERATION                23.91                  12:93
NR-14    INST. OF REFRIGERATION                  N/A                    N/A
NF-I      VAZHOD                                 25.78             Grant not used
NS-2      VMZ-BALL BEARINGS                      13.45                 12.49
NR-15     LUCKY POLYUS                           15.21                 19.73
ISC       MoEW                                   N/A                   N/A
Total:                                          27.51                  26.51
-8 -



Another benefit of the project was the revival of the enterprises after they were privatized. As these
enterprises expand, more jobs are being created. The job creation outside Sofia (enterprises Brist, Frigo,
VMZ, Lucky Polyus) is especially important since unemployment in these areas are high. Currently, about
760 people are employed in these enterprises that participated in the project and it is likely that the number
of employees will increase as production increases. The training of the refrigeration technicians also helped
to develop their skills so that they can retain their jobs as Bulgaria moves to the non-ODS technology.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable. A financial analysis for the project was not performned. However, an enterprise financial
viability analysis was carried out during preparation to determine the prospects of each enterprise to remain
in business. The Bank, having a fiduciary responsibility towards the GEF, performed this analysis to
ensure that the Grant was being allocated to enterprises that had prospects to survive in the transitional
economy of Bulgaria. The financial position of the enterprises were reported on a quarterly basis
throughout the project implementation period by the local bank acting as financial intermediary for the
project. The enterprises that have received the GEF Grant are in business today and with the technology
conversion are showing prospects of growth.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a significant institutional development impact. In the public sector, the creation of the
OTF was instrumental in building capacity to develop and implement the policies required to switch to
non-ODS technology in the country. The change in technology has been complete and Bulgaria is fully
meeting the requirements of the Montreal Protocol. In addition, the technical assistance provided to the
Institute of Refrigeration has helped to develop capacity to provide non-ODS certification, in line with EU
norms, for equipment manufactured in Bulgaria. The training of 1,500 refrigeration technicians in the use
of non-ODS substance has also a wide ranging impact in preparing the country for the new technology.
In the private sector, the project helped the enterprises meet the demand of ODS free products both in the
domestic and the export markets. Through the project, officials in the beneficiary enterprises became fully
acquainted with the modem technology that does not use ODS. This has helped the enterprises to remain
competitive. The Bank's procurement procedures also helped the enterprises appreciate the benefits of
transparent and competitive bidding procedures.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control oJfgovernment or implementing agency:
While the project objectives were fully met, there were delays in implementation. The Grant Agreement
between Bulgaria and the Bank became effective on May 14, 1996 and the project was initially expected to
close on October 31, 1998. However, the Grant was extended twice, the first extension was until October
31, 1999 while the second extended the closing date of the Grant to April 30, 2000. The main reason for
the delay was the macroeconomic conditions in the country which resulted in a slow start of the project.
After the Currency Board was put in place in July 1997 and as the economy stabilized, project
implementation began in eamest. Essentially, the project implementation gathered momentum from early
1998 and the reasons for delays are outlined below.
-9-



Macroeconomic Conditions
In the early stage of project implementation the enterprises under the project faced problems related to the
transitional economy. The GDP declined about 30% between 1989 and 1996, and the industrial sector's
contribution to the GDP dropped from 59% in 1989 to 28% in 1996. While privatization efforts were
underway, enterprises MRAZ, Frigo, Brist, Zem, and Vazhod were all public companies with an uncertain
future. To ensure that the GEF Grant funds were allocated to companies with prospects for survival and
growth, the Bank and the Government agreed to temporarily suspend project implementation in enterprises
undergoing privatization. It was also agreed that GEF funds could be released to these enterprises after the
privatization process was complete. Project implementation, however, continued in the Institute of
Refrigeration private enterprise Klimat and public enterprise VMZ which did not show an uncertain future.
Although, the decision to not implement certain sub-projects led to delays, the final outcome was positive
and the GEF Grants have been allocated to enterprises that are fully functional today. Enterprises MRAZ,
Frigo, Brist were privatized before they received GEF assistance. Enterprise Zem has privatized and it
changed its business to non-refrigeration products which did not consume ODS and as a result the
sub-project (NR-8) was not required. The enterprise Vazhod was purchased by an intemational firm and
as a result became ineligible for the GEF Grant. A private enterprise Lucky Polyus was included in the
project in December 1998.
Change in Local Financial Intermediary
The financial sector was also going through a difficult period when implementation began, due to the
macroeconomic situation in the country. The Local Financial Agent (LFA) originally selected for the
project was the First Private Bank. However, after the Grant became effective, the bank went out of
business in 1996. Bulbank was designated as the new LFA in February 1997. After First Private Bank
went out of business and before Bulbank was selected, project implementation had ceased.
Procurement
While project implementation gathered speed in early 1998, the performance of suppliers in certain projects
delayed implementation which required the second extension of the Grant Agreement. The suppliers for
non-ODS technology equipment are limited in number and are extremely busy with worldwide ODS
phase-out demands. This resulted in suppliers requesting extensions for quotation submission, delay in
deliveries, and sometimes supply of equipment that did not perform as expected requiring additional
supplies to meet contract conditions. The enterprises could have utilized the penalty clauses in their
contracts with the suppliers. However, to prevent protracted legal procedures the enterprises preferred to
re-negotiate their contract with the suppliers until fully functional goods were delivered.
- 10 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to gov ernment control:
The Government fully supported the project and successfully accomplished their tasks. The development
of appropriate policy and its implementation (Section 4.1) is due to the pro-active role played by the
Government to meet Bulgaria's need towards the Montreal Protocol.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Overall the performance of the OTF has been satisfactory and it has contributed to the achievement of
project objectives. In the initial period of project implementation the OTF was not pro-active in
co-ordinating activities. The situation changed after June 1997 when the OTF was restructured with the
inclusion of new staff. The restructured OTF, assisted by consultants, ably performed its functions and
deserves credit for the success of the project. Bulk of the project activities were completed in fiscal year
1999 (July 1, 1998 to June 30, 1999) after the OTF was restructured. GEF Grant disbursements are
shown below as an index of project progress during the implementation period.
July 1,'96 to June 30,'97               6.4%                           6.4%
| July 1, 97 to June 30, 98    __10.5%                                   16.9°/
| July 1, '98 to June 30, '99             76.7%                          93.6%
July 1, 99 to June 30, '00              6.4%                           100%
5.4 Costs and financing:
The appraisal estimate for total project cost was US$ 13.5 million. The financing plan was that the GEF
Grant would provide US$ 10.5 million while the enterprises would contribute US$ 3 million. The GEF
Grant was awarded to finance only items and activities included in the Indicative List of Eligible
Incremental Costs adopted by the Meeting Parties to the Montreal Protocol. The GEF Grant was
denominated in SDR's (SDR 7.1 million corresponding to US$ 10.5 million) while the expenditures were
mainly in US$ or major European currencies. Due to the fluctuating exchange rate, at project closing, the
US$ dollar equivalent of the utilized GEF Grant was US$ 9.6 million. Details of the actual expenditures
are presented below.
Consistent with the November 1994 GEF guidelines used to develop this project, expenditures incurred by
enterprises after October 31, 1993 and before the date of Grant signing were eligible for retroactive
financing. Retroactive financing was provided for two projects: Sub-project NR-9 for an amount of US $
9,639; and sub-project NR-1 for an amount of US $ 15,275.
- 11 -



wF       VWiD                     644,475                   64,1               
I2       IRAZdom                 1,011,728    1,552,93  _               1,203,974    1,552,92     2,756,89
NR15     F     rnig               710,89          1         710,9        75,7          ]051        8994
NR7      BrnstofRefrig            656,,                                  823,488                   873,48
MR8      Z-KrTd-F(X               687v39                    687J39 
SWh4     Kk=T-/ muI g             864,04        11 ,5     1 875,594      843,9992      141,99      9S599P
NRU5-TUILuk                            0    302                  0       42,78       30,7        163571
9u4D FO|AMS                      4,575,371   1,5445       6,139,16      4,08,46      I ,911       5",7
NRI      MRAZ___    Z             229,154     915,107     1,144961       144,092      915,1,      1,059,199
mu       NRAZ3                   2,32 1,935'  497,95(     2,8 19,885  I1,989,589       497,95(  2,487,53<
NR4      Ffig>mft                 425,7741(                 425,774      28 1,504      60,00(      341 ,50
NR6      Bnst-w         2     2     0,449                   220,449       146,971       32,00a     178,97
N,R9     Kfi me= zr               267,941      34,581       3a,z          167,56       105,03(     272,59(
NRw5-01               _                Cak  C=                   (       112,924        6,00(      118,92,
Sub   K A1X)ERTIN                V,65-25M    1,44t,63i    4,912,891     282t4        1,616        458t
6. 1 Rationale fo   utiail    aig
NS2    IVWlba bei                 699,4741_                 699,474      649,354       268,8731    918,22'
|9bdal SOLVENIS|                  69947                                   6 9,44  49,354  268,87   9182
IN12   lnsLfRkrag          r       310,444          °       310,4         317,258                   175
LNR13   JlnsLofRef4rbg            725,638       15,285       409          775,780       18,50%9,8
Te RI4 oet sLofRefhi s tain        230b935e                 23d35         277,59t   f  reason
|ISC     MOE-tiLS  |h    237,852|                   0|      237,852       411,795                   1,9
|9bWTA/IRA            IN   1,504,869            15         1,520,154    1,784254         18W      1p800
SUB -TUA                        104"         3     i         _           ,6,B1,9,                13,17,5
-ILF  EE|                          307,349                    i28D,91f
|TOTAL  I           I  ~~~~~~10,552,314    2,02^  13$A841                    3-79  "3,t9>  13g17
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv ratinig:
The project is highly sustainable due to the following reasons:
*    the policies required for Bulgaria to meet Montreal Protocol requirements are in place. These policy
measures are being enforced by the Govemment;
*    the  domestic  and  export markets of the  participating  enterprises  require  the  use  of non-ODS
substances. As a result, the enterprises will make best use of the technology conversion supported
under the project to remain competitive and expand their business;
*    from  an environmental sustainability standpoint, the altemative substances introduced as replacements
of CFCs are approved by the Montreal Protocol. Furthermore, any fire or explosions hazard due to the
use of cyclopentane as foaming agent has been minimized by the safety audits. The new installations
have been certified by the environmental and fire authorities, as required by Bulgarian legislation, to
ensure that industrial health and safety standards are met;
*    the public awareness campaign carried out under the project and the successful implementation of the
- 12-



Country Program has raised awareness in the country on the importance of using non-ODS. The
public pressure will ensure that enterprises do not use ODS and minimize deliberate releases of ODS
left in older operating equipment;
*   the refrigeration and the foamn sectors in the country are no longer using. ODS for new equipment.
Thus, the investments in the Institute of Refrigeration will be used to provide certification for non-ODS
equipment to allow Bulgarian enterprises meet the demands of the local and foreign markets;
*   the Institute of Refrigeration has taken a leading role in the region in refrigeration servicing and
offering study tours and training opportunities to other countries phasing out ODS.  The
cross-dissemination of information across countries helps to build the knowledge of latest technologies
which will ensure that Bulgaria maintains its competitive position in the region with respect to the
refrigeration industry; and
*   the training and certification program provided to 1,500 refrigeration technicians has allowed the
service sector to move towards non-ODS equipment.
6.2 T7ransition alrrangemnent to regular operations:
The Country Program has been met and the technology conversion has been complete. Thus, transitional
arrangement would not be necessary.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Govemment requested the Bank to be the implementing agency to administer the GEF Grant. The
BIank's experience of managing projects worldwide and the knowledge of Bulgaria was useful during
project preparation and implementation. While the project was prepared relatively quickly, Board approval
was granted eight months after appraisal. Board approval could not be sought until GEF Secretariat's
endorsement of the project. The delay was due to the fact that when the project was prepared, there were
competing needs of scarce GEF resources from other countries. The GEF funds had to be secured before
the Secretariat could endorse the project.
When the project was prepared, the GEF guidelines did not require that a financial viability analysis be
performed. However, given the economic conditions in the country at that time, the Bank decided to carry
out such an analysis to ensure that only companies with prospects of survival and growth were included in
the project. Also, it was agreed between Bulgaria and the Bank that the local financial agent would monitor
the financial situation of the participating enterprises before GEF Grants would be released. The decision
by the Bank to perform the financial analysis and to monitor the position of the companies prior to Board
approval ensured that the GEF funds were used in an efficient manner and it fulfilled the Bank's fiduciary
responsibility to the GEF.
7.2 Supervision:
The project was successfully implemented as a result of the effective co-operation among the OTF,
participating enterprises, and the Bank team. The Bank team, including a consultant financed by the
Danish Trust Funds, was small and as a result co-ordination within the team was excellent. Further, there
were no major changes in the team members throughout the project. The continuity of team members was
an important factor in the satisfactory implementation of the project. Supervision was carried out in a
- 13 -



cost-effective manner and within budget.
7.3 Overall Bank peiformance:
The Bank's performance in preparation, appraisal and implementation was satisfactory. The Bank's
missions were staffed with qualified professionals in environmental, procurement, technical and financial
fields. An added advantage to the Bank team was the continuity of Task Management, a function
performed by the same individual from project preparation to completion. The Bank as an implementing
agency ensured that GEF procedures were followed. The co-ordination between the Bank and its
counterparts in the Ministry of Environment and Water, the enterprises, and the Local Financial Agent was
excellent. The Bank team provided guidance, as necessary, on technical issues, GEF financing eligibility,
procurement, financial reporting, and project management.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Bulgarian authorities were fully supportive of the project and as a result it was possible to prepare
multiple sub-projects in a short period of time. The technical experts in the country provided valuable
inputs. The Government also committed itself to implement the Country Program and as a result, the
project preparation received full attention from staff and management in the MoEW.
7.5 Governnment implementation perjbrnmance:
Ratification of the Grant Agreement by Parliament was a condition of effectiveness as per Bulgarian
legislation. The ratification process lasted for six months. However, this delay can be explained by the
fact that Bulgaria was going through a difficult economic situation which pre-occupied the Parliament with
other proceedings.
The Borrower was overall responsive and managed to find workable solutions to problems as they arose
during implementation.  The credit goes to the Government in developing a number policies and
successfully implementing them in a short period of time (Section 4.1). The Government has followed the
requirements of the Montreal Protocol closely. The public awareness campaign carried out by an NGO
under the project was an innovative and cost-effective initiative which resulted in a wide dissemination of
informnation on the importance to phase-out ODS.
7.6 Inmplementing Agency:
The OTF within the MoEW had overall responsibility for project implementation. The project is complex
with 15 sub-projects, but due to the high quality performance of the OTF all sub-projects were successfully
completed. The OTF was established in 1992 for the development of the Country Program for ODS
phaseout and project preparation management in Bulgaria. It was supported by the experts of the
Refrigeration Institute and the Regional Offices of the Ministry of Environment and Water. The OTF also
performed effectively in preparing the GEF project.
After the Grant became effective in May 1996, for a short time the OTF was not pro-active in
- 14 -



implementing the project. The OTF's lack of familiarity with Bank's operational procedures could have
been a factor. The situation was however, quickly corrected by the MoEW through personnel changes in
June 1997 after which the work of the OTF has been excellent.  While a Deputy Minister was ultimately
responsible for the OTF, day to day activities were delegated to a Senior Expert in the Ministry who was
assisted by technical and financial consultants. The hiring of a part-time procurement consultant familiar
with Bank procedures was an important step to increase the pace of project implementation.
The OTF ensured that the Banks project implementation procedures, including procurement, were
followed. Regular reports on project management, procurement, disbursements, and financial status of
enterprises were provided to the Bank. The audit reports were also provided on time. After project
closure, the OTF will continue to enforce the ODS phase-out regulations and provide reports to Montreal
Protocol as required. The OTF also regularly represents Bulgaria in international forums for phase-out of
ODS such as the Montreal Protocol Implementation Committee. The OTF also plays an active role in the
network of Government agencies in the region responsible for phasing out ODS in their respective
countries.
7.7 Overall Borrower peijorniance:
The overall performance is satisfactory. The staff and the consultants in the OTE were highly committed
professionals whose input was critical for effective project preparation and management. While there were
delays in early stages of project implementation, the MoEW took a pro-active role and restructured the
OTF. The restructured OTF was effective in interacting with the enterprises and using resources as
necessary to resolve issues that emerged during implementation. In addition, the improving country
conditions in 1998 facilitated the privatization of the participating enterprises which in tum increased the
pace of project implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned are elaborated below in italics:
Consider Country Risks
If a project has to be prepared or implemented in an environment with a significant country risk,
project activities need to be modified to mitigate country risks.
The technical preparation of the project was not difficult. However, the economic situation in the country
was such that it had a direct impact on the project. Enterprises were excluded from the project at appraisal
(DZU and Opticolectron), the ratification of the Grant Agreement was delayed which in turn delayed
project effectiveness, the financial intermediary had to be changed, and activities in enterprises that were
undergoing privatization had to be temporarily suspended. These were all manifestations of larger
problems of an economy in transition.
The Bank was fully aware of the country risks associated with the project. However, it had also made a
commitment to assist Bulgaria in meeting its Montreal Protocol requirements. Thus, the Bank and the
Government made the conscious decision to delay implementation for certain sub-projects until the risk of
inefficient use of GEF funds was minimized. This decision proved to be prudent since the GEF funds are
- 15-



now being utilized by private companies (excepting VMZ which is in the privatization process) that are
meeting the demand of non-ODS equipment in the domestic and foreign markets. The private company
owners seized the technology conversion as an opportunity to make their business more competitive. With
the recovery of the economy, country risks minimized which in turn helped project implementation. About
75% of the Grant was disbursed between July 1, 1998 and June 30, 1999, a period of which coincides with
the improvement in the Bulgarian economy, including the pace of privatization.
Utilize NGOs for Public Awareness
NGOs can be effective in determining the development impact of a project, through public outreach
The use of an NGO, selected on a competitive basis, for the public awareness program was innovative and
successful. The NGO was able to reach out to a wide range of the population through various channels.
Similar approaches should be considered where an NGO could collect the feedback from the stakeholders
and the population before and after a Bank project. The feedback at the beginning, collected through
surveys and focus group meetings, could help design the project. The input received from the stakeholders
towards the end of the project would help determine the development impact of the Bank's involvement.
Difficult to Manage Multiple Sub-projects
Project preparation and implementation with multiple sub-projects is resource intensive and requires
qualified staff
The project had fifteen sub-projects which were distributed over six enterprises and the Institute of
Refrigeration, across the country. This could have added to the challenge of effectively managing the
project. In this case the OTF's competent management was successful in keeping track of activities and
maintaining constant communication with the enterprises. However, for other larger projects, multiple
sub-projects should be avoided. For effective management and supervision, the resource requirements are
high and it is often difficult to develop the capacity of the implementing agency to carry out all the
functions as intended.
Use Penalties Against Suppliers
Ensure contract conditions are fully enforced
The second extension of the project was largely due to suppliers not being able to deliver goods on time as
per the contract. There are a limited number of suppliers that produce non-ODS equipment procured under
the project. Currently, these suppliers are extremely busy due to global demands to convert to non-ODS
technology. The enterprises had the option to use the penalties and performance guarantees specified in
their contract with the supplier. This option was not utilized since the costs of a legal proceeding would be
high compared to the contract amount. However, to create an incentive for the suppliers to provide the
goods on time, especially for larger contract amounts, the Borrower should be encouraged to use the
penalty clauses of a contract if it is clear that a supplier is at fault.
- 16 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The section below has been prepared by the OTF.
The ICR, a coherent, detailed and precise report, provides for a good diagnosis of the current situation of
each recipient company, weighing all implications of the specific technology conversion involved.
The Ozone Task Force would like to highlight the following aspects and points of the ICR. Each recipient
enterprise was first evaluated in terms of its geographic position, affecting social strata. Unemployment in
small country towns has a much higher rate than in larger ones, and often the restoration of the refrigerator
producer is the only employment chance, otherwise qualified local people have. Privatization prerequisites
include both keeping production spectrum intact and gradually reaching original number of employees. The
social connotation is rather strong in the case of BRIST and FRIGO, which are roughly similar in being
small town enterprises producing commercial refrigerating appliances, having large, unkempt premises,
that needed drastic refurbishing, both having been privatized more or less two, three years ago. The ICR
assessed not only the idiosyncrasies, but also the subtle differences, how effective solutions of specific
problems were and drew valuable conclusions in terms of lessons learned in order to avoid drawbacks and
weak points in other similar projects, which are at an earlier stage, as well as apply good solutions
whenever isuitable. Legal framework and safety issues, having a lot in common in the region, could also be
useful to others, especially the part referring to law enforcement and measures taken to prevent ODS illegal
traffic. MRAZ' problem is well described, that the company with the use of the new equipment needs to
regain its previous share on the local and foreign market and now its products meet higher ISO and EN
standards and are more competitive, enabling the company keep some 60% of the original number of
employees. Klimat Inkom and Lucky Polyus situated in large cities and were founded as private enterprises,
had to invest into civil works and enlarging the premises. The ICR will help them to attract investments,
balance their expansion plans against efforts in upgrading quality and product design, energy efficiency,
EC labeling. VMZ Ball Bearings Plant faces full-scale privatization of civil production. The Institute of
Refrigeration had satisfactorily trained and issued licenses to 1500 refrigeration technicians, a number quite
sufficient for servicing and maintaining existing refrigeration appliances of a country, the size of Bulgaria.
The ICR well pointed out that the Institute has the capacity to train technicians from neighboring countries.
The results, good timing and special creativity of the extensive public awareness raising campaign are well
described, including interesting happenings, which engaged public attention and achieved its main goal to
stir up discussions about the ozone layer and global warming.
In general the ICR considers every aspect of the ODS Phaseout Project in Bulgaria, taking into account
legal, technical, social, safety and financial issues, and helped recipient enterprises foresee future
development.
Two letters from the Minister of Environment and Water are attached below which outlines the
Govenmment's position on the project and the Implementation Completion Report.
- 17 -



R epublic of lBulgaria
0,;
Mfinistry of Environment and Water
Minister
Sofia, 29 May 2000
Dear Mr. Vorkink.
The Ministry of Environment and Water of Bulgaria has the pleasure offormally informing the World
Bank, that on 30oh April 2000 the implementation of the National Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-
out Program was successfully concluded, resulting in the complete phasing-out of mentioned
substances use in the country. Having accomplished the above, Bulgaria is infull compliance with its
obligation under the Vienna Convention to protect the ozone layer and the Montreal Protocol on
Substances, that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
National Program, worked out under Montreal Protocol requirements set for the country, was
prepared with the exclusive expertise and financial support of the Danish Environment Protection
Agency and COW] Consult. The actual implementation of the National Program was financed by the
Global Environment Facility, after an Agreement between the Government of Bulgaria and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was signed Recipient companies would not
have been able to carry out the technology conversion to non-ODS production without the financial
support and guidance of the World Bank
The Ministry of Environment and Water would like to express its deep appreciation and gratitude for
the immense support rendered by your highly esteemed Bank. and especially to Mr. Sudipto Sarkar-
Operations Officer with the Bank, whose benevolent attitude, managerial skills and very humahe and
patient approach, as well as all involved highly professional officers made implementation both
successful and a pleasure.
Hoping, that this wonderful relationship in the field of environmeFit shall not only persist, but funrher
develop in thefuture, I remain
Yours sincerely,
To: Mr. Andrew Vorkink
Country Director
Bulgaria and Romania Country Vnit
THE WORLD BANK
To: Mr. Thomas O'Brien
Resident Representadve
The World Bank Sofia Ofrice
67, William Gladstone St., Sofia                 tel.: + 359 2 988-2577;fax: + 359 2 986-2533
- 18-



R&epub fic of fBufgaria
Ministry of Environment and Water
Minister
Sofia, 22 June 2000
RE: Comments to the World Bank implementation Completion Report on the ODS Phase-out Project, No: 28307 BUL
Dear Mr. Vorkink,
The Ministry of Fnvironment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria found that the World Bank ICR is quite
enough complete and detailed The analyses of the situation are very correct and precise.
The principal objective of the Project - to assist Bulgaria in the phase out of ODS consumption in a cost-effective
manner, in compliance with the Montreal Protocol and its amendments and adjustmenu - was achieved
T'he consumption of CFC was phased out through the introduction of advanced alternative, non-CFCs technologies.
The training programfor technicians, addressing updated techniques of refrigerant recovery, was successfully carried
out.
A modern laboratoryfor testing of compressors was established
A national networkfor recovery, reclamation and recycling was established and it is working well.
A Public Awareness Campaign was successfully carried out.
The national ODS regulation was improved
A great deal of the above results have been achieved through the consultants' assistance and supported by the World
Bank and by the missions of aits representatives.
As a whole the ICRfully reflects all activities carried out jointly by the MOEW, the World Bank and the consultanu.
The Ministry confirms the proposed ICR.
Yours sincerely,
To: Mr. Andrew Vorkink
Country Director
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
THE WORLD BANK
67, William  Gladstone St., Sofia                     tel.: + 359 2 988-2577;fax: + 359 2 986-2533
- 19-



(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable. There were no cofinanciers for the project.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
A log frame analysis was not part of Bank's appraisal documentation when the project was prepared. As a
result, a log frame analysis was not performed for this particular project. However, the performance
indicators for each component of the project was identified during supervision. The status of each indicator
at closure is presented below.
Project Component         Performance Indicator               Status at Closure
Technology            Phase-out 100 tons of ODS, at     The phase-out has been completed
Conversion -          appraisal.
refrigeration                                           The phase-out has been completed.
During implementation it was agreed   The sub-project was financed
that another 27 tons of ODS would   through savings in the Grant due to
be phase-out from the consumption    the fact that enterprises Vazhod and
of enterprise Lucky Polyus       Zem used own resources.
Technology            Phase-out 115 tons of ODS         The phase-out has been completed.
Conversion - foam                                       Enterprises Vazhod and Zem were
privatized during implementation
and financed the technology
conversion out of own resources and
GEF funds were not required.
Technology            Phase out 50 tons of ODS          The phase-out has been completed.
Conversion - solvents
Technical Assistance    a) train 1,200 refrigeration    a) 1,500 technicians trained
to Institute of       technicians in the use of non-ODS
Refrigeration
b) produce 1000 portable ODS     b) units have been produced and are
recycling units for existing     functional
refrigerators
c) certification capacity has been
c) develop capacity to certify   developed
non-ODS equipment
Institutional         a) assist OTF to implement the    a) project was implemented
Strengthening of      project                           successfully
MoEW
b) ensure Country Program is being    b) Country Program has been
implemented                      implemented satisfactorily
c) report Bulgaria's compliance on  c) Bulgaria regularly reports to
ODS phase-out to the Montreal    Montreal Protocol on the use of
Protocol                         ODS in the country
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appra'sal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million     US$ million
Foam                                                    6.10            6.00           0.98
Refrigeration                                           5.00            4.50            0.9
Solvents                                                0.70            0.90           1.29
Institute of Refrigeration                              1.30             1.40          1.08
Institutional Strengthening                             0.20            0.40              2
Local Financial Agent Fee                               0.30            0.30              I
Total Baseline Cost                                    13.60           13.50
Total Project Costs               13.60            13.50
Total Financing Required                13.60           13.50
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expaediture Cateigory     IC           NC    Methoe              N.S.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         9.60         3.10          12.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (9.60)       (0.00)        (9.60)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.60         0.00          0.60
Technical Assistance and    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.60)       (0.00)        (0.60)
Training
4. Incremental Operating     0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Costs
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Local Financial Agent     0.00          0.00         0.30         0.00          0.30
Fee                         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.30)       (0.00)        (0.30)
Total                     0.00          0.00         10.50        3.10          13.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (10.50)       (0.00)      (10.50)
Note: Works are lumped into the Goods figures
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
:0:t: 0 :00 V:00 :0    :tN      0ProcuemntMethod
Expenditure Category        B :rocuremen    Othr2                N.B,F.      Total Cost
NC8         Other
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.20         0.50          0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)        (0.20)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         7.60         3.40          11.00
________________________    (0.00)        (0.00)       (7.60)       (0.00)        (7.60)
- 22 -



3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.90           0.00           0.90
Technical Assistance and        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.90)        (0.00)          (0.90)
Training
4. Incremental Operating        0.00            0.00           0.60           0.00           0.60
Costs
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.60)         (0.00)         (0.60)
5. Local Financial Agent         0.00           0.00           0.30           0.00            0.30
Fee                             (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.30)         (0.00)         (0.30)
Total                         0.00           0.00           9.60           3.90           13.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (9.60)         (0.00)         (9.60)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes Limited Intemational Bidding, International Shopping, Local Shopping, and Direct Contracting
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis was not perforned for the project since the environmental benefits of the project
would be difficult to quantify.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
SgfPojectCyc                          No. of Persons and Specialty                Perfomance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation       Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
September '94 to                I   Task Team Leader
April '95                      I   Environmental Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
3    Technical Specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
Septembe '95 to                      Task Team Leader
Septernber '95                 I    Environmental Economist
I    Project Officer
I   Financial Analyst
2    Technical Specialists
Supervision
I  Task Team Leader
I  Technical Specialist
I  Procurement Officer
I  Project Officer
June '96                                                                   S                  S
June '97                                                                   U                  U
December '97                                                               U                  U
June '98                                                                   S                  S
November'98                                                                S                  S
March '99                                                                  S                  S
October '99                                                                S                  S
November '99                                                               S                  S
January'00                                                                 S                  S
ICR
May '00                         I   Task Team Leader                       S                  S
I   Project Officer
I    ODS technical Specialist
I    Procurement Officer
-25 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
:________________________               No. Staff weeks                3us $  (,000)
Identification/Preparation                      54                             158
Appraisal/Negotiation                           14                              28
Supervision                                     98                             180
ICR                                              5                               9
Total                                          171                             375
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies
F Sector Policies                             OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
F Physical                                   OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
FS Financial                                 OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
* Institutional Development                   O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
* Environmental                              *H  OSUOM  ON  ONA
Social
II Poverty Reduction
O Gender
F Other (Please specify)              OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
Job Creation - The project contributed to
the revival of enterprises since it facilitated the
technology conversion that would allow the
enterprises to meet the demands of non-ODS
products in the domestic andforeign markets. This
created new jobs (Section 4.3)
D Private sector development                 O H  0 SU O M  O N  O NA
El Public sector management
LII Other (Please specify)
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
X Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
X Supervision                                       OHS*S  OU  OHU
? Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
M Overall                                           OHS OS  O U 0 HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Country Program for Phase-out of ODS in Bulgaria (May 1994)
2. Bulgaria: Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-out Project (Bank's appraisal docunent, October 1995)
3. Sub-project completion reports
- 29 -



