Report No. PID6715
Project Name                     Ethiopia-Health Sector Development (+)
Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Health Nutrition Population
Project ID                       ETPA756
Borrower                         Government of Ethiopia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health
Address: Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact: Ato Abduletif Abas
Director, Planning and Project Department
(MOH/PPD)
Telephone: (251-1) 151791
Fax: (251-1) 512691
Regional Health Bureaux
Date this PID prepared           August 13, 1998
Projected Appraisal date         May 18, 1998
Projected Board date             September 15, 1998
1.      COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND.   The health status of Ethiopians is
poor, even relative to other low-income countries, including those in Sub-
Saharan Africa. The crude death rate is approximately 18 per 1,000 population,
more than double that of Kenya and second only to Uganda in Eastern Africa.
Life expectancy at birth is 52 years. Infant mortality is approximately 110-
128 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1995, while the child mortality rate is
204 deaths per 1,000. Largely preventable childhood and maternal illnesses and
communicable diseases remain the major causes of death in Ethiopia. When peri-
natal and maternal conditions are added, the health problems of mothers and
children combined account for 50 percent of all deaths and 56 percent of
discounted life years (DLYs) lost.
2.      Coverage of basic health services and infrastructure in Ethiopia is low.
Only about 45 percent of the population have access to a health facility
(access defined as having a health facility at most 10 kilometers away). Child
immunization rates in Ethiopia are 28 percent each for DPT and polio and 22
percent for measles. Only 10 percent of Ethiopians have access to proper
sanitation facilities, and 18 to 26 percent to safe water, the availability
of both being highly skewed toward urban areas. It is also estimated that only
10 percent of all births in Ethiopia are attended by trained health personnel,
compared to approximately 60 percent in Tanzania and 34 percent in Sub-Saharan
Africa overall.
3.      Quality of services is also low. Many existing facilities are in an
advanced state of disrepair. A recent survey of facilities found that 47
percent of hospitals, 33 percent of health centers, and 47 percent of health
stations, require major repair or complete replacement. Only 65 percent of
surveyed hospitals, 28 percent of health centers and 57 percent of health
stations had at least 75 percent of the recommended supplies of basic drugs
on-hand. Forty-eight percent of respondents in a survey stated that they had
faced some difficulties while seeking health care, such as inadequate



facilities and equipment within the institutions (43 percent of respondents)
and the lack of essential drugs (23 percent). In addition, staff are
delivering the services in a manner which often leaves much to be desired
technically.
4.      Historically, there have been a number of inefficiencies in the
allocation of Government resources in the health sector. Health sector
expenditures in Ethiopia have tended to emphasize urban-based, curative
services, rather than rural-based care, preventive and public health programs.
Health facilities in Addis Ababa received a disproportionately large share of
resources. There is a similar misallocation of resources across diseases. For
the ten diseases that cause 76 percent of DLYs lost in Ethiopia, total
spending amounted to only 45 percent of recurrent expenditures.
5.      In order to address the above issues, Ethiopia's National Health Policy
was approved by the Council of Ministers in September 1993.     The 10
principles on which the policy is based are:
-       Democratization and decentralization of the health system.
-       Development of the preventive and promotive components of health care.
-       Development of an equitable and acceptable standard of health service
system that will reach all segments of the population within the limits of
resources.
-       Promoting and strengthening of intersectoral activities.
-       Promotion of attitudes and practices conducive to the strengthening of
national self-reliance in health development by mobilizing and maximally
utilizing internal and external resources.
-       Assurance of accessibility of health care for all segments of the
population.
-       Working closely with neighboring countries, regional and international
organizations to share information and strengthen collaboration in all
activities contributing to health development, including the control of
factors detrimental to health.
Development of appropriate capacity, based on assessed needs.
Provision of health care for the population on a scheme of payment
according to ability, with special assistance mechanisms for those who cannot
afford to pay.
-       Promotion of the participation of the private sector and non-governmental
organizations in health care.
6.      A sector-wide approach was adopted in order to achieve the above
objectives. The Government of Ethiopia presented its Health Sector
Development Program (HSDP) at the Consultative Group meeting of donors in
Addis Ababa in December 1996. The HSDP proposals reflect the strong
commitment of the Government to improve social services in Ethiopia and
provide primary health care for all Ethiopians within 20 years. The first five
year phase of HSDP began in July 1997. The entire program will emphasize the
preventive and promotive aspects of health care while not neglecting essential
curative services.
7.      PROGRAM OBJECTIVES.      The main objective of HSDP is to develop a health
system which provides comprehensive and integrated primary care services,
based at community level health facilities. The focus of these services will
be on communicable diseases, common nutritional disorders, environmental
- 2 -



health and hygiene, reproductive health care, immunization, the treatment and
control of basic infectious diseases like upper respiratory tract infection,
the control of epidemic diseases like malaria, and the control of sexually
transmitted diseases especially HIV/AIDS.
8.      The key monitorable indicators in the first five years are:
Health Status:
- increase life expectancy at birth from 49 years in 1996 to 50-55
- decrease the infant mortality rate per 1,000 live births from 112 in 1995 to
90
- decrease maternal mortality rates per 100,000 live births from 500-700 to
450-500
- decrease population growth from 2.5w per annum to 2.3w
Health Services:
- increase health facilities by 2002 in the form of: 216 new primary health
care units (PHCUs), 12 district hospitals, 5 zonal hospitals and 2 specialized
hospitals; and renovation of 150 health centers, 50 district hospitals, 10
zonal hospitals, and 5 specialized hospitals
- increase immunization coverage (DPT3) from 67T in 1996 to 70-80w in 2002
- increase contraceptive usage from 8t to 15-20w
9.      PROGRAM DESCRIPTION.     The program includes the following components:
1.(a)   New health facilities:   216 primary health care units (health center
plus five satellites), 12 district hospitals, 5 zonal hospitals, and 2
specialized hospitals
(b) Renovated health facilities: 150 health centers, 50 district
hospitals, 10 zonal hospitals, and 5 specialized hospitals
2.      Improved quality of services
3.      Human resource development - supply and productivity of health personnel
4.      Pharmaceutical supply and management
5.      Information, education and communication
6.      Management development including MIS
7.      Applied research, monitoring and evaluation.
10.     PROGRAM FINANCING.       The first phase of HSDP, which will run for five years
starting July 1997, will have a total cost of Birr 5 billion (about $737
million). About a dozen donors have already pledged about $325 million in
principle towards its financing, to cover a few special recurrent inputs (such
as essential drugs) plus two-thirds of the investment financing required. The
Government plans to provide the balance of the financing, except for a small
contribution from communities.
11.     PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION. The HSDP is guided by a Central Steering
Committee (already in operation) comprised of Government and donor
representatives which is responsible for the overall management of the
program; and all regions have already established their Regional Steering
Committees .
12      At the center, both the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) and the Ministry of
Health (MOH) play important roles in the HSDP. The Senior Minister in Charge
of Social and Administrative Affairs is the key Government official for the
program; he chairs the Central Steering Committee and personally takes policy
decisions. MOH is taking an increasing role in driving and coordinating the
program. MOH is responsible for the central component of HSDP, and for
organization of all international and possibly some major domestic procurement
-3 -



for regions. An associated central organization, PHARMID, may be responsible
for procurement of essential drugs and other items for the pharmaceuticals
component.
13.     Implementation responsibility has passed to the regions. Thus they will
be responsible for much of the procurement and supervision of construction.
14.     HSDP financial management will use the existing channels, whereby the
Ministry of Finance will pass funds from both central Government and donors
(kept separate not pooled) (a) to central MOH, and (b) from central MOF to
regional MOF, where MOH will obtain its share of total regional funds. A
single set of accounts in agreed format will be kept showing all sources and
uses of funds for HSDP at each level. A single report with agreed
coverage/format will be compiled and distributed at agreed intervals to
Government and all donors.
15.     PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY. Extensive public expenditure analysis and
projections, culminating in the Bank's late-1997 Public Expenditure Review,
have demonstrated that the proposed total public expenditure for HSDP is
feasible and sustainable, provided overall economic growth is as rapid as
projected and the dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea does not escalate,
leading to a reallocation of the budget from the social sectors to defense.
The Council of Ministers is also reviewing a new Health Care Financing
Strategy to help increase total resources for the sector.
16.     LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST OPERATIONS.    The Family Health Project (FHP) is
the only health project financed by the World Bank in Ethiopia to date. Its
Implementation Completion Report is being prepared. The following lessons for
HSDP have been derived so far:
(1) Project preparation: Needs to be thorough to ensure borrower
understanding, and cost estimates need to be based on realistic/current market
prices.
(2) Project management: The responsibility of the central coordination unit to
monitor and supervise the implementation of HSDP must be clearly defined and
should take into account the capacity of the central team. Relationships
among various stakeholders (e.g. the project manager, Ministry and Department
staff) need to be clearly reviewed and articulated in the implementation or
operational manual. Staffing issues and supervision capacity at the center
and in the regional health bureaus need to be addressed up-front.
(3) Procurement, disbursement and financial management: A launch workshop
covering these subjects should be conducted for all regional staff prior to
credit effectiveness. Model bidding documents for national procurement of
goods, works, and services could be prepared and agreed upfront with all
regions. It might be useful to ensure a consistent report format for
procurement evaluations for all regions.
(4) Audits: Issues with their preparation should be sorted out during the
initial stages of HSDP preparation.
(5) Supervision:   Issues (2), (3) and (4) underscore the importance of
adequate supervision not only from the borrower's side but also by the Bank.
6) Program sustainability: The importance of striking a balance between
facility expansion and service quality supported by adequate operating funds,
with an increase in the recurrent cost share of non-salary items.
17.     POVERTY CATEGORY.        The HSDP is targeted largely to rural areas, which are
presently the most unserved or underserved. It will also have a gender focus
- 4 -



through especial attention to women, especially but not only through maternal
health services.
18.     ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS.   The environment category is rated B.      Health
facilities construction under HSDP needs to include water supply and latrines.
Provisions also need to be made for the safe disposal of medical waste. At
the same time, the impact of each health facility is highly localized and
manageable. During the two previous joint donor missions, technical assistance
was provided on health facility waste management and sanitation. Technical
discussions prior to negotiations in July, 1998 will also focus on Government
prepared facility designs and standards. Standards will be reviewed and agreed
upon standard designs and procedures for waste management will be used to
address these issues.
19.     PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES.   The project's principal focus is poverty
reduction. It will also have positive effects on gender aspects of
development and on private sector development.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



