Document of
The World Bank
Report No.1 8366-ET
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 75.1 MILLION
(US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
September 24, 1998
Human Development 4 and
Country Departnent 6
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1998)
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
US$1 = 6.78 Birr - SDR 1.00 = US$1.34731
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB               African Development Bank
AIDS               Acquired Immuno-deficiency Syndrome
ARI                Acute Respiratory Infection
BOD                Burden of Disease
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CHA                Community Health Agent
CJSC               Central Joint Steering Committee
DACD               Drug Administration and Control Department
DALY               Disability Adjusted Life Year
DFID               Department for International Development
DLY                Discounted Life Years
EEDP2              Ethiopia Essential Drug Program Phase 2
ENDP               Ethiopia National Drugs Program
FDRE               Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
HLMPDC             Health Learning Materials Production and Distribution Center
HRD                Human Resources Development
HSDP               Health Sector Development Program
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IEC                Information, Education and Communication
JICA               Japan Intemational Cooperation Agency
KAP                Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
MCH                Maternal and Child Health
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MEDAC              Ministry of Economic Development amd Cooperation
MIS                Management Information System
MOH                Ministry of Health
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NORAD              Norwegian Aid Agency
PAP                Program Action Plan
PHARMID            Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies Import and Wholesale Enterprise
PHCU               Primary Health Care Unit
PHRD               Policy and Human Resource Development
PMO                Prime Minister's Office
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PMU                Project Monitoring Unit
PPD                Planning and Project Department
RHB                Regional Health Bureau
RJSC               Regional Joint Steering Committee
SDP                Sector Development Program
Sida               Swedish International Development Agency
SNNPR              Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
UNFPA              United Nations Fund for Population Activities
Vice President:              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:              Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:               Airvil Van Adams
Team Leader:                David Berk



Ethiopia
Health Sector Development Program
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Program   Development Objective ..........................................................2
1. Sector background ...........................................................2
2. Program  objectives and phasing and key indicators ...........................................................                3
B. Strategic Context ...........................................................4
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the program  ...........................................................                 4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .......................                         ....................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program  and strategic choices ......................                     ...................5
C. Program   Description Summary ..........................................................5
1. Program  components ...........................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program  ............................... ................6
3. Benefits and target population ...........................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...........................................................7
D. Program Rationale ...........................................................9
1. Program  alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...................................................... 10
2. Major related projects/programs financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies ..........................................................                                 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the program  design ..........................................................    11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...........................................................   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this program  ...........................................................                     12
E. Summary Program Analysis ..........................................................                    .                                    13
1. Economic ..........................................................                                                          14
2. Financial ........................................................... 14
3. Technical ..........................................................                                                         16
4. Institutional ........................................................... 17
5. Social .......................................................... 19
6. Environmental assessment ..........................................................                                          19
7. Participatory approach .......................................................... 19
F. Sustai nab ility and Risks ...........................................................                                                      20
1. Sustainability ..........................................................                                                   20
2. Critical risks ...........................................................                                                   21
3. Possible controversial aspects ..........................................................                                    24
G. Program Preparation and Processing ..........................................................                                               24
H. Main Credit Conditions ...........................................................                                                          25
1. Conditions of Negotiations .......................................................... 25
2. Conditions of Board Presentation .......................................................... 25
3. Effectiveness conditions ..........................................................                                          25
4. Other ..........................................................                                                             25
I. Readiness for Implementation .......................................................... 25
J. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................................................... 25



Annexes
Annex I             Program Design Summary
Annex 2             Health Sector Development Program
a. Overall Program Description
b. Regional Summaries
Annex 3             Estimated Costs
Annex 4             Economic Analysis
Annex 5             Governance, Implementation, Procurement, and Disbursement and
Financial Management Arrangements
Table A5.5.2 Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table A5.5.6 Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 6             Key Monitoring Indicators
Annex 7             Program Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8             Documents in the Program File
Annex 9             Ethiopia Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10            Ethiopia at a Glance
Annex 11            Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 12            Environmental Aspects
Map: IBRD Reference Number 29817
This PAD is the joint product of a team sponsored by a large number of donors. The World Bank members were
David Berk (Team Leader, AFTH4), Christine Pena (Human Resources Economist, AFTH4), Gebreselassie
Okubagzhi (Social Sector Specialist, AFMET), Francesco Sarno (Procurement Specialist, AFTS1), Iraj Talai
(Financial Management Specialist, AFTS 1), Richard James (Financial Analyst, ECSIN), Sidi Boubacar (Counsel,
LEGAF), Paul Vandenheede (Disbursement Specialist, LOAAF) and consultants Michael Porter (Public Health
Specialist), Carin Lenngren Martin (Health Facilities Architect), and Paul Davis (Equipment Specialist). The
other sponsoring donors were Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, United States, UNDP,
UNFPA, UNICEF, and WHO.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REcoNsTRucTioN AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Africa Regional Office
AFC06
Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
Health Sector Development Program (HSDP)
Date: September 24, 1998                               Team Leader: David Berk
Country Director: Oey Astra Meesook                    Sector Manager: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: ET 756      Sector: Pop. Health & Nutrition   Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan           Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [] No
Project Financing Data           [x ]  Credit      Guarantee      . Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 100 million equivalent/SDR 75.1 million
Proposed terms:           [X] Multicurrency
Grace period (years): 10
Years to maturity:   40
Commitment fee:    0.5% (maximum); currently waived
Service charge:    0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):  [  To be defined
Source                    Total (000 Birr)         Total (000 US$)           % of Total
Government                                          2773.4                   409.1            55.4
User Fees                                            103.4                    15.3             2.1
Other existing donor commitments                    1447.1                   213.4            28.9
IDA HSDP                                            678.1                   100.0             13.6
Total                    5002.0                   737.8            100.0
Borrower: Government of Ethiopia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Health and 11 Regional Health Bureaus
Program implementation period: July 1997 to June 2002
Expected effectiveness date: December 1998
Expected closing date: January 2003
Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/US$M): 1999  2000 2001 2002  2003
Annual         15    25   25   30        5
Cumulative     15    40   65   95   100
For Guarantees:                              [ ]
Partial
risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$ Million)
Financing available without guarantee:          []  No



Page 2                                                                           Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
A: Program Development Objective
1. Sector Background
The health status of the 58 million Ethiopians is poor,, even relative to other low-income countries, including
those in Sub-Saharan Africa. Life expectancy at birth estimates by region range from 47 to 60 years, with a national
average of 51 (males 49, females 52). Infant mortality ranged 110-128 per 1,000 live births in 1997, while the under-5
mortality rate was 161 deaths per 1,000, and maternal mortality 500-700 per 100,000 live births. Largely preventable
childhood and maternal illnesses and communicable diseases remain the major causes of death in Ethiopia. When peri-
natal and maternal conditions are added, the health problems of mothers and children combined account for 50 percent of
all deaths and 56 percent of discounted life years (DLYs) lost prematurely.
Coverage of basic health services and infrastructure in Ethiopia is low and inequitable. Only about 45 percent
of the population have access to a health facility (access defned as having a health facility at most 10 kilometers away),
with a regional variation between 11% and 86%. The child immunization rate in Ethiopia is 67% for DPT3. Only 10
percent of Ethiopians have access to proper sanitation facilities, and 18 to 26 percent to safe water, the availability of both
being highly skewed toward urban areas. Only 10 percent of all births in Ethiopia are attended by trained health personnel,
compared to approximately 60 percent in Tanzania and 34 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa overall. The contraceptive
prevalence rate is only 8%, and population growth is rapid at 2.9% per annum.
Quality of services is also low. Many existing facilities are in an advanced state of disrepair. A recent survey of
facilities found that 47 percent of hospitals, 33 percent of health centers, and 47 percent of health stations require major
repair or complete replacement. Only 65 percent of surveyed hospitals, 28 percent of health centers and 57 percent of
health stations had at least 75 percent of the recommended supplies of basic drugs on hand. Forty-eight percent of
respondents in a survey stated that they had faced some difficulties while seeking health care, such as inadequate facilities
and equipment within the institutions (43 percent of respondents) and the lack of essential drugs (23 percent). In addition,
staff are delivering the services in a manner which often leaves much to be desired technically.
Historically, there have been a number of inefficiencies in the allocation of Government resources in the health
sector. Health sector expenditures in Ethiopia have tended to emphasize urban-based, curative services, rather than rural-
based care, preventive and public health programs. Health facilities in Addis Ababa received a disproportionately large
share of resources. There is a similar misallocation of resources across diseases. For the ten diseases that cause 76 percent
of DLYs lost in Ethiopia, total spending amounted to only 45 percent of recurrent expenditures.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 3
Ethiopia
In order to address the above issues, Ethiopia's National Health Policy was approved by the Council of
Ministers in September 1993. The 10 principles on which the policy is based are:
*  Democratization and decentralization of the health service system.
*  Development of the preventive and promotive components of health care.
*  Development of an equitable and acceptable standard of health service system that will reach all
segments of the population within the limits of resources.
*  Promoting and strengthening of intersectoral activities.
*  Promotion of attitudes and practices conducive to the strengthening of national self-reliance in health
development by mobilizing and maximally utilizing internal and external resources.
*  Assurance of accessibility of health care for all segments of the population.
* Working closely with neighboring countries, regional and international organizations to share
information and strengthen collaboration in all activities contributory to health development including
the control of factors detrimental to health.
*  Development of appropriate capacity building based on assessed needs.
*  Provision of health care for the population on a scheme of payment according to ability with special
assistance mechanisms for those who cannot afford to pay.
* Promotion of the participation of the private sector and non-governmental organizations in health care.
A sector-wide approach was adopted in order to put these principles into practice. The Government of Ethiopia
presented its Health Sector Development Program (HSDP) at the Consultative Group Meeting of Donors in Addis Ababa
in December, 1996. This program reflects the strong commitment of the Govemment to improve social services in
Ethiopia and provide primary health care for all Ethiopians within 20 years. The entire program will emphasize the
preventive and promotive aspects of health care while not neglecting essential curative services.
2. Program Objectives and Phasing and Key Indicators
Program Obiectives
The main objective of the Health Sector Development Program is to develop a health system which provides
comprehensive and integrated primary care services, primarily based at community health level facilities. The focus will
be on communicable diseases, common nutritional disorders, environmental health and hygiene, reproductive health care,
immunization, the treatment and control of basic infectious diseases like upper respiratory tract infection, the control of
epidemic diseases like malaria, and the control of sexually transmitted diseases especially HIV/AIDS. This is a cost-
effective package.
The first five-year portion of the long-term program is well-balanced, with about two-thirds of expenditures
recurrent and one-third capital. This will permit a significant improvement in the quality of services. The investment
program reflects the focus of Govemment health policy, with about 65% of expenditures at district hospital level or
below. Thus both HSDP objectives of expanding coverage and improving quality will be well served. Finally, the
program is in line with overall implementation capacity. The construction of over 200 new primary health care units
should expand coverage of modem health services to about another 5 million people.
Program Phasinz
The 20-year program started through a first phase, described in this PAD, which covers the five-year period July
1997 to June 2002. The program would be supported through a proposed credit of $100 million, which is presently
expected to be disbursed over the remainder of the first phase. Monitoring and evaluation through a new system being
established will feed into joint Government-donor annual reviews and a mid-term review, as well as special studies, to
check progress. Key indicators of progress in health status and health services for the first five years and full 20-year
implementation are set out below. In addition, agreed core indicators for the overall program that will be used for
monitoring at the 1998/99 and subsequent annual reviews are outlined in Annex 3. Indicators by component are in
Annex 1.



Page 4                                                                         Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
Key Indicators
Health Status
*  increase life expectancy at birth from 52 years in 1997 to 55-60 years in 2002; for males from 49.7 years
in 1997 to 56.2 years in 2002 and for females from 52.4 years in 1997 to 59.2 years in 2002.
*  decrease the infant mortality rate from 110-128 per 1,000 live births in 1997 to 90-95 in 2002 and 50 in
2017
* decrease maternal mortality rates from 500-700 per 100,000 live births in 1997 to 450-500 in 2002 and
300 in 2017
Health Services
*  expand PHC coverage from 45% in 1997 to 55-60% in 2002 and 90% in 2017.
*  increase health facilities by 2002 in the forms of: (a) construction of new facilities - 216 primary health
care units (PHCUs), 12 district hospitals, 5 zonal hospitals, and 2 specialized hospitals; and (b) renovation
of 150 health centers, 50 district hospitals, 10 zonal hospitals, and 5 specialized hospitals
*  increase immunization coverage (DPT3) from 67% in 1997 to 70-80% in 2002 and 90% in 2017
*  increase the contraceptive prevalence rate from 8% in 1997 to 15-20% in 2002 and 40% in 2017
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the program (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17009-ET       Date of latest CAS discussion: September 9, 1997
To directly benefit the poor and provide the foundation for sustained economic growth, assistance will be geared towards
improving the health status of the population, emphasizing preventive measures while not neglecting curative ones.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
*  Low coverage
=> facility expansion in the forms of: constructing 216 new primary health care units (PHCUs), 12 district
hospitals, 5 zonal hospitals and 2 specialized hospitals; renovating 150 health centers, 50 district hospitals,
10 zonal hospitals, and 5 specialized hospitals; plus upgrading of a few facilities.
* Government health care system is (a) highly centralized (b) reliant on vertical programs
=> (a) decentralization, with operational responsibilities devolved to regions already. The health care
delivery system will be reorganized from six tiers into four, consisting of primary health care units (that
will incorporate existing health centers, health stations, and health posts, and provide comprehensive
primary care services), district hospitals (incorporating former rural hospitals and acting as first referral and
training centers), regional hospitals (providing specialist services and training), and specialized hospitals
(providing comprehensive specialized services). Management capacity will be built up at each level.
Potential for greater collaboration between public and private sectors
=' GOE has expressed its interest in encouraging private involvement. It plans to publicize the HSDP with the
involvement of the non-government sector. It will encourage contracting out to private entities for
building, vehicle maintenance and repair, and the maintenance of non-technical equipment and furniture. A
clear policy on community co-management has been issued and guidelines have already been developed by
MOH. The Ministry will need to provide technical support to the regions to get them started on
implementing the policy and guidelines.
Underfunding of the health sector
central Government will provide Birr 2,773 million towards the cost of the sector program 1997-2002;
regions may supplement this from their own resources.
=  a Health Care Financing Strategy is now being reviewed by the Council of Ministers. The Strategy needs
to be approved in order that alternative health financing initiatives and pilot projects can be started under
suitable monitoring.
=  health insurance for both civil servants and private sector employees will be expanded.
=> labor and material contributions by local communities are expected to play a significant role in the
construction of health facilities, perhaps amounting to as much as 10 percent of total costs.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 5
Ethiopia
*  Inefficiency in the use of resources: available resources are (a) heavily concentrated in Addis Ababa and
other urban areas and (b) skewed towards curative care
=> (a) HSDP facility expansion into underserved areas will increase the access of rural populations.
=> (b) HSDP will emphasize preventive care and community-based delivery of health services. The areas which
will receive special attention given the burden of disease in the country are: reproductive health, family
planning, integrated management of the sick child, malaria prevention, nutrition, HIV/AIDS and drug
prescribing. Manpower deployment will be closely linked to facility expansion.
*  Low quality of services due to: (a) lack of drugs; (b) staff poorly trained - pre-service curricula theoretical
and curative/hospital-oriented, and inappropriate in-service training: (c) poor personnel management and
supervision
=>  (a) HSDP's pharmaceutical component aims to ensure a regular and adequate supply of effective, safe and
affordable essential drugs of high quality. A National Drug Policy was approved in November 1993; the
1994 Masterplan for the Ethiopian National Drugs Program (ENDP) has been implemented piecemeal since
but has now been comprehensively updated for implementation under HSDP. Among its aims is to improve
the supply and logistics systems for essential drugs and strengthen the quality assurance program for drug
registration, inspection, and quality control. An attempt has also been made to prepare a strategy for
ensuring greater local financing of pharmaceuticals and related medical supplies and this will be developed
further: in addition to proposed increases in government drug budgets, drug revolving funds which have
been piloted will be extended.
= (b) the focus of HSDP's HRD component is clearly primary health care. It aims to develop large numbers
of a few new cadres of frontline (PHC worker) and middle level (health officer) health service providers.
=> (c) HSDP's management component will address inter alia personnel management and supervision.
* Low utilization of services
' HSDP should result in increased utilization of services by improving their quality through provision of more
inputs (e.g. equipment, essential drugs) and better technical performance of staff; on the other hand there
may be some deterrent effect on utilization of frontline services if some curative care services are no longer
available there, and from the impact of the proposed extension of cost recovery on poorer groups (although
many are exempted from payment).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by theprogram and strategic choices:
The HSDP has a sector-wide approach that deals with all the above sectoral issues, with particular emphasis on preventive
care and health promotion, while not neglecting essential curative care.
C: Program Description Summary
1. Program components (see Annex 2for a detailed description andAnnex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                 Category     Indicative   Indicative   % of    Bank-      % of
Costs      Costs    Total   Financing    Bank-
(Birr M)   (US$M)*            (US$M)   Financing
Service Delivery and Quality of Care    Technical and  2248.8      331.7    50.0    TBD        TBD
Institutional
Health Facility                    Physical            1236.6      182.4    27.5    TBD        TBD
Rehabilitation/Expansion           Technical
Human Resource Development         Pedagogic            135.7       20.0     3.0    TBD        TBD
Pharmaceutical Services            Technical            701.2      103.4    15.6    TBD        TBD
Information/Education/Communication  Technical           57.2        8.5     1.3    TBD        TBD
Health Sector Management/MIS       Management            85.7       12.7     1.9    TBD        TBD
Monitoring and Evaluation          Management            24.6        3.6     0.6    TBD        TBD
Health Care Financing              Management             6.9        1.0     0.1    TBD        TBD
Capital                                                1479.3      218.2    32.9
Recurrent                                              3017.6      445.0    67.1
Total                                                  4496.9      663.3   100.0
Contingency                                             505.1       74.5    11.2
Total      5002.0     737.8   111.2



Page 6                                                                        Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program:
The Government has provided IDA a Letter of Sector Policy dated August 10, 1998 which states the key principles
underlying the 1993 national health policy, the key objectives of the HSDP, and the specific policy and institutional
reforms intended during the five-year period 1997-2002. The latter are, in the Government's order of priority:
1.  To guarantee adequate program management, administration and financial management as well as the availability of
information for decision-making at all levels, MOH will strengthen the capacity of PPD. A detailed plan of action has
already been prepared, and implementation will be initiated in 1998/99. Regional capacities will also be strengthened.
2.  To enhance the promotive and preventive aspect of health services, MOH will:
(a) Develop a national strategic framework of information, education and communication (IEC) and other
implementation guidelines. To assist this effort an autonomous Health Learning Materials Production Center
(HLMPDC) has been established.
(b) Complete and use manuals on communicable diseases control.
3.  To improve efficiency in the use of available resources, alleviate the underfinancing of the sector and ensure
sustainability of the development program, the Government will increase the health budget each year subject to fiscal
sustainability, and will implement a health care financing strategy.
4.  To ensure a regular and adequate supply of effective and affordable essential drugs:-
(a) MOH will revise and update the existing drug policy and put it into practice (2000/1).
(b) Lists of recommended drugs at National and Regiional States level will be formulated and regularly
updated(1998/99).
(c) Modernization of legal and regulatory framework governing drug law and regulations will be acted on
(1998/1999).
(d) Training of health personnel in drug supply management will be conducted.
(e) Further actions in restructuring PHARMID will be taken.
(f) Adequate recurrent budget for drugs will be allocated.
5.   To assist professional growth and job satisfaction, to encourage good performance and to minimize attrition, the
Goverrnment has issued guidelines on career structure and human resource management and appropriate incentive. The
implementation of the actions taken will be regularly reviewed.
6.   To ensure development of appropriate health infrastructure:
(a)  MOH will refine and issue the already prepared minimum standards of health posts, health centers and
district hospitals. It will also prepare standards for zonal and specialized hospitals (1998/99)- (2001/2).
(b) The Government will deepen the decentralization process through effective capacity building efforts to
ensure sustainability of development programs and regional balance.
7.    To promote a comprehensive and nationally uniform improvements in service delivery and quality of care,
MOH will:
(a) develop minimum packages of essential services for all four levels with due emphasis on the critical district
level care (2000/2001).
(b) develop and/or revise service standards for NGOs and the private sector.
(c)  develop mechanisms for the transition towards the 4 tier health care delivery system.
The Government will continue to pursue its economic development through relevant strategies to strengthen the
mobilization of resources for the implementation of HSDP, focusing on health service delivery, promotive interventions
and provision of pharmaceuticals as the most important priority measures.
If there happens to be a situation where budget cuts are necessary, the Government will:
(a) scale down tertiary health facility targets; and (b) phase capital expenditures which will reduce associated recurrent
expenditures. The mechanism for assessing the contingency plan will be the plan and budget annual review.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 7
Ethiopia
3. Benefits and target population:
(a) Benefits:
*  Reductions in mortality, especially infant, child, and maternal mortality, especially from causes accounting for a
considerable proportion of Ethiopia's burden of disease.
*  Reductions in morbidity, especially from causes accounting for a considerable proportion of Ethiopia's burden of
disease.
*  Reductions in fertility.
*  Increases in productivity/reductions in GNP lost through illness.
*  Increases in educational attainment and achievement, through healthier and better-nourished students; and
*  Fiscal savings, eventually, from reduced disease burdens and from smaller cohorts of children requiring education
and health services.
*  Increases in the efficiency of resource use and the provision of services through increased productivity of health
personnel due to improved training programs and better management, also through increased emphasis on
preventive care and IEC and a more equitable distribution of health services and their benefits.
(b) Target populations:
*  mothers and children under five years old, through strengthening of the MCH program and provision of
integrated services
*  population in rural and hard-to-reach areas, through facility expansion and deployment of appropriate health
manpower
*  females, through e.g. efforts to increase female enrollment in training institutions and strengthening of maternal
health services.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The HSDP is guided by: a Central Joint Steering Committee (CJSC) comprised of central government agencies
with donor representatives in an advisory role, which will be responsible for the overall management of the program (and
the parallel program in education); and Regional Joint Steering Committees (all established). The terms of reference
(TOR) for the new combined CJSC are being finalized currently along satisfactory lines. At the center, both the Prime
Minister's Office (PMO) and the Ministry of Health (MOH) play important roles in the HSDP. The Minister in Charge of
Social and Administrative Affairs in the PMO chairs the CJSC, and the national coordinator for the preparation of both
sector programs has been designated as head of PMO's Education and Health Bureau to coordinate their implementation,
as well as to be secretary to the CJSC. MOH is taking an increasing role in driving and coordinating the program. The
Minister of Health is Secretary to the CJSC for HSDP. MOH's capacity has been somewhat limited because of staff
attrition, but it has received approval to add a number of professional staff to meet its needs in areas relevant to HSDP. A
PMU implemented the recently completed IDA-financed Family Health Project and some of its members will be involved
in HSDP. MOH, and especially its Planning and Projects Department (PPD), will be responsible for the central
component of HSDP, the organization of all international procurement for regions and all procurement for MOH, serving
as secretariat to the CJSC, and coordinating overall HSDP implementation. The Government has provided a proposal for
strengthening PPD to play this role. It would be restructured, with one of its five expert teams to be a new one for
procurement and finance. This team would incorporate PPD's staff with project implementation experience and would
handle much of PPD's implementation responsibilities under the program. PPD's total professional strength would be
increased from 15 to 20. Some staff in other MOH units have been transferred and/or identified for transfer to PPD, while
others will have to be recruited; the process will take some months to complete. To ensure that PPD has the leadership it
needs to accelerate the program from now on, the Government will confirm or appoint the head of PPD and the
heads of the expert teams for planning and budgeting, program coordination and monitoring, and finance and
procurement as a condition of credit effectiveness. MOH is also expected to require some training and possibly
technical assistance. An associated central organization, PHARMID, will be responsible for procurement of essential
drugs and other items for the pharmaceuticals component; its capacity is sufficient for this.



Page 8                                                                       Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
Implementation responsibility has passed to the regions and their lower units (zones and woredas, as well as
individual health institutions) for over 90% of HSDP expenditures. Their capacity is quite variable, ranging from very low
in some small-population and/or peripheral regions to levels rivaling if not exceeding that of central MOH in some large
regions. Regions will be responsible for most or all of the procurement and supervision of construction under HSDP. Their
organization and staffing for both of these tasks were reviewed at appraisal. In the largest regions, the HSDP investment
program is actually smaller than, or no bigger than, what they have accomplished in the last several years. MOH will assist
the four weaker regions.
Construction and supervision capacity in the regions to handle several sector programs simultaneously has also been
examined. In practice the road program will not compete significantly for resources with education and health, given the
types of contractors and bidding it involves. The Government has provided its long list of registered contractors, and its
more limited list of supervising consultants, who are available to work on the education and health programs. The number
and capacity of the available firms, combined with in-house and Regional Bureaus of Works capacities, appears sufficient to
take care of the investment program during this period.
The management of procurement actions under HSDP will be complex given the large number of procurement
actions involved and the decentralized administrative structures in Ethiopia. It will be critical for efficient HSDP
implementation for MOH and the regions to prepare procurement plans - both for the whole program and for one-year
tranches with systematic updating. A procurement plan will be required as part of IDA approval of each annual program. A
number of regions have carried out IDA-financed local procurement satisfactorily by themselves under the recently
completed Family Health Project; the four weaker regions will continue to be assisted by MOH. MOH's own procurement
plan (including its bulk procurement on behalf of the regions) for 1998/99 was discussed at negotiations and is satisfactory.
The regions are compiling their procurement plans for 1998/99, and also deciding their staffing/contracting out arrangements
to implement these plans. MOH and the regions should recruit procurement consultants where the relevant HSDP
components are large and the procurement capacity is weak.. The procurement staff will also need additional training,
which started with a Bank- and ESAMI (Tanzania)-sponsored procurement seminar in Ethiopia in July-August 1998.
This PAD proposes the use of procurement procedures, standard designs and specifications, and procurement
documents which hopefully can be adopted by other donors (apart from rules of origin). The standard building designs,
equipment and furniture lists, and specifications for PHCUs, which will be tendered first, are at an advanced stage; those for
district hospitals require additional work. Completion of acceptable tender documents for standard new PHCUs will be
a condition of credit effectiveness. These provisions should help ensure that the procurement track does not lag behind the
processing of credit financing, so that there can be a quick start to implementation.
HSDP is fortunate in following the Education Sector Development Program (ESDP). Arrangements covering vital
areas such as financial management, procurement, reporting, monitoring and evaluation, and even sector program
govemance will all be pioneered in the ESDP which was approved in May 1998. These proposals are detailed in Annex 6.
The agreed arrangements for ESDP will follow the Government's normal procedures as much as possible. They are
replicable for HSDP with only little change e.g. different items being procured such as hospitals, medical equipment, and
drugs which require adapting the procurement methods and thresholds agreed for ESDP. HSDP and ESDP will use the same
standard documents and a common Program Implementation Manual being drafted for Govemment and donor review in
November 1998.   Adoption of an acceptable Program  Implementation Manual will be a condition of credit
effectiveness (as for the education credit). Donors contributing to ESDP and/or HSDP are being asked to agree to the use
of common procedures as far as possible. A consultancy on the possibilities of harmonizing donor procedures in the areas of
reporting, monitoring, reviews, and evaluation has provided recommendations which have been endorsed by the
Government and donors; formats and guidelines for monitoring are being elaborated now and will be incorporated in the
Program Implementation Manual



Program Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 9
Ethiopia
As regards financial channels for disbursement of donor funds, the Government has a strong preference to
channel such funds via finance bodies (Ministry of Finance, Regional Finance Bureaus, Zonal Finance Departments), as
happens with its own funds, rather than through special accounts held by sector agencies, or directly from donors to final
recipients. A number of donors including IDA will use the Finance channel from the start. Some of them (but not IDA) will
provide these funds to the Government as budget support for the program. The Government will continue to provide in
some cases mechanisms whereby donor funds can be channeled to specific HSDP activities and still tracked, with an
appropriate report to all donors on the use of their funds, complemented by an annual independent audit. The sector and
direct channels will be kept open mainly for ongoing programs until donors are ready to switch to the Finance channel.
While basic GOE financial management systems are sound, external financing agencies employing those channels will need
reassurance that the bodies operating those systems have adequate capacity to ensure accountability and prompt reporting.
An independent assessment by consultants of the central ministries and regional bureaus of finance, education, and health is
underway which will cover the needs for both HSDP and the education program. Adoption of an acceptable plan to
strengthen financial management will be a condition of effectiveness (as for the education credit).
D: Program Rationale
1. Program Alternatives Considered and Reasonsfor Rejection:
(a) Government:
Alternatives considered and rejected were.
(i) The initial recurrent/investment balance of the program has been revised substantially (from 50-50 to two-
thirds recurrent), in light of concems especially about the balance between quality of service and expansion of coverage,
initial financing and fiscal sustainability, and the capacity to construct and staff so many new facilities in a short time.
= A number of new hospitals and hospital upgradings has been dropped or at least postponed beyond the period.
> Rapid expansion of PHC facilities will continue but the five-year total has been halved.
(ii) Initial uniform model of service delivery will be adapted to local conditions, especially those of urban areas
and of regions with overwhelmingly nomadic pastoralist populations.
Alternatives that still warrant Government consideration during HSDP implementation are:
*  Many regions will need to prioritize among and within the essential elements of PHC. The importance of
MCH is universally recognized. In some Zones or Woredas enteric infections may be linked to environmental
problems like urban sewage systems; sanitation in urban areas should have priority over rural areas because of
its much larger impact on health, while vector control may play a greater role in rural areas; in some Zones
malaria treatment and prevention are irrelevant, while in others they are of paramount importance.
* Bridging the transition period between the old and the new functions and staffing of facilities will require
explicit planning by all regions; those which have done so are using a varaiety of transition
paths/arrangements.
* Different health facilities provision and staffing patterns seem to be developing in different regions reflecting
adaptation to local conditions (especially urban centers). Guidelines on permitted flexibility would help
regions plan and promote more harmonious human resource development. The guidelines should include
scenario(s) for smooth phasing in of the new system. More remains to be done for nomadic pastoralist PHC,
on which a study will be undertaken in the next year.
*  Further work may be valuable in developing supplementary staffing standards and sets of staffing options that
reflect more closely variations in utilisation, population dispersal and the service delivery terrain.
*  Attrition and staff motivation are considered serious problems by all regions. Existing incentives for staff
motivation should be evaluated and regional experiences shared, then possibly expanded.



Page 10                                                                        Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
*  The handling of pregnancy and childbirth complications at the new PHCU by the new staff cadres should be
assessed in the light of early experience. Given the high maternal mortality rate, it may be desirable that some
cadre in addition to the health officer be sufficiently trained and authorized e.g. the new junior midwives, if
their initial performance is evaluated favorably, or that senior midwives be posted at the PHCU when this is
affordable.
* The location of health financing reform in the structure of the MOH needs some attention. Health finance
reform is more than just collecting user fees, cuts across many departments of MOH, and will require close
collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, MEDAC, the Regional Health Bureaus, National Insurance
Corporation and others.
(b) Bank:
Alternatives considered and rejected were:
A traditional investment project would not be suitable to handle this sector-wide program, where annual work
programs will detail content, and IDA needs to be prepared to act as external financier of last resort to enable maximum
utilization of other donors' funds.
The system is designed to be flexible. For example, annual reviews will allow the work program to be adjusted
according to past performance and changing circumstances. Similar to the ESDP, the HSDP will have a large share of its
credit unallocated initially; this will allow funds to be shifted quickly from activities that are not doing well to others that
are.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 11
Ethiopia
2. Major related prograns/projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                     Program/Project      Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Originally: Maternal and child health (MCH),  Family Health Project          S          S
family planning (FP), MOH institutional     (approved 1988, closed
development. Subsequently also: manpower    1998)
development, pharmaceuticals, access to health
services
Community initiatives and capacity to improve    Ethiopia Social             S          S
incomes, health and productivity;           Rehabilitation and
environmental conservation and rehabilitation;    Development Fund Project
vulnerable groups, especially poor women;   (approved 1996)
establishment of a welfare monitoring system to
improve the collection and analysis of
information for poverty alleviation
Capacity building of the Regional governments    Water Supply Development    S          S
and water supply and sanitation agencies; policies  and Rehabilitation
to ensure long-term financial and managerial  (approved in 1996)
viability of water supply operations,
establishment of regulatory arrangements and
sound investment planning; and short- and
medium-term physical rehabilitation,
augmentation and establishment of urban water
supply and sanitation schemes.
Other development agencies
UNICEF                                      Ongoing programs and
UNDP                                        projects with these agencies
WHO                                         and planned ones per the
Germany                                     HSDP financing plan in
UNFPA                                       Section 1 are being mapped
USAID                                       onto HSDP.
Norway
SIDA
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the program design:
The Family Health Project (FHP) is the first and only health project financed by the World Bank in Ethiopia. The
following areas for consideration have been culled from supervision reports and the 1998 ICR and taken into account in
HSDP preparation and appraisal, and will continue to be followed up during implementation as necessary:
(a) proiect preparation needs to be thorough to ensure borrower understanding, and cost estimates need to be based on
realistic/current market prices. Three HSDP missions and the credit negotiations have served to consolidate borrower
understanding at both central and regional levels.
(b) Timely completion of civil works is a commendable achievement of the project. However, the quality of construction
was in a number of cases a cause for concern. Future projects would benefit from more detailed drawings and
specifications, including a larger budget allocation for supervision. References to required national as well as international
standards should be made in specifications. Moreover, small contractors often have limited knowledge of English. The
Bank standard bidding documents include a lot of technical and legal terms that could be difficult to understand. Thus, in
future projects, it is suggested that essentials be translated into the appropriate local language.



Page 12                                                                       Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
These suggestions will be incorporated into future documents, possibly excluding translation. Finally regular and stringent
supervision by engineering staff of the Regional and Zonal Health Bureaus and MOH is essential to good quality civil
works. Some regions have taken necessary measures, but the implementation capacity of other regions such as Afar,
Benishangul-Gumuz, Gambella, and Somali have remained relatively weaker. Thus continued technical support was
needed from the Family Health Project PIU. Due to the large disparity between employment conditions in the private sector
and in government, it has been increasingly difficult for regions to recruit and keep qualified and experienced engineers.
This implies that it might be necessary to rely to a greater extent on consultancy firms or individuals paid on a competitive
basis. This has been agreed for HSDP and will be detailed in the Regions' forthcoming proposals.
(c) Staffmn issues and supervision capacity at the Center and in the Regional Health Bureaus need to be addressed.
The responsibility of the central coordination unit (MOH/PPD) to monitor and supervise the implementation of HSDP has
been clearly defned. MOH has submitted and has started implementing a proposal to increase the capacity of PPD as
described above. Relationships among various stakeholders must be clearly reviewed and articulated in an implementation
or operational manual; this is being prepared.
(d) Importance of procurement, disbursement and financial management. The Bank and ESAMI (Tanzania) have
conducted a procurement seminar for HSDP (and ESDP) staff from the center and regions in July-August 1998.
Disbursement training will also be arranged. Model bidding documents for national procurement of goods, works, and
services will be prepared and agreed up-front with all regions. Having a consistent tender evaluation report format for all
regions will be pursued in agreeing the standard documents. Financial management capacity for HSDP is being assessed
and a plan to strengthen it will be agreed.
(e) Preparation of audits. The Bank and MOH agree that the process of preparation of audits has not been fully
satisfactory. Issues identified will be resolved when auditors are selected for the audits under HSDP.
(f) The need for adeguate supervision. The above issues underscore the importance of supervision not only from the
borrower's side but also from the Bank side. Some major delays in project implementation could have been minimized if
there had been adequate Bank supervision and assistance. For instance, the PIU had a difficult time initiating project
activities. To their credit, the staff tried to familiarize themselves with guidelines and sought guidance from colleagues in
the health sector, but they often felt unsure of themselves. Subsequent Bank missions tried to address this problem and
establish a close working relationship with MOH. HSDP will be supervised actively by the HD staff in the Resident
Mission as well as from HQ.
(g) The importance of striking a balance between facility expansion and service gualitv. The HSDP capital investments
can be supported by adequate operating funds, with a sufficient share of non-salary items.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government is clearly in the driver's seat. It approved its major sector policies as long ago as 1993. It
prepared the Health Sector Development Program. It has established steering committees through which it will drive the
program while associating its partners with the effort. It will be financing 55% of program expenditures: given the balance
of the program, nearly all Government funds will be required to cover recurrent expenditures, except some special inputs
like pharmaceuticals, and only a little will be available to finance proposed investment expenditures.
5. Value added of Bank support in this program:
The Bank has helped initiate and coordinate the dialogue between the Government and donors.
It assisted the Government in preparing its presentation of the HSDP to the December 1996 Consultative Group.
Together with the PHRD Project Office it supervised the preparation of thirteen studies in the health sector that were
funded by two Japanese Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) grants. These studies have provided input into
the defnition and refinement of the HSDP.
It has provided technical assistance during program preparation, including Ethiopian participation in East African
workshops on resource allocation in health and on health financing.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 13
Ethiopia
It has helped balance the supply-side orientation of the original draft of the HSDP proposal by focusing the
Government's attention also on demand side issues that need to be addressed in order to minimize the risk of poor
utilization of health services.
It has coordinated/led the joint donor missions which have helped the Government to finalize the HSDP for donor
financing, mobilizing considerable donor resources (the financing of three missions each consisting of one to two dozen
experts) while also conveying and discussing the donors' concerns about the programs.
It has organized a procurement training workshop for both the Center and Regions to build capacity and speed up
implementation.
It has repeatedly underscored the importance of engaging the private sector and other stakeholders in the
preparation and implementation of HSDP.
As residual external financier or lender of last resort, the Bank is able to assist in keeping on track those program
components that other donors do not wish to fund. This also renders flexibility to program implementation in the sense
that funds can be channeled to components that are working well and need additional funding; funds can also be used to
jump-start slow-moving components.
E: Summary Program Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the program file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=  % []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X ] Other
The HSDP prioritizes the expansion of primary level interventions that address the main causes of lost DLYs. As
noted in the Social Sector Review, Ethiopia's burden of disease is dominated by acute respiratory infection and peri-natal
and maternal conditions, followed by malaria, nutritional deficiency, diarrhea and AIDS. The top 10 causes of mortality
account for 74 percent of all deaths and 81 percent of DLYs lost. The HSDP package of primary health care interventions
is highly cost-effective.
Based on the results of the 1997 Public Expenditure Review, the 1998 Social Sector Review, and the findings of
the three joint donor HSDP missions, an economic analysis was conducted. The results are discussed in Annex 4 and
summarized below.
The HSDP's planned expansion of PHCUs in order to improve both access to facilities and the quality of health
service delivery necessary to reduce Ethiopia's burden of disease is justified. It is consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy priorities and follows on the recommendations of recent sector work.
Recent positive trends in both the financing and provision of public health services confirm the Government's
commitment to improving access and quality. The most recent version of the draft Program Action Plan (PAP) prepared by
the MOH provides regional budgets which total 4,497 million Birr (with the balance of the 5 billion Birr programmed for
contingency), with 67% for recurrent funding. This reflects a marked and welcome reduction in the original amount
allocated for civil works, when capital expenditures comprised around 45% of the total, a level that was considered
financially unsustainable. This is also an important issue because it is generally accepted that the operation and
maintenance of health services in Ethiopia are substantially underfunded. However, given the significant increase in
funding for health, the systems through which the recurrent budget flows must also be rapidly strengthened to ensure that
they are able to deal efficiently with increased funding.
The proposed shift of resources towards non-wage expenditures in order to improve and maintain quality is also a
positive development. The focus of the program on reaching the poor and underserved population will yield significant
health and economic benefits over time.



Page 14                                                                        Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
The HSDP will increase per capita government health spending from 12 Birr in 1996/7 to 16 Birr in the fifth year of
the program or US$2.3 per capita, a significant increase but still low compared with the average in low income countries of
US$ 6.0. As a percentage of GDP, the PAP estimates that HSDP will result in increased government health spending from
the current 1.7% to 2.0% in the fifth year given GDP growth assumptions as outlined in Annex 4. The average for low
income countries is presently 1.9%. The Government has reached understandings with the IMF and the Bank in the new
Policy Framework Paper that the health budget will increase each year through 2001 subject to fiscal sustainability.
In terms of phasing of expenditures and affordability, there is to be a substantial increase from the first to the second
years, with more gradual increases in subsequent years. The large increase in the second year is a combination of a 35%
increase in the recurrent budget, and a 30% increase in the capital budget. Given the large underspend of capital budgets in
the years prior to the HSDP due to current constraints on implementation capacity it may prove difficult to disburse this
sudden increase.
The overall budget increases by 40% across the five years. The FDRE can afford its share of the HSDP given the
latest projections for economic growth averaging 7% per annum through 2002. Inflation of 5% annually in year 2 onwards
would absorb 100% of the contingency, but the latest projections foresee that inflation will decline from 4% in year 2 to 3%
n year 5. There is some concern that, in the event of budget shortfalls, the funding of PHC services would come under
pressure, given parallel investment in hospital facilities; or that the level of total investments which continued would lead to
a need for associated recurrent expenditures of the system which would be unsustainable. The policy framework clearly
prioritizes more and improved primary health services and recurrent funding to this level should be guaranteed as a priority.
The Government has stated in its Letter of Sector Policy that, in the event of an overall resource shortfall for health, it would
scale down expenditures at tertiary health facility targets, i.e. above district hospital level, and delay capital expenditures
generally, which would also reduce associated recurrent expenditures.
2. Financial: NPV=US$         million; FRR=     %
The estimated program cost is Birr 5 billion (US $ 737.8 million equivalent), of which 55.4 percent will be funded
by the government, 2.1 percent is expected to come from user fees, US$ 100 million or about 13.6 percent will be funded by
IDA, and the remaining amount (28.9%) will be funded by other donors.
The Government projects GDP growth of 10% nominal/7% real per annum. Its plans include three simultaneous
sector development programs (SDPs) in roads, education, and health. The 1997 Public Expenditure Review found that there
would not be enough resources for full and simultaneous implementation of all three. The Government has been advised to
draw up a contingency plan where intersectoral priorities in the event of a macroeconomic shock or natural disaster such as a
drought are laid out. As one element of such a plan, the Government has stated that it would give priority to education over
health given a drastic, unforeseen budget shock. On the other hand, if an epidemic occurs, then it might reallocate more
resources to the health sector, if necessary.
Allocations of recurrent funding to primary health care (defined in the Public Expenditure Review as rural health
services plus special disease programs) increased over the period 1987-1995 to around 40% of total recurrent spending, but
fell in the past two years to around 37%. This recent trend away from PHC reflects a move towards the rehabilitation and
expansion of hospital facilities. The HSDP proposes to expand PHC services into rural areas, where the majority of the poor
population lives. In turn, it is likely to reduce the burden of disease among those populations where it is greatest. The
emphasis on PHCUs (and perhaps also District Hospitals) is a strategic move, as it can be assumed that these facilities will
be used almost exclusively by the rural population. If fully implemented, the HSDP allocation of recurrent funds to the
primary level of care would increase from around 37-38% to around 45% of recurrent funding over the five years.
Understandings were reached at negotiations that the current share of the total health budget for primary health care (defined
now as expenditure on/at PHCUs and district hospitals) would be maintained over the HSDP period.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 15
Ethiopia
Some issues that still need to be addressed by the Center and Regions are the following:
*  Some items still appear to be underfunded such as maintenance of equipment and facilities. In addition, still
larger drug budgets are needed because the average budgeted per capita spending on drugs is US $0.39 while
WHO's reference figure is US $1.25. The Government is aware of these issues, but points out that Ethiopia is
too poor to attain the WHO reference figure for drug expenditure any time soon. Understandings were reached
at negotiations that the current proportions of the recurrent budget for salaries; drugs and medical supplies; and
other expenditures (including maintenance) would be maintained over the HSDP period.
* Need for the Government to approve the draft Health Care Financing Strategy as soon as possible. The
Government has agreed that the Council of Ministers will approve the Strategy within three months of credit
signature.
*  Some regions are planning capital development projects and PHC activities which cross regional boundaries,
while others treat many patients from other regions; and some training institutions need to serve more than one
region instead of every region aiming at self-sufficiency. These cross-regional subsidies need to be addressed.
*  Reassessment of the criteria for exemption from payment for health services is needed; at present exemption-
granting (by local authorities) is reported to be rather lax
*  The central MOH acknowledges that its mandate is now to provide policy and program guidance as well as
technical assistance to the regions in areas including health financing. Matching the MOH's mandate in health
financing reform with MOH staff capacity and availability is an issue which needs to be addressed.
*  Regional and MOH plans have taken a 5 year time horizon within a 20 year program. MOH also plans to study
long-term financing. Apart from Government budgets and donors, some community contributions to
construction and some cost recovery are envisaged e.g. for drugs, through provisions of the Health Care
Financing Strategy. Care needs to be taken in addition, especially in the regional plans, to think about the
sustainability of the expanding health sector program and the long term financing commitment, primarily of a
recurrent nature, that planned investments imply. In this work it is reasonable to plan on the basis of continuing
economic growth and long-term donor support.
*  Given the fact that regions are financed from central revenues via block grants, there could be a problem of
assuring a sufficient share for health at regional level. The Government has a number of ex ante and ex post
mechanisms to ensure that agreed amounts will in fact be spent on health. Performance will be assessed at
each annual review.



Page 16                                                                            Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
3. Technical:
The new 4-tier health system will provide a model of integrated modem PHC services to an increased proportion
of the Ethiopian population. Experience involving the following remaining questions will be monitored through annual
reviews, special studies as needed, or at the mid-term review, and correction of any mistakes will be made en route.
(a) Need to adapt Government's uniform health service delivery model for new facilities to conditions in:
- urban areas. Specific adaptations of the national standards and strategies to the urban environment have been
decided by some regions with large urban populations; these could usefully be shared with other urban regions. The
following are some examples: specific role of the CHAs in dealing with urban vulnerable groups, staffing standards
with expansion of preventive and promotive activities through outreach activities, dialogue with the private sector and
monitoring of its activities, adapted HP catchment area and adapted HC size and staffing.
- regions with overwhelmingly nomadic (pastoral) populations. Although health service delivery for them was
identified some time ago as a priority for operational research, the time between missions was too short to achieve
innovative perspectives in the required specific strategies and modalities. The Government presented TOR for a study
during appraisal and interested donors have offered financing/consultancy support. There is a need for strong
MOH/HQ leadership.
(b) Need to monitor transition to new PHC system which could lower standards of curative care in some existing health
facilities by removing health assistants from health stations and physicians from health centers.
(c) Need to monitor Government's use of new cadre of health officers to perform emergency surgery (especially cesarean
sections, possibly appendectomies) at remote new health centers, which would have operating theater.
(d) Need to integrate parts of formerly vertical programs at lower levels with other PHC elements in practice to form a
comprehensive package of health services.
(e) Need to keep focus on pedagogical issues in human resource development, such as existing tutor capacity, including
clinical instruction and supervision, plans for tutor training, library and other teaching/learning facilities, teaching methods
and systematic utilization of the expertise and experience in the MOH's health personnel training and pedagogical
institutions.
(f) The funding (budget allocation process) of training institutions that cater to more than one region requires clarification.
At present, the risk of under-funding of some of these institutions is high with probable impact on the quality of training.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 17
Ethiopia
4. Institutional:
(a) Executing Agencies: The HSDP will be implemented under the federal constitution. Central MOH will be
responsible for implementation of the central component and for overall coordination, as well as certain functions of
service to and support for regions, while regions will be responsible for operations and hence for most investment and
service provision. The Government's Program Action Plan includes a responsibility matrix that summarizes the expected
roles of woredas, zones, regional and central bodies in the different components of health services to be provided.
None of the regional and MOH plans developed so far describes the process of decentralization embarked upon in
the past few years, the progress that has been made, problems encountered and plans for additional work. Decentralization
is at the heart of the strengthening of health sector management and, if the sector is to achieve its maximum potential, this
would have to be pursued with vigor on an ongoing basis. Proposals for more autonomous management of the central
referral hospitals, which the Government envisages, should be spelled out (and the importance of the Health Care Financing
strategy now under Government review in facilitating the necessary budgetary autonomy should be acknowledged). The
responsibilities to be assigned to hospitals under regional management, and to lower level facilities, should also be spelled
out
MOH needs to play a more active role in defining health management standards as well as developing curricula for
inclusion in the training programs of the various professionals in the health sector. These t.raining programs could include
basic as well as continuing education for health manpower at all levels. Currently, most of the management functions they
need to perform are not included in the basic curricula and they have to rely on intuition and their experiences. Training
modules have been developed in the area of health services management (of personnel, property, and finances) which
MOH will use to inter alia establish guidelines and management standards.



Page 18                                                                        Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
(b) Program Implementation Capacitv: The most significant constraint on HSDP implementation may be the ability
to manage and execute the range of activities included in the program with its five-year span. At the center, MOH has been
weakened as a result of a number of departures. A specific proposal has been provided to strengthen PPD. Proposals to
strengthen other MOH departments have been included in the central MOH plan. The regional plans include proposals for
strengthening of the relevant units. These provide for staffing increases in key areas, training, equipment, vehicles, new
systems, and in some cases technical assistance.
In addition, central MOH and the regions will each require a number of specialized staff to carry out HSDP
implementation activities such as procurement, supervision of construction, and donor coordination. Central MOH has
included provision in the PPD proposal; it will make use of persons previously or already involved in donor-financed
projects in PPD and elsewhere, serving all HSDP activities and all donors.
The issue of staff motivation is going to be crucial for the successful implementation of the HSDP, especially
considering the high attrition rates alluded to by some regions. As this is a sector wide issue, MOH plans to take the lead,
arranging an exchange of various regions' experiences and possibly attempting to extend existing incentives. The ongoing
civil service reform program is also active in this area.
To make an early start on increasing program implementation capacity, a procurement seminar has been carried
out July-August 1998 in Ethiopia.
The MOH role will include logistics support management, including: port clearance; customs duties, warehousing,
storage, transportation and distribution of the substantial amount of supplies expected to be imported for HSDP.
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation: The Government will monitor HSDP progress via regular reports and decision
meetings along lines suggested by a recent consultancy on harmonizing donor procedures. Understandings were reached at
negotiations on a set of core indicators to be used for the 1998/99 annual review. For national-level monitoring generally,
the Government initially plans to use a set of indicators suggested by the appraisal mission (see Annex 6) in response to the
Government's proposed larger set; regions may decide to monitor expanded sets of indicators. Implementation capacity is
a matter of concern at all levels because of lack of trained staff and logistics to facilitate gathering of information, analysis,
and dissemination. MOH and the regions have agreed that applied research work that contributes to providing baseline
information and also assesses the performance of HSDP will be included as an important sub-component of monitoring and
evaluation. This sub-component needs to be developed and was identified as an area where technical assistance will be
needed.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 19
Ethiopia
5. Social:
The program is likely to have a positive social impact because it aims to help attain the ultimate objective of
improved health status of the population. It also seeks to promote equity by emphasizing services geared towards rural,
underserved areas, as well as mothers and children. Coverage of primary health care services will increase. The
Government hopes to increase utilization of these services through a combination of information/health awareness
campaigns, improved quality, community mobilization, and community co-management. Some issues that still need to be
addressed are the following:
*  Special efforts, going beyond siting health facilities nearby, are needed to encourage utilization of health
services, especially by poorer less-educated rural populations.
*  Cost recovery measures need to take into account the fact that there are many people who will still need to be
exempted.
*  Ability to effectively target pastoralist populations will require special service provisions which are to be
studied shortly.
*  Strategies for targeting women beyond MCH programs and employing them in traditional medical provider
roles such as TBAs and nurses, will need to be developed. Need for gender-disaggregated data and focus on
cultural mores of communities.
6. Environmental assessment:   EnvironmentalCategory []A    [XI B   11 C
a. Environmental issues:
Major: None
Other: Health facilities construction - water supply, latrines
Health facilities - safe disposal of medical waste
Health facility construction is not expected to involve resettlement; if it does so unexpectedly, the Government
would apply Ethiopia's existing policies for dealing with resettlement, which are satisfactory.
Although increasing the number of health facilities might pose some environmental problems such as possible
contamination of the environment through improper waste disposal and inappropriate siting of latrines, mitigating measures
are being incorporated in the preparation of designs, equipment, standards and procedures that health facilities, especially
hospitals, would have to adhere to. Health facilities will be equipped with safe water supply. Technical assistance has also
been provided in the areas of waste disposal, safe water supply, and IEC to promote healthy and hygienic behaviors.
Moreover regional staff will be sensitized to proper siting and maintenance of latrines; supervising engineers at the Ministry
of Health will also be sensitized to environmental issues.
Government-prepared building designs, equipment lists, standards and procedures have been reviewed and discussed
and understandings reached. The Government has also prepared a draft document on Health Institutions Waste Management
dated June, 1998 which deals with the segregation and proper disposal of medical waste of various types which will be
expanded into a work procedures handbook reflecting general good practice, to be followed by staff training. This draft
document takes account of good environmental practices.
7. Participatory approach:
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The sector program is nationwide, potentially benefiting the entire population of almost 60 million. Nevertheless
larger benefits are expected for a part of the half or more of the rural population which has not been served hitherto by
modem health facilities within easy reach; these are also the poorest people in Ethiopia.



Page 20                                                                        Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
HSDP development does not appear to have involved these beneficiaries significantly. However, the first phase
PH'RD-financed studies included household and community surveys; one was on demand for health services, and showed
that rural, less educated, and poorer people often do not seek treatment at all; poorer people like others in Ethiopia tend to
visit the nearest health facility, and they patronize private drug outlets extensively. The second phase PHRD-financed
studies just concluded have included small-scale surveys, exit interviews. etc. which reveal relative satisfaction of the low
number of MOH patients with the services they use currently, despite the variable quality of these services which is apparent
to expert assessors. These findings on demand tend to support the Government's main stress on access via bringing its
health facilities nearer to the population. Nevertheless it would be useful for the Government to explain the future service
model it proposes to the population and seek feedback; this may be especially important in the regions with large nomadic
populations, and - if this has not been done already - in the area of cost-recovery and exemptions from payment.
(b) Other key stakeholders:
The degree of contact with other stakeholders varies considerably across regions. Non-Government health
providers are in principle welcome partners in HSDP. However, plans for future non-government contributions to HSDP
have seemed to be based on indirect evidence more than on direct communication. Non-Government providers' views of
the regulatory and incentive framework affecting them do not appear to have been sought. Recently, though, the central
Government has met with more key NGOs. There has been more interaction at regional level. Prominent NGOs in each
region are eligible to be members of the relevant regional steering committees. The Government is planning to popularize
the HSDP soon with private sector participation.
Regional governments, planners and managers have been closely involved in HSDP work, especially now that the
program is being detailed, given that they will be responsible for nearly all implementation. The highest governmental
organs in the regions, the Regional Councils, approved the regional plans provided to the appraisal mission.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The program has the potential to be sustainable if the following are given sufficient priority:
* both the Central and Regional Governments continue to devote enough resources to support HSDP priorities
such that both PHC access and quality objectives are reached and there is a corresponding increase in the
utilization of health services. Financial sustainability could be improved through successful cost recovery
measures, increased community participation, and improved efficiency in the use of available resources. The
importance of having a contingency plan based on well-defned priorities and phasing or sequencing of
activities/interventions has been discussed with the Center and the regions, in the event that projected
macroeconomic growth is not reached and alternative sources of funding are insufficient. The Government has
indicated in its Letter of Sector Policy its priorities in case of significant shortfalls in total resources for the
HSDP.
*  Well-trained and well-motivated health staff are also crucial and therefore attention needs to be paid to training
programs and career incentives.
*  Institutional capacity to manage and implement the HSDP activities.
*  A well functioning monitoring and evaluation system to help keep the program on track.
*  Finally stakeholder participation at all levels is needed.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 21
Ethiopia
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assunmptions In thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risks                 Risk
______________________________      R ating
Inputs
1 Financing available from the different  S    Government continues to pursue its current macro-economic policies.
sources will be insufficient.
- Economic performance does not meet       Tertiary health facility targets will be scaled down and capital
projections thereby requiring            expenditures will be phased. This will still safeguard priority
reductions in Government's budget        activities.
allocations to health.
- Implementation of cost recovery          Government will strongly support the final health care fnancing
measures is slow and/or performance      policy.Careful studies of the potential effects and pilot testing of
of cost recovery systems is less than    proposed changes will be undertaken before full implementation.
anticipated                              Budgeting, financial management systems and training will be
intensified.
- Donor support is not sustained at       Donor participation in both policy dialogue and in planning and
anticipated levels.                      management of health programs will be intensified.-
Donor coordination through MEDAC and MOH will be strengthened.
2 Current trends in the allocation of    M    Annual reviews will establish acceptable allocations of recurrent
financial resources change.                 budgets.
-Expansion of health facilities increases
the proportion of resources away from
services and toward infrastructure
maintenance/salaries.
3 Proposed facility staffmg norms prove  S    Studies of staffing norms will be conducted and utilization of
difficult to meet.                          personnel will be monitored to ensure feasibility.
Proposals of the Task Force on Human Resources Development will
be implemented and monitored.
4 Staff productivity will not keep pace  S    Personnel management methods will be strengthened.
with the anticipated increased demand       In-service and career advancement training have been programmed.
for program services and management.
5 Maintenance capabilities do not keep   S    An equipment maintenance system will be established. Annual
pace with the expansion of                  reviews will closely monitor the proposed development of
infrastructure, equipment and transport.   I maintenance capabilities at central and decentralized levels.



Page 22                                                                        Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
Process
6  Decentralization of health           N    A review of MOH and Regional structures will be carried out to
administration responsibilities involves  propose specific organizational and capacity building measures.
continuing discussions of the roles of
MOH and the Regions
7   Integration of appropriate services in    M    Training for health staff and IEC for the population will emphasize
the PHCUs and development of referral     the issues of health service supply and demand at the PHCU level.
procedures takes longer than              Development of referral guidelines will be an immediate priority.
anticipated.                              Supervision will be emphasized.
8 Implementation of the civil           S   Recruitment of qualified technical personnel is envisioned and
works/equipment program is delayed.       work will be closely monitored by MOH.
- Agreement on facility design and
standards is difficult.
- Procurement capabilities are            Standardization of documentation and procedures will be encouraged.
inadequate.                             Procurement planning will appropriately package contracts.
- Local construction/rehabilitation
capacities are inadequate.
9  Training programs do not respond     M
adequately to sector needs.
- Training capacity is insufficient.     Investment in increasing training capacity will be closely monitored.
- The quality of training of personnel   Curriculum reform will be an immediate priority.
is inadequate                          Mechanisms will be introduced to control the quality of graduates and
to indicate the need to improve certain training institutions.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 23
Ethiopia
10 Essential drugs and medical supplies are    S
not regularly available.
- Existing legislation/regulations      Proposed legislation will be promulgated.
hinder development of the sector.
- The national/regional drug budget      Annual reviews will closely monitor the amounts and proportion of
is underfunded.                       government allocations to drugs.
Implementation of the health care financing policy should increase
funds available for drug procurement.
- Procurement and distribution of        Continued implementation of the National Drugs Program will be a
drugs is inadequate.                  priority.
Reorganization of PHARMID will be completed, evaluated and further
measures envisioned.
- Poor prescription practices decrease   Regional plans emphasize improved prescription practices.
financial accessibility.               IEC programs will be used to sensitize the public.
11 Technical, administrative and financial   H    Appropriate equipment, training and consultant assistance have been
management capacities are inadequate       budgeted in the central and regional plans.
and lead to slow implementation of
HSDP.
Monitoring mechanisms will be established and implemented at central
and regional levels.
Outputs
12 Utilization rates do not increase as  M    Mapping of health facility development and service outputs will be
anticipated.                               done.
- Targets for coverage and quantity of   Improved planning capabilities should improve targets and results.
service delivery are not met.          Increased community involvement in planning and co-management of
health services will be a priority.
- The quality and cost of services does   Periodic beneficiary assessments will be carried out to determine the
not appeal to the population.          reasons for satisfaction or dissatisfaction with services.
Quality assurance methods will be implemented in selected health
facilities on a pilot basis.
Studies of the cost per episode of illness and length of hospital stay
will indicate areas for improvement.
13  - IEC to increase demand for health  S   Annual reviews will examine progress on this component.
services has been ineffective.
14 Absorptive capacity does not increase
sufficiently rapidly.
- Budgetary/administrative procedures     Management systems and training will be closely monitored.
continue to pose constraints.
- Donor procedures are                    Government is encouraging donors to harmonize their procedures
administratively burdensome.           where possible, starting with monitoring, evaluation and reporting
________________________________  ______ and proceeding to financial management and procurement.



Page 24                                                                     Program Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
Outcomes
15 Anticipated health status improvements   M
are not achieved.
-Other determinants of health status    The parallel ESDP will implement reforms in the education sector.
(education, water and sanitation, etc.)  Water program doing well.
have not been adequately taken into
account.
- Health services continue to focus on  Introduction of the minimum package of essential services will be
curative rather than preventive and   introduced and its appropriateness monitored and evaluated
promotive care.
JEC activities will focus both on changing individual behavior and on
mobilizing local authorities to insist on preventive services.
16 Decision-making remains cumbersome    M    Coordinating structures and M&E methods have been proposed to
and insufficiently based on available   follow the timely adjustment of program activities.
_ _ data.                          I  _ _   _  _  _ _ _   _  _  _  _ _  _  __I_       _  _  _  _  _
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
* Issues related to addressing socio-cultural practices that have adverse health impacts such as early marriage and female
genital mutilation
*  Cost recovery measures, such as charging user fees and tightening of lax exemption procedures, might discourage
utilization of health services by poorer groups
*  Harmonization of donor procedures might not be a smooth process and might remain limited in practice
G: Program Preparation and Processing
1. Has a program preparation plan been agreed with the borrower (see Annex 2 to thisform):
[ Yes, date submitted:  [X ] No, not applicable
Program preparation by the Government was assisted by three joint donor-sponsored technical missions (identification, pre-
appraisal, and appraisal, in Bank terminology), with a work prograrn for the Government from one mission to the next.
Project preparation was based on the sequence and products used for the Ethiopia Education Sector Development Program
approved in May 1998.



Program Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 25
Ethiopia
H: Main Credit Conditions
Condition: of Negotiations
* Proposal to strengthen MOH/PPD (fulfilled)
Conditions of Board Presentation
*  Signed Letter of Health Sector Policy (fulfilled)
Effectiveness Conditions
* Confirmation/appointrnent of MOH/PPD head and heads of three expert teams
* Adoption of plan to strengthen financial management
*  Adoption of Program Implementation Manual
*  Tender documents for new standard PHCUs
Other
*  Council of Ministers approval of Health Care Financing Strategy within three months of credit signature
* Annual reviews to determine following year's activities and IDA financing; therefore limited initial allocation of IDA
credit proceeds (first year only)
I. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
[X I The Program Action Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Technical documents for civil works and equipment for new PHCUs are almost ready. Procurement documents for first
year packages are being assembled and will be ready within three months of credit signature.
J. Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I  [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval.   The project complies with all other
applicable Bank policies.]
David Berk, Task Team Leader:
Arvil Van Adams, Sector Manager:   (2I         .  ,j
Oey Astra Meesook, Country Director: _ ________
,~~~~~~



Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
Program Design Summary
Ethiopia: Health Sector Development Program
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators     Means of Verification    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty reduction through    *  Life expectancy at birth    *  Baseline data
improved health status of    *  Infant mortality rate          available
the population             *  Maternal mortality rate       *  Demographic and
Health Survey 1999
(if conducted as
planned)
*  Plan for survey 2002
Project Development                                                                 (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
1. Availability of health  *  Coverage                     *   MOH service          *  Health service
services (preventive,      *  Immunization coverage            statistics               utilization improves
promotive, and curative)   *  Contraceptive prevalence                                  health status
increases                                                   *  Non-Government
provider service
statistics
2. Healthy behaviors       *  Total attendance (health                              *  Healthy behaviors
service utilization)                                     improve health status
*  Attendance per capita per
annum
Outputs:                                                                            (Outputs to Objective)
1. Access to health services  *  Population within 10 km of    *  Census data       *  Increased access will
increases                     modern health facility        *  Periodic surveys         lead to increase in
*  Equity indicators which take                              utilization of health
into account health service                              services
coverage between urban and
rural areas and between males
and females
2. Quality of services    *  Patient satisfaction          *  Periodic surveys      *  Households find
increases:                 *  Supervisor judgments          *  Supervision records      services offered
useful, of sufficient
quality, and
affordable
a. New facilities adequately  *  Training system outputs    *  Training institution    *  Enough staff are
staffed with well-trained  *  Systematic continuing            records                  trained (properly and
personnel                      education or in-service      *  Central and regional     in time) for all
refresher training              MOH                      facilities
*  Info on deployment           *  Staff census          *  Staff are mobilized



Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
*  Development of                                            and agree to be
supplementary staffing                                   deployed to facilities
standards and sets of staffing
options that reflect variations
in utilization, population
dispersal, and service delivery
terrain
b. Supplies esp. essential    *  Stock and out-of-stock     *  Sample of health     *  International and
drugs and equipment are       information                      institution and stores   local procurement of
available and adequate     *  % of equipment out of action     records                  increased volumes is
and equipment downtime                                   efficient
*  Maintenance expenditure as a                          *  Distribution system
% of equipment capital costs                             works
c. Regular supervision     *  Supervision schedule          *  Supervision reports
system in place                                          _ .



Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
Component                 Indicators                        Means of Verification    Critical Assumptions
Facility Expansion and    *  Number of facilities built and   Central MOH & RHB    *  Construction industry's
Relhabilitation               equipped per type of facility    figures                 capacity and interest
(annually)                                              are sufficient to carry
*  Condition of facilities by type                          out this large health
of facility                                             program (at the same
*  Unit costs by facility type                             time as other programs)
* Maintenance budget as a % of
total investment costs for
buildings and equipment
ByYear 2:
*  Downtime of medical
equipment
*  % of functioning equipment
by type of facility                                  _
Service Delivery and      *  Utilization rates at health    *  Patient survey      *  Patients know the type
Quality                       facilities (HC, HP, HS),      *  Stock of basic          and quality of services
measured by outpatient visits    facilities             to be provided
/per person/per year (also    *  Facility records and
disaggregated by sex)            supervision reports
*  Curative rate of TB ( also    *  MOH annual
disaggregated by region and by   figures
sex)
*  Rate of cesarean sections
performed in health facilities
(by region, hospitals, HC)
*  Ratio of cesarean operations
performed in health
centers/hospitals
*  Rate of post-operative
infections
* % of ANC visits
* % of measles vaccination
* No. of licensed private and
NGO providers (inc. hospitals
and drug vendors)
By Year 2:
* Need to develop I-HIV/AIDS
monitoring system
*  Build in client satisfaction
surveys



Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
Component                 Indicators                      Means of Verification   Critical Assumptions
Human Resource            *  Population per health worker   *  Health
Development                  (doctors, health officers, public  professionals
pharmacists, and nurses) ratios  registration forms
*  No. of trainees by category of   *  Annual training
key staff (doctors, HO, and     institution reports
nurses)
*  No. of facilities staffed by key
staff
Pharmaceutical Supply and  *  Drug availability indicator-out  *  Reports on the  *  Sufficient foreign
Management                   of 10 to 20 kinds of vital       amount of imported    exchange is available
items(core indicator drugs) ,in  and locally           for importing drugs
stock at any given time; target  produced drugs    *  There is capacity for
is to have 10 or 20 kinds of  *  Reports on            drug procurement and
vital items in stock for 75%-   regularity of drug     distribution
80% of the time                 procurement and
*  Drug financing: at least a       distribution
constant share of drug budget   *  Budget
in recurrent health budget   *  Health institution
reports on the type
of drugs out of
stock
IEC                       *  Existence of IEC strategy and   *  Reports of health    *  There are institutions
implementation guidelines       material production    which produce health
(e.g. for materials             units                  information materials
development, research, and   *  Health institution    *  Health institutions are
evaluation)                     reports                encouraged to be
*  Number and % of health       *  KAP surveys             involved in health
personnel trained in IEC                               education
strategy development,
implementation, evaluation,
and communication skills
*  Number of institution and
community-based health
education sessions conducted
*  Number of Baseline KAP
surveys



Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
Component                Indicators                      Means of Verification   Critical Assumptions
Management and MIS        *  Number of health facilities  *  Health institutions   *  There are health
with community management       reports               manager training
committees and whether they   *  Supervision reports    institutions
have met during the last 3                         *  There are institutional
months (meeting indicator to                          mandates to be
be included in the 2nd year)                          involved in MIS
*  No. of supervision visits made
according to schedule
*  Doctors (including those in
university hospitals), nurses,
pharmacists -current no. or
stock and attrition in no.
*  No. of vacant and underfilled
(acting) positions for key
categories of personnel
*  No. of RHBs sending reports
as scheduled
Health Financing         *  Government health spending
as a % of total government
spending (excluding debt)
*  % of recurrent budget spent on
PHC services (National and
Regional)
*  % of recurrent out of total
budget (National and
Regional.)
*  Non-salary items as a percent
of total recurrent budget
(National and Regional)
*  Total user fee revenue as a
percent of recurrent budget
(user fee revenue from
revolving drug funds, user
fees, insurance and other
sources); National and
Regional.
Monitoring and Evaluation  *  M & E structure/organization   *  Supervision reports  *  Legal basis for
with clear mandate and      *  Reviews                conducting research
guidelines                  *  Evaluation reports
*  Number and % of operational
research conducted as planned
*  Assessment/audit of data
quality included in supervision
visits



Annex 2
Page 1 of 18
Health Sector Developiment Program
A. Overall Program ]Description
The main objective of the first phase (1997-2002) of the Ethiopia Health Sector Development
Program is to develop a health system which provides comprehensive and integrated primary care services,
primarily based at community health level facilities. The focus will be on communicable diseases, common
nutritional disorders, environmental health and hygiene, reproductive health care, immunization, the treatment
and control of basic infectious diseases like upper respiratory tract infections, the control of epidemic diseases
like malaria, and the control of sexually transmitted diseases; especially HIV/AIDS. While it has established
primary health care services as its main priority, the HSDP's approach is sector-wide in scope.
HSDP is divided into eight program components for budgeting and implementation purposes. It is
also designed in such a way that the financial allocations by component reflect the relative investment
priorities and the linkage of each component to the others. Overall, the design is intended to enable the
comprehensive program to be well-coordinated during implementation and to result in a fully integrated and
appropriately responsive health delivery system. The total cost of HSDP is estimated at Birr 5,002 million of
which 10 percent (Birr 505 million) has been reserved for contingencies.
The capital investment (base costs of Birr 1,479 million) aims to increase health coverage, equity and
efficiency at all levels of the health system, but with a special focus on the expansion of basic health facilities
and the development of health manpower. The specific civil works components include the construction and
rehabilitation of health facilities (including staff housing in certain cases); construction and upgrading of
training facilities, and construction of zonal and woreda health offices and drug stores. The health manpower
development component concentrates on the training of primary health workers. Supportive components such
as the development of the health management information system and IEC are also covered by the capital
budget.
The recurrent investment budget (base costs of Birr 3,017 million) will improve efficiency, quality
and relevance, but with a particular emphasis on the need to build management capacity at all levels of the
health service delivery system and to ensure the sustainability (technical, managerial and financial) of the
resulting comprehensive and integrated system. The recurrent budget will cover expenses on salaries, drugs
and other non personnel expenses.
1. Expanding Primary Health Care Access (Birr 1,237 million or 27.5 percent of total costs)
(Facility Expansion and Rehabilitation)
This component seeks to ensure access to basic PHC services for all Ethiopians by 2017. This
objective will be achieved through health development strategies that are grouped and phased on a five-year
basis, with the first five-year phase of HSDP increasing coverage from 45 percent in 1995/96 to 55-60 percent
by 2002. Access is defined in terms of facility to population coverage, with each health facility expected to
cover an average catchment population defined below; the facilities include private sector facilities (health
service provision will be contracted out to the private sector whenever feasible).



Annex 2
Page 2 of 18
Current_                                       Proposed
Health Facility Type          Persons       Health Facility Type                  Persons
Covered                                             Covered
Health posts                       20,795  Primary Health Care Units                   25,000
Health stations                    44,509  - Community health clinics (CHCs)             5,000
District hospitals                        250,000
Health centers                    222,850  Zonal Hospitals                           1,000,000
Hospitals                         587,620  Specialized hospitals                     5,000,000
Source: HSDP Program Action Plan
The existing six-tier pyramidal system is highly centralized, bureaucratic and non-participatory in its
management. Private sector and community participation in service delivery is minimal, as is inter-sectoral
collaboration. This system will be re-organized into a more practical and functional one, serving more
realistic population catchment areas, with decentralized management and active participation of both staff and
community.
Health services will be delivered through a four-tier system, including Primary Health Care Units (each
consisting of a health center and its five satellite community clinics), District Hospitals, Zonal Hospitals and
Specialized Hospitals. The standard requirements in terms of manpower and number of beds have been
defined as follows.
Physical Norms by Level of Health Sei-vice Delivery
PHCU                      District Hospital        | Zonal Hospital           Specialized Hospital
For 25,000 people:        For 250,000 people:       For 1,000,000 people:     For 5,000,000 people
10 beds                   50 beds                   100 beds                  250 beds
13-15 technical staff    33 technical staff         60 technical staff        120 technical staff
12 non-technical staff    35 non-technical staff    35 non-technical staff    50 non-technical staff
Source: HSDP Program Action Plan
The PHCU is composed of a Health Center and an average of 5 satellite Community Health Clinics
(CHCs) each serving about 5,000 people, or a total of 25,000, depending on population density and
geography. PHCUs will:
* focus on maternal and child health care, immunization, family planning advice and services,
nutritional health, and micronutrient supplementation
*  provide curative services for common ailments such as parasitic infections, diarrhea, acute
respiratory infections and tuberculosis
*  perform   minor surgery and life saving operations such as appendectomies and cesarean
sections
*  give technical assistance in establishing and monitoring environmental and occupational
health standards within their catchment areas
*  record basic vital statistics and undertake disease surveillance
*  train Community Health Agents (CHAs) and Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs) who will
staff the CHCs.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 18
District Hospitals will serve as the first referral level for PHCUs. They will:
*  provide out-patient and in-patient services; having a minimum of 50 beds to handle medical,
surgical, gynecological and pediatric cases
*  support PHCUs and public health activities of the district, and act as training centers of front-
line health workers such as primary nurses and primary midwives.
Regional hospitals and zonal hospitals will accept referrals from the respective hospitals under them.
Specialized hospitals will train health officers, generalists and specialist doctors while zonal hospitals will
train nurses, health officers and paramedics.
The facility expansion and rehabilitation component emphasizes construction and equipping of
PHCUs and district hospitals. The government plans to build 216 PHCUs, 12 district hospitals, 5 zonal
hospitals, and 2 specialized hospitals, and to rehabilitate and refurbish 150 health centers, 50 district hospitals,
10 zonal hospitals, and 5 specialized hospitals by 2002. In addition 58 other new buildings (stores, training
schools and administrative buildings) will be constructed over the five years.
Progress has already been made on the principles of rationalizing service delivery by level and in
integrating comprehensive primary care at the community level. MOH and the RHBs have recently begun the
designation and mapping of facilities by tier and by type. RHBs will prioritize construction to ensure the
necessary phasing of physical and financial rehabilitation. To ensure that a full referral network is in place a
district hospital, PHCUs, and CHCs will be constructed within each selected geographic area. It has been
proposed that construction of initial district hospitals and PHCUs be based where training of front-line
personnel within each region will take place.
Geographical, cultural, and population density considerations will also be taken into consideration
whenever necessary. For example, some of the regions such as Afar and Somali require special arrangements.
The traditional health care delivery modes will be provided for settled populations while alternative health
service delivery system such as mobile clinics will be used to reach nomadic populations. A needs
assessment will be undertaken to understand how best to reach these populations.
Given the large investment in facility construction and rehabilitation, MOH will establish standards
for all health facilities projects which would include the services to be provided as well as functional
relationships and technical requirements. To ensure sustainable and regionally balanced development of
health infrastructure, MOH will refine the already prepared standards of health posts and health centers in
year 1998/99 and district hospitals in 2001/02 and prepare standards for zonal and specialized hospitals by
June 2002.
Finally, given that regional capacity to implement infrastructure development plans varies, steps will
be taken by regions to strengthen their construction and supervision capabilities; at the same time, whenever
necessary, they will contract out construction and facility maintenance services to the private sector.
Medical Equipment Maintenance
Management of medical equipment will be improved by the establishment of national and regional
standards, the identification and registration of local service agents and the organization of training programs.
MOH will coordinate its actions with the National Science and Technology Commission to have an inventory
and register major equipment in the country (at central and regional levels) and to collect data on the overall
history and maintenance requirements of this equipment. This data will provide the basis for: (a) discussing



Annex 2
Page 4 of 18
common maintenance issues and providing guidance on appropriate actions;  (b) identifying training
requirements and carrying out training programs; (c) organizing studies regarding equipment failure; and (d)
improving medical equipment in the health care system.
2. Improvements in the Technical Quality of PHC Service Provision
(Birr 2,249 million or 50.0 percent of total costs)
The objective of the health service delivery and quality of care component is to increase the coverage
and quality of promotive, preventive and curative activities. The main causes of morbidity and mortality in
Ethiopia are communicable diseases and perinatal and maternal diseases (52 and 18% of years of life lost,
respectively). The organization of health service delivery in Ethiopia is aimed at effectively addressing these
problems by strengthening as a priority the primary health care level and providing appropriate health care
services close to the population. The HSDP also aims to improve the quality of PHC service provision in at
least three main areas: (a) technical training of personnel, especially those in rural facilities; (b) medical
equipment and furniture; and (c) the management and use of medical supplies such as drugs.
In order to respond to the population's needs, as defined through the burden of disease analysis, the
health system will provide a comprehensive MCH package, including child health services such as Expanded
Program of Immunization and Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (ARI, diarrheal diseases,
measles, malaria and malnutrition). National Immunization Days will allow a country-wide coverage aimed
at polio eradication, and will include vitamin A supplementation campaigns. Reproductive health activities,
as conceptualized in the Cairo and Beijing international population conferences, will include traditional
maternal health services, such as ante- and post-natal care, and safe and clean delivery services, as well as
family planning services. New emphasis will be given to prevention and management of sexually transmitted
infections/HIV/AIDS and prevention of teenage pregnancy, abortion and substance abuse.
The MOH has considered the critical situation of HIV/AIDS in the country and will provide necessary
technical assistance to the regions through provision of technical guidance; strengthening of MIS;
information, education and communication to enhance behavioral changes; appropriate budget allocations;
and preparation of a national AIDS policy (approved in August 1998) supporting both disease prevention and
case management. The MOH will also mobilize all other sectors, including the private sector and NGOs, in
the fight against AIDS. The strengthening of existing programs and activities for malaria and tuberculosis
control will also contribute to reducing the burden of communicable diseases that affect the Ethiopian
population.
Given the priority areas of HSDP, technical training will, in turn, focus special attention on the
existing burden of disease (BOD) in Ethiopia, including reproductive health, family planning, integrated
management of the sick child, malaria prevention, community mobilization, nutrition, and HIV/AIDS. These
will be incorporated in the curriculum for training new staff and for in-service training of existing staff.
Further training will also be made available for private and/or non-profit service providers. Obtaining this
training will be encouraged by regular licensing and certification of staff based on continuing health
requirements managed at the regional or woreda level.
Guidelines and procedures for institutionalizing the patient referral system will be introduced to
maximize the utilization of resources. In-service training and workshops will be launched to orient health
workers to the new system of work.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 18
Providing trained medical staff with the necessary equipment and furniture is necessary for them to
effectively perform their duties. Medical equipment, appropriate to the role and responsibility of the facility,
will be upgraded for existing medical and administrative staff, and training provided on the use and
maintenance of the new items. Public and private contracting options for maintenance of equipment and
management of spare parts will be studied. At the same time, efficient management of medical supplies
needs to be improved. One option is to extend community-owned revolving drug funds. Other ways to
improve drug management will be discussed in the pharmaceuticals section.
PHC services will also be delivered in a gender-sensitive manner. For example, the Government will
give more thought to how to design facilities in order to make them more "female-friendly", for example, how
to protect female clients/patients' privacy. Health workers will also be trained to be more gender-sensitive.
To ensure comprehensive and nationally uniform improvements in service delivery and quality of
care, MOH will: (a) develop minimum packages of essential services for all four levels with due emphasis on
the critical district level care in the year 1998/99; and (b) develop and/or revise service standards for NGOs
and the private sector in the year 1998/99.
3. Expanding the Supply and Productivity of Health Personnel (Human Resource Development)
(n 136 million or 3.0 percent of total costs)
The human resource development strategy addresses the issues of selection, training, deployment and
management of an adequate number of motivated staff able to provide quality care. This component seeks to
improve the staffing situation in publicly operated health facilities in three ways: (a) expanding supply, (b)
increasing productivity, and (c) contracting out to the private sector.
Expanding Supply: Staffing needs, in terms of both category and numbers, have been estimated and
will be updated periodically. Central and regional levels have calculated their current staff and estimated their
future needs based on the projected expansion of health facilities; these are presented in the table below:
Staffing Development Requirements, 1998-2002
Additional_Manpower Needed            l Additional  Total
Present                                             Manpower  Manpower
Region           Manpower  1998   1999    2000   2001         2002   Needed     Needed
Center                2376       9       86     30       28      31        184       2560
Tigray                1644      n.a     n.a    n.a       n.a    n.a        860      2,504
Afar                   204      n.a     217    140      251    120         728        932
Amhara                3613      n.a     n.a    n.a       n.a    n.a       1,081     4,694
Oromia                4,201    261      588    488      494    419       2,250      6,451
Somali                 518      n.a     n.a    n.a       n.a    n.a      1,108       1,626
Bens. Gumuz            364    143       100    101       98    101         543        907
SNNPR                 2840     117      148    152      169    187         773      3,613
Gamnbella               82    140        79      10      45      20        294        376
Harari                 173      n.a     n.a    n.a       n.a    n.a        489        662
Addis Ababa           3,655     n.a     n.a    n.a       n.a    n.a      1,122      4,777
Dire Dawa              424     n.a      n.a    n.a      n.a    n.a        147         571
Total               20,094   670+   1218+   921+    1085+   878+         9,579     29,673
Source: HSDP Program Action Plan



Annex 2
Page 6 of 18
Additional training facilities and trainers will be organized to provide the training, based on the
development of new curricula and the reorientation of trainers. Training will focus on community-oriented
front-line and middle-level health personnel. In addition, the training of regional, zonal and woreda health
managers along with a selected set of facility managers of hospitals and PHCUs will be carried out. The
training will be done mainly by Regions. Five post-basic curricula will be revised and about 434 trainees for
post-basic training will be enrolled. Short-term and long-term training and study tours will be undertaken.
The preparation and administration of entrance and qualifying examinations, licensing and deployment will be
carried out. Efforts will be made to establish a sustained system of continuing education at Federal and
Regional levels during the HSDP period.
The National Task Force on Human Resources Development developed proposals for ensuring an
acceptable number and mix of health personnel who are properly trained, deployed and managed. These
proposals have been refined and four components have been included in the first 5 year investment program:
* upgrading and reorientation of the training program at the three existing medical schools;
* upgrading of facilities and improvement of staffing at 5 nursing and 8 health assistants schools,
and construction of 2 additional schools;
- construction of 5 facilities for training mid- to lower-level health workers; and
- training of tutors and provision of appropriate educational facilities to all training institutions.
The anticipated training output of these institutions over the first 5 years will largely meet additional
human resource requirements, even assuming a 10 percent attrition rate. However, it should be stressed that
the figures are indicative and are to be used as guidelines.
In terms of staffing, the National Task Force on Human Resources Development for Health has
proposed changes in staffing patterns at each type of health facility: (1) phasing out of health assistants (HAs)
with existing HAs receiving training to upgrade them to clinical or public health nurses; (2) introducing a
new category of primary health workers (PHWs), with requirement of eight years of primary education, to
replace HAs. The curriculum focus of PHWs will be on primary care; (3) establishing a junior midwife (JM)
cadre with 8 years of primary education; and (4) reintroducing the cadres of public health officer (PHO) and
public health nurse (PHN) who would have at least 10 years of education. PHOs would obtain an additional 3
years of training with existing nurses requiring only two years of additional training.
A prerequisite for recruitmnent of PHWs and JMs is that trainees need to be residents of the geographic
area where they will work. Priority will also be given to applicants from rural areas. Training will be
provided locally and it is hoped that this would encourage graduates to remain in rural areas and small towns.
Other incentives to reduce the movement of trained local staff to urban areas will be considered. Training will
be conducted at the local level, based on national curriculum standards, using various forms of media such as
distance learning through radios.
Other personnel categories not mentioned above will remain but their training programs will be
revised to include social science, medicine and environmental health. Moreover, the literacy and numeracy
skills of community health Agents (CHAs) and traditional birth attendants (TBAs) will be improved to enable
them to read health materials and report vital health statistics. In the future, CHAs and TBAs would be
required to have had at least a grade 4 level of schooling to ensure literacy.
The curricula of priority health worker groups including job descriptions have been prepared and are
being utilised in training new cadres. These curricula include social and community issues and emphasise



Annex 2
Page 7 of 18
primary health care. Training of the "health team" is continuing for most cadres and these programs are
community-based and practice-oriented. Efforts have also been made to increase the female enrolment in
training institutions which should improve efforts to enhance women's welfare in Ethiopia. Regional training
centres, crucial for in-service training, are present in a number of regions with some curricula for management
training and the training of trainers developed, and will be further improved. Some demand and supply
projections by cadre and region have also been developed, estimating gaps in human resources availability
which should be the basis for planning future training and recruitment needs.
To ensure an adequate number and an appropriate deployment of properly trained and managed health
personnel, MOH will issue the National Human Resource Transfer and Placement directives by the end of
1998/99.
Investing in personnel productivity enhancement. Productivity of existing personnel can also be
increased by reducing the number of people required to provide the same set of health services. It is hoped
that by including education and training responsibilities and supervision of lower level staff in the terms of
reference of higher level staff that productivity could be enhanced, especially if there are chances for
advancement and increased prestige attached to these additional responsibilities.
The re-establishment of regular meetings of woreda level health staff for continuing education
purposes could also help improve staff knowledge and service quality. Use of technology such as radio
communication linkages could also help facilitate sharing of knowledge and experiences among staff in
different health facilities and could lead to better health care provision and health service management.
Finally, the manpower development strategy recognizes the need to develop a comprehensive
proposal for employing and motivating health workers at alll levels. Recent efforts to establish a new pay
scale and career structure and to issue guidelines for the assessment of performance will be supplemented by
other measures within the framework of the civil service reform program.
Contracting with Private Providers of Care. Non-government health care providers will be
encouraged in order to increase the supply of available services and create healthy competition. The
Government will encourage contracting out building, vehicle maintenance and repair.
4. Improvements in the Pharmaceutical Sector (Birr 701 million or 15.6 percent of total costs)
This component aims to: (a) ensure a regular and adequate supply of effective, safe, and affordable
high quality drugs and (b) improve prescribing behavior by health providers. In order to improve prescribing
behavior, authorities from the MOH and regional departments will require prescriptions to be issued on
standard forms provided by the Government. The development of an essential drugs list for all health service
levels is a priority after which systems of procurement, distrilbution, storage and utilization will be improved.
Progress has already been made. The National Drug Policy (NDP) was approved in November 1993
and the Masterplan for the Ethiopian National Drugs Program (ENDP) was completed in February 1994. The
principal elements of this proposed program include: (a) strengthening the policy and regulatory framework
for the management of a national drugs program; (b) improving the supply and logistics systems for essential
drugs, (c) developing a program for rationalizing drug use, and (d) strengthening the quality assurance
program in terms of drug registration, inspection, quality control, and control of narcotic and psychotropic
substances. Legislation on the pharmaceutical sector is expected to be approved by the Council of Ministers
and Parliament by the end of 1998. Within MOH, the Drug Administration and Control Department (DACD)
is responsible for coordinating implementation of the legislation. In carrying out this responsibility, DACD



Annex 2
Page 8 of 18
will need additional staff and resources. In terms of staff recruitment and retention, it will have to deal with
competition from the private sector.
Aside from the proposed set of activities in the NDP, other areas in the pharmaceutical component
that need to be addressed are: (a) reviewing local production and procurement of essential drugs; (b) assessing
the importance and role of retail pharmacies and rural drug sellers in health service provision; (c) encouraging
the expansion of community pharmacies and drug revolving fund programs; and (d) planning how to ensure a
steady supply of essential pharnaceutical items for PHC programs. With regard to the last area, the drug
financing strategy will play an important role. Within the context of the overall health care financing strategy,
this drug financing strategy will address the issues of reducing costs by increasing the efficiency of drug
procurement and management, as well as increasing revenues through the sale of drugs with a minimal mark-
up.
To ensure a regular and adequate supply of effective and affordable essential drugs, MOH will revise
and update the existing drug policy, and issue and implement the drug law, and update the Essential Drug List
at national and regional levels.
5. Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) (Birr 57 million or 1.3 percent of total
costs)
A significant portion of Ethiopia's burden of disease can be attributed to preventable diseases and
nutritional deficiencies. Thus the goals of this component would be to (a) improve awareness about personal
and environmental hygiene and basic knowledge of common diseases and their causes; as well as (b) promote
political and community support for health services through educating and influencing planners, policy
makers, managers, women's groups, and potential collaborators.
The first step is to have a national IEC plan and strategy for implementation based on Ethiopia's
prevailing burden of disease. The MOH will take the lead in developing such a strategy that would allow
enough flexibility to regional governments to adapt these guidelines to their local situation using their own
local languages. MOH will also provide technical support and guidance to the Regions to improve their ability
to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate (including operational research). Media such as radios and other
means of communicating messages will be explored. Skills and knowledge of Central and Regional IEC
coordinators will be upgraded to improve and expand IEC functions at all levels.
In preparing this strategy, an inventory of IEC materials from all public and private sources will be
undertaken. Local and regional health departments will also be encouraged to be more involved in planning
the designs and options for implementing investments which might have a potential adverse impact on health
status such as those in industry and in dam construction.
Priority areas for IEC messages would be determined by periodic reviews of the prevailing burden of
disease; regional authorities would play an important role in strengthening the content of the message.
Funds will also be allocated to monitor the performance of the IEC component in terms of how well
the messages have increased awareness and caused behavioral changes.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 18
6. Health Sector Management and Management Information Systems
(Birr 86 million or 1.9 percent of total costs)
This component seeks to transform the highly centralized health system into a four tier system that is
appropriately linked, equitably distributed, and managed in a decentralized, participatory, and efficient
manner.
Important measures to realize this component's goals are (a) decentralization or the devolution of
power, decision-making and services to the regions and (b) capacity building. Decentralization policy has
been implemented rapidly in the health sector, with regional governments receiving considerable financial
authority and responsibility for nearly all health facilities and health personnel training centers. At the same
time, the Government recognizes the difficulties of redefining roles and relationships between central and
regional levels; and the costs of building implementation capabilities at regional, zonal and woreda levels.
While attempting to minimize the financial costs of iincreasing program and administrative responsi-
bilities at local levels, the Government remains committed to the overall objective of decentralization in order
to: (a) ensure a responsive political and administrative system; and (b) encourage popular participation in
regional development activities.
Given the continuing discussions between MOH and the Regions concerning their respective
responsibilities after the decentralization and reorganization of health services, the Government will continue
to review MOH's role, structure and capacity and to propose specific organizational and capacity building
measures for MOH, the Regions and the local health administration structures.
In order to achieve its goal of a well-managed and participatory health system, this component aims to
improve skills in the areas of policy formulation, planning and budgeting, financial management, program
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation for staff of the MOH and the regions. To enable managers at
regional, zonal and woreda levels to execute their mandates, HSDP envisions adequate staffing, accelerated
training of managers and the rehabilitation or construction and equipment of offices.
As part of capacity building, the planning, management, and administrative capacity of regions and
lower levels will need to be strengthened. To do so, training of regional and lower level health managers and
the rehabilitation, building, and equipping of offices at the regional, zonal and woreda levels will be
undertaken.
Overall, 23 training program curricula will be revised to include management courses. Additionally,
training of manager trainers will be done by the Regional Training Centers with support from the center.
Training manuals for program, personnel and financial management have been prepared, and supervision
mechanisms (including supervision checklists) will be instituted at all levels and implemented in an integrated
approach. Over time the Regional Health Bureaus will assume responsibility for training their own staff to
manage health facilities, health programs and health information systems.
In addition to generalized management training, the program will support the further devolution of
management authority and responsibility to the local level in hospitals, PHCUs and other health providers.
Service standards for non-government organizations and the private sector will be revised and/or developed
and implemented. Community co-management of health services will be enhanced through the development



Annex 2
Page 10 of 18
of minimum packages of essential services and through the strengthening of the facility-level management
committee's role.
In all facility levels, processes will be devised to make performance reviews function effectively. The
government will be involved in periodic progress reviews and provide assistance to the individual facilities in
devising processes which they can implement to make improvements continuously happen. In this regard
management training needs to be improved through investments in a management training institution and
curriculum. Modern communication methods such as distance learning will be used to strengthen training
programs and institutions.
Proper management will require adequate systems for ensuring rational use of human and material
resources, for sound financial accounting, and for reliable health statistics and information. HSDP will support
improvements in management information systems in order: (a) to document disease patterns, increases in
PHC service provision and coverage, and improvements in health status; and (b) to improve decision-making
at the regional, zonal and woreda levels.
All of these systems are in early stages of development at the regional and zonal levels and will
require sustained technical and financial support. Given the complexity of management problems and the
varying administrative arrangements across regions (some regions do not have zones or woredas, others have
zones but no woredas), HSDP will focus initially on the regional and zonal levels. At the same time, the
responsibilities for health facility supervision among regional health bureaus (RHBs), zonal health
departments (ZHDs) and woreda health offices (WHOs) will be better defined and reinforced.
The goal is to establish an improved and appropriate information system and to introduce
participatory planning, as well as a monitoring and evaluation system. Information units will be established at
the woreda, zonal, and regional levels with a separate institution at the central level that will be responsible
for collecting and assessing information. The proposal is to have the Central Joint Steering Committee of
HSDP oversee progress and make strategic decisions, To ensure adequate program management,
administration and financial management as well as the availability of information for decision-making at all
levels, MOH will strengthen the capacity of PPD to support the Central Joint Steering Committee.
Major inputs for this component are: equipment, modern means of communicating information
from one administrative level to another, and staff training in data processing and methods of utilizing
information.
7. Monitoring and Evaluation and Applied Research
(Birr 25 million or 0.6 percent of total costs)
The objectives of this component are: (a) to monitor improvements in service delivery, quality and
financial performance; and (b) to evaluate the impact, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of HSDP's
components. HSDP will support the design of an integrated monitoring and evaluation system for each of the
individual components of HSDP and the implementation of the overall M&E system at all levels of the health
service delivery system, including the center, the regions/zones/woredas and the service providing health
facilities. Guidelines will be developed which will outline the necessary knowledge, skills and procedures for
the potential users. Facilities, equipment, materials and training will be upgraded, and periodic reviews will
be held to strengthen the Regions' and the Ministry's capacity in monitoring and evaluation.



Annex 2
Page 11 of 18
All health facilities will submit quarterly and annual reports. Feedback on received reports will be
sent out to facilitate resolution of constraints encountered, and utilization of information at the different levels
to facilitate informed decision-making will be promoted.   Agreed indicators will be used to assess
implementation of programs by all concerned. Studies and operational research activities will be encouraged
and implemented by selected hospitals and health centers within their respective service catchment areas.
The capacity of the different administrative levels to do applied research that helps facilitate
monitoring and evaluation (for example, impact assessments measuring beneficiary satisfaction) will be
developed.
Research in both applied and scientific areas will be undertaken. Funds will be made available
through existing research funding institutions such as the National Science and Technology Commission.
Research projects will be evaluated based on their relevance to the needs of the Ethiopian health sector.
8. Improvements in the Financial Sustainability of the Health Sector
(Birr 7 million or 0.1 percent of total costs)
The objectives of this component are to improve public health sector efficiency and to generate
additional and new sources of revenue.
Since 1992, the Government has taken steps not only to increase the overall share of health in the
budget but also to reallocate resources away from urban hospital-based curative services toward more
preventive care emphasizing the rural population. Despite such measures, and assuming increased demand
(from improved access to quality care, increased incomes aLnd willingness to pay for health services, and
improvements in the educational status of the population), the health sector will still need to find ways to
finance increased volumes and improved quality of services.
Additional modalities for health care financing are needed to make the HSDP sustainable. The
Government has prepared a Health Care Financing Strategy document which is now being reviewed by the
Council of Ministers. The document proposes strategies for both improving government health sector
efficiency and generating additional and new sources of revenue. Based on the Government's decision
concerning the proposed Strategy, MOH will make use of studies conducted in different areas of health care
financing and also will undertake a series of studies to analyze the potential impact of and modalities for:
increases in user fees, the development of revolving drug funds, the initiation of private or
community/employer-based social financing schemes and insurance plans and the community-based schemes,
and the encouragement of private sector/NGO participation in health service delivery.
Efficiency gains. Efficiency gains will result from improvements in the allocation of resources, in the
management of resources and in the rationalization of curative care. Among the allocative measures in
progress are: (a) focusing on interventions with the largest public health impact (both sectoral and
intersectoral, such as safe water and proper sanitation); (b) clustering health services for specific target groups
(notably mothers and children and nomadic groups); and (c) tailoring of the supply of services according to
the different burden of disease patterns across regions. Among the operational efficiencies currently being
implemented are: (a) the reorganization of health facilities and the devolution of responsibility for health
facilities to local authorities; (b) improvements in the management of personnel; and (c) the restructuring of
PHARMID. Among the therapeutic efficiencies in progress,, the most important concern: (a) the use of
essential generic drugs; and (b) the promotion of rational drug use supported by appropriate diagnostic



Annex 2
Page 12 of 18
services and treatment protocols. Implementation of the measures envisioned by HSDP will continue to
increase efficiency gains in the health sector.
Mobilization of additional resources. The Government is firmly enforcing a ceiling of Br. 5 billion for
implementation of the first phase of HSDP and expects to finance this amount through a combination of its
own revenues, proceeds from user fees and external assistance. While Government commitment to support
the health sector financially is high, the share of total government spending allocated to health is expected to
rise only modestly in the medium term (from around 6 percent in FY1996 to perhaps over 7 percent in the
year 2000). Important increases in financial resources are anticipated from user charges and from external
assistance. During the March 1997 Government-Donors Meeting at Debre Zeit US$323 million was pledged
in support of HSDP.
Based on its assessment of its experience in public pharmacies, the Government will extend the
Bamako Initiative of community-managed revolving drug funds. Funds from the HSDP could be used as the
startup funds for these revolving funds.
Various forms of community-initiated insurance schemes will be reviewed for possible
implementation during this five-year period with the anticipation that after review and modification they
might be further extended. For example, the PHRD studies raised the possibility of developing community
insurance funds through the edir system and cooperative-based schemes.
Aside from a health policy that encourages the private sector, the Government will also take other
steps to stimulate non-governmental participation in the health sector such as actively seeking private and/or
NGO investments in health facilities. The government will also work with the international donor community
to find other potential sources of private financial support for health sector initiatives such as for drugs and
other medical supplies. It will also revisit the regulatory processes for issuing private sector clinic licenses and
establish clear guidelines with input from the private and NGO sectors on obtaining government clearances to
operate in Ethiopia.
In addition, health facilities and health administration will strengthen the management of their cost
recovery systems which includes the revision of these systems, improved financial accounting and reporting at
facility level, and improved budgeting and resource management at all levels.



Annex 2
Page 13 of 18
B. Regional Summaries 2
Tigray Region
General
Tigray occupies an area of 80,000 sq. kilometers in the northern part of Ethiopia. Its population in
July 1997 was estimated at 3.36 million with 49.1% males and 50.9% females and an annual population
growth rate of 3 percent. Tigray is divided into five zones and 35 woredas. The main economic activity in
the region is agriculture. The official language in the region is Tigrigna, and the main religions in the region
are Christianity and Islam. The overall literacy rate in the region is estimated to be 20%.
In the region, in 1997/1998 there were 7 hospitals with 762 beds, five zonal clinics with 184 beds,
fifteen health centers with 49 beds and 153 health stations. The present coverage of health services is
estimated to be 46%.
HSDP
Capital Investment:   Birr 70,702,681
Recurrent Investment: Birr 241,474,919
Total: Birr 312,177,600
Afar Region
General
The Afar National Regional State is located in the north-eastern part of Ethiopia and has a total area
of 270,000 sq. kms. According to the 1996 population and housing census, the total population of the region
is estimated to be 1,106,383 of which 626,839 (56.7%) are males and 479,544 (43.3%) are females
respectively. Administratively, the region is organized into five zones, 1 special woreda, 326 farmers
associations and 32 kebeles in the rural and urban areas respectively. The majority of the population are
nomadic and semi-nomadic pastoralists. Livestock rearing is the basic means of livelihood. A considerable
proportion of the potential land which is around the Awash river catchment area and other resource rivers is
being cultivated for cash crops (cotton) and food crops. The religious composition of the population of the
Region is 95.6% Muslims and 3.9% Christians.
The health service coverage is estimated to be about 11%. The existing health care delivery system of
the region is very limited and the lowest. There are two hospitals with 65 beds, four health centers and 54
health stations. There are 264 health workers of all types of categories, and out of this 134 are health
assistants, 10 CHA and 32 traditional birth attendants. The turnover of the health workers is high because of
poor living conditions.
HSDP
Capital Investment:   Birr 104,440,077
Recurrent Investment: Birr 100,939,923
Total: Birr 205,380,000
Detailed regional and MOH costs are in Annex 3
2 Regional health status and health service indicators (baseline and targets for 2001/02) are in Annex 6, page 3



Annex 2
Page 14 of 18
Amhara Region
General
Amhara National Regional State is located in the north-western part of Ethiopia and it has an area of
170752 sq. kms. It has a population of about 14,769,360 out of which 49.8% are females and 50.2% males.
90.4% of the population resides in the rural areas. The current average annual population growth stands at
3.17 percent. The language of communication is Amharic. The main religion of the population is Christianity
and Islam. 80% of the population is Orthodox Christian, 18% Muslims, 2% Catholics and Protestants and the
remaining 1.8% are unspecified. The literacy rate of the Region is only 18%. Agriculture is the backbone of
the Region's economy with some industrial activities, fishing, tourism, mining and other natural resources.
Road, air and marine transportation exist in the Region. However, it is far from adequate. The Region is
divided into 11 administrative zones, 105 districts and 3051 kebeles.
There are 11 hospitals, 53 health centers, 532 health stations and 132 health posts; 1 regional health
research laboratory and 1 health management training center. There are also 3 training schools for junior
health workers. In addition, there is one teaching and 1 army hospital in the Region. The health service
coverage of the region at present is around 37%. Progress in the expansion of health services in the last five
years has been significant. The construction of 135 health stations; 14 health centers; 2 hospitals and 132
health posts was completed. In addition and in the same period rehabilitation of 146 health stations; 6 health
centers and 5 hospitals has been finished. 9 health centers and 2 hospitals are under construction. The work
will be completed during the current fiscal year. The construction work of 6 health centers and 77 health
posts is underway. More than 70% of the Region is endemic for malaria. There are 3803 health workers and
2843 administrative staff in the Regional health sector respectively. The participation of the private sector in
the health field is low. Hence, there are 94 clinics, 22 pharmacies, 27 drug shops and 236 rural drug retail
shops in the entire Region. There is a great need to expand the health services delivery system to reach the
unserved large rural population.
HSDP
Capital Investment:   Birr 229,189,765
Recurrent Investment: Birr 554,836,698
Total: Birr 784,026,463
Oromia Region
General
Oromia Regional State is located in the central part of Ethiopia covering an area of 366,910 square
kilometers. Its population size as of the year 1997 is about 20,012,952, out of which males are 10,008 070
and females 10,004,082. The annual population growth is 2.47%. About 89 percent of the population reside
in rural areas. The population uses Oromigna as a language. The Region is divided into 12 zones and 180
woredas, each with its elect autonomous administrative councils. The woredas are divided into 564 kebeles in
towns and 10,161 peasant associations in the rural areas. The economy of the Region depends mainly on
agriculture. 22.4 percent of the population is literate. Communication and transport is limited. Nearly half of
the population is Christian 44.3 percent are Muslims and the remaining belong to traditional and other
believers group.



Annex 2
Page 15 of 18
The health service delivery system has at present 1212 health stations, 67 health centers and 2
hospitals.
There is low health service coverage (42%) and utilization and uneven distribution of health facilities.
The participation of the private sector and NGOs is low. In the region, there are 3 hospitals, I health center
and 90 health stations operated by NGOs. Similarly, there are 250 clinics of different levels; 638 drug retail
shops and 3 hospitals under construction. The participation of the NGOs and private sector is important,
however, there must be directives issued to facilitate and monitor the work of both to maximize their output
and benefits to the public.
HSDP
Capital Investment:   Birr 353,064,300
Recurrent Investment: Birr 686,581,960
Total: Birr 1,039,646,260
Somali Region
General
The Somali National State is located in the south-eastern part of Ethiopia. As of September 1997, the
population is estimated to be 3,439,860 of which 1,876,996 were males and 1,563, 864 were females. The
percentage share of the males is high. 85.7% of the population resides in the rural areas. The population are
predominantly nomadic pastoralists who are engaged in the rearing of sheep, goats, camels and cattle. They
move from place to place in search of pasture and water. 98.7% of the population are Muslims. There are 9
Administrative Zones and 42 woredas in the region.
Health Care infrastructure is extremely underdeveloped and at present there are 2 zonal hospitals, I
under construction, 2 district hospitals, 11 health centers and 78 health stations. Almost all the health
facilities are functioning poorly due to lack of adequate health workers, shortage of drugs and supplies and
under utilization attributable to difficulty of access. There are only 518 health workers in the region. Thus
the health status of the general population is low, with an estimated health coverage of 25%.
HSDP
Capital Investment:   Birr 140,350,360
Recurrent Investment: Birr 167,710,640
Total: Birr 308,061,000



Annex 2
Page 16 of 18
Benishangul-Gumuz Region
General
Benishangul-Gumuz National Regional State is situated in the north-western corner of Ethiopia. It
has a population of 0.5 million as of July 1997 and male to female ratio of nearly 1:1. It has also an annual
population growth of about 2.6%. The Region is divided into 3 zones, two special woredas, and 17 woredas.
About 98% of the Region is low land. About 91% of the population reside in rural areas. About 44% of the
population is Muslim and the remaining are Christians and others. The economy of the Region depends
mainly on small scale farming. Some of the people live on gold mining and trade. The Region is one of the
most under-developed in the country. Transport and communication system is poor.
There is a very low level of health status with high prevalence of malaria and tuberculosis. There are
only 2 hospitals, 3 health centers and 75 health stations. These health institutions are unevenly distributed.
Access to health services is low and the current health service coverage is estimated at 41%. Therefore, the
challenge to achieve an acceptable level of health development is tremendous.
HSDP
Capital Investment:    Birr 58,015,800
Recurrent Investment:  Birr 94,224,844
Total:  Birr 152,240,644
Southern Nations Nationalities and Peoples' Region
General
The Southern Nations Nationalities and Peoples' Region is located in the south-western part of
Ethiopia. It has an area of about 118,000 sq. kms. with a population of 11.1 million. Over 93% of the
population lives in rural areas. The Region is divided into nine zones and 77 woredas out of which 5 are
special woredas. The economy of the Region is predominately agricultural with about 93.2% of the
population engaged in agricultural activities. In addition, the Region has a large livestock reserve, which
accounts for 20% of Ethiopian's livestock population. The Region is characterized by multi-ethnic groups,
each with its own linguistic and cultural identity. Amharic is used as an official language in the region. The
region has two zones with a pastoral population who migrate seasonally. The existing health infrastructure in
the Region is inadequate and unevenly distributed between zones, woredas, and urban and rural areas.
Presently, there are nine hospitals, 66 health centers, and 404 health stations. In addition, there are 21
pharmacies, 22 drugstores, and 396 rural drug retail shops. Health service coverage in the region is estimated
to be 37%, but it varies by type of activity and by zones. There is also a critical shortage of health workers
combined with poor distribution and lack of appropriate staff mix. HSDP is designed to alleviate the above
mentioned problems and to be a take-off effort to achieve universal provision of basic health services in the
long-term.
HSDP
Capital Investment:   Birr 259,986,990
Recurrent Investment: Birr 396,701,408
Total: Birr 656,688,398



Annex 2
Page 17 of I8
Gambella Region
General
The Gambella People's National Region State (GPNRS) is located in the south-western part of
Ethiopia and it covers an area of 25294 sq. kms. The Region has an estimated population of 200,000. The
Region is divided into two zones and nine woredas.
There are 37 health stations, 2 health centers and 1 hospital. One hospital is under construction. The
health facilities are inaccessible to the rural majority and are poorly distributed. Given the above constraints
the health coverage of the Region is estimated to be 46%.
HSDP
Capital Investment:   Birr 52,466,220
Recurrent Investment: Birr 62,406,080
Total: Birr 114,872,300
Harari Region
General
The Harari National Regional State is located in the south-eastern part of Ethiopia. The total area of
the region is about 304.51 sq. kms. Harari is the capital city of the region. The total population for the year
1997 is estimated to be about 143,584, of which 59.48% are urban and 40.52% are rural dwellers. In the
region there are 19 urban kebeles and 17 farmers' associations. The rural population depends on subsistence
farming and the urban dwellers depend on trade. The remaining portion of the population get their livelihood
as government and non-government employees. Educational level of the region is relatively high. There are
45 schools which include 31 elementary, 12 junior high school, and 2 secondary schools. There are good
service of telecommunication, postal services, and road transport. However, the rural road transportation need
to be improved.
There are 5 hospitals, I health center, 25 health stationlclinics and two community health posts in the
region. The health center is under construction. There are :310 health workers of varied categories. The
health service coverage of the region is estimated to be 62%. However, it is important to note that the
distribution of health facilities is uneven and the quality of services is poor.
HSDP
Capital Investment:   Birr 21,221,053
Recurrent Investment: Birr 51,796,639
Total: Birr 73,017,692



Annex 2
Page 18 of 18
Addis Ababa Region
General
Addis Ababa is the capital city of Federal Government of Ethiopia and Addis Ababa City Local
Government. It has an estimated population of 2.4 million with 48% males and 51% females. It is located in
the center of the of the country and has an area of 540 sq. kms. Addis Ababa is divided into six administrative
zones, 28 woredas and 328 kebeles (smallest administrative unit). Government institutions that provide
public services are also available in each zone at different level of capacities. 86.6% of the population are
Christians and 12.67% Muslims. The economy of the city depends on some large and small factories which
represent 18% of employment, farming in the rural areas, and informal agricultural activities such as dairy and
poultry. It is also a center of commercial activities. Addis Ababa has relatively better access for transport and
communication.
Addis Ababa has 20 hospitals of which 5 are administered by Addis Ababa Health Bureau, 6 by
Ministry of Health, 2 by NGOs, 4 by the private sector and 3 by the Ministry of Defense. The hospitals are
unevenly distributed. There are also 21 health centers (2 small) and 8 clinics under the Health Bureau. There
are 239 private clinics; and 98 factory, NGO and school clinics. There are also 139 retail drug outlets and 33
health posts. The majority of the population gets its health services from primary health care units, despite the
existence of a wide range of health facilities in the city. It is perceived that the primary health care units are
reasonably accessible and affordable. The health facilities in general are underutilized and unevenly
distributed.
HSDP
Capital Investment:   Birr 68,995,000
Recurrent Investment: Birr 231,779,700
Total:              Birr 300,774,700
Dire Dawa Region
General
Dire Dawa administrative region is located in the eastern part of Ethiopia. It has an area of 1977 sq.
kms. The population of the region is estimated to be 277,245 for the year 1997. 69% of the total population
resides in the town and the remaining 31% lives scattered in 30 peasant associations around the town. 66% of
the town population earns its livelihood from trade. On the other hand, the rural population depends for its
livelihood on subsistence farming.
At present, there are 2 hospitals, 1 health center, 6 health stations and 5 health posts. It is perceived
that 56% of the rural population has access to the health stations. Dire Dawa population has access to the
health facilities in the town. There is one health center under construction.
HSDP
Capital Investment:   Birr 46,513,968
Recurrent Investment: Birr 109,281,386
Total: Birr 155,795,354



Annex 3
Page 1 of 17
Health Sector Development Program
Estimated Costs
The total cost authorized for HSDP is Birr 5,002 million of which base costs of Birr 4,497
million have been planned and Birr 505 million have been reserved for contingencies. A comparison of
planned capital and recurrent budgets with authorized allocations by region and for MOH is shown in the
following table.
Table A3.1: Planned Budgets by Region and MOH
Region          Authorized                Planned             Total Planned    Contingency
HSDP Allocation
Capital      Recurrent
Tigray                   346,864,000     70,702,681    241,474,919     312,177,600      34,686,400
Afar                     228,200,000    104,440,077    100,939,923     205,380,000      22,820,000
Amhara                   876,288,000    229,189,765    554,836,698     784,026,463      92,261,537
Oromia                 1,154,692,000    353,064,300    686,581,960    1,039,646,260    115,045,740
Somali                   342,300,000    140,350,360    167,710,640     308,061,000      34,239,000
Benshangul Gumuz         173,432,000     58,015,800     94,224,844     152,240,644      21,191,356
SNNPR                   725,676,000    259,986,990    396,701,408      656,688,398      68,987,602
Gambella                 127,792,000     52,466,220     62,406,080     114,872,300      12,919,700
Harari                    82,152,000     21,221,053     51,796,639      73,017,692       9,134,308
Addis Ababa             333,172,000      68,995,000    231,779,700     300,774,700      32,397,300
Dire Dawa                173,432,000     46,513,968    109,281,386     155,795,354       17,636,646
Center/MOH              438,000,000      74,330,600    319,809,400     394,200,000      43,800,000
Total                  5,002,000,000   1,479,276,814   3,017,603,597    4,496,880,411  505,119,589
Source: HSDP Program Action Plan
The amount of Binr 438 million (8.8 percent) is allocated to the Ministry of Health while the
remaining Birr 4,564 million (91.2 percent) is allocated to the Regions. The allocations to the Regions
have been computed based on the following criteria approved by the Council of People's
Representatives: (a) population size, (b) I-distance, and (c) revenue eaming capacity.
Total planned capital and recurrent budget by component of HSDP are presented in the following
table.
Table A3.2 Planned Budgets by Component
Planned
Component                   Capital    |   Recurrent      Total Planned    Percent
Service delivery and quality of care      260,189,770    2,051,680,436   2,311,870,206    51.4%
Health facility rehabilitation/expansion  1,040,306,505   196,303,762    1,236,610,267    27.5%
Human resource development                 67,759,820      67,945,754      135,705,574     3.0%
Pharmaceutical services                    52,175,819     586,023,828      638,199,647    14.2%
Information/Education/Communication        18,264,425      38,967,316       57,231,741    1.27%
Health sector management/MIS               23,091.200      62,635,565       85,726,765     2.0%
Monitoring and evaluation                  15,942,150       8,712,587       24,654,737     0.5%
Health care financing                       5,999,375       1,482,100        7,481,475    0.16%
Total                                    1,483,729,064   3,013,751,348   4,497,480,412    100.0%
Source: HSDP Program Action Plan



Annex 3
Page 2 of 17
Birr 3,183 million (or 80.8 percent) has been allocated to improving direct health
services; Birr 773 million (or 17.2 percent) to human resources and pharmaceuticals; and Birr
533 million (or 12.1 percent) to support services. Detailed cost tables by region and by
component are presented in Annex 2.
Financing Plan
The total program cost of HSDP will be financed by a combination of internal and
external sources as shown in the following table.
Table A3.3: Indicative Financing Plan
I  1997-98     1998-99    1999/2002     Total
Program costs (million Birr)          776.3     1,033.4     3,192.3     5,002.0
Amount financed (million Birr)
Govemment                            447.0       486.8      1839.7     2,773.5
User fees                             19.6        20.1        63.7       103,4
Extemal aid                          309.7       526.5      1288.9     2,125.1
Financing sources (% of Total)
Govemment                           57.6%       47.1%       57.6%       55.4%
User fees                            2.5%        1.9%        2.0%        2.1%
Extemal aid                         39.9%       51.0%       41.4%       42.5%
Source: HSDP Program Action Plan
The financing plan for HSDP is proposed to cover five year implementation period during which
the Government will be responsible for Birr 2,773.5 million (or 55.4% percent), user fees for Birr 103.4
million (or 2.1 percent), and the remaining Birr 2,125.1 million (or 42.5 percent) would be solicited from
external sources. During the FDRE-donors meeting at Debre Zeit in March, 1997, US$ 323 million was
pledged in support of HSDP.



Annex 3
Page 3 ol 17
Table A.3.1: Total HSDP Cost by Program Component by Year (Birr)
1997/98    1998/1999    1999/2000     2000/2001    2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality    48,442,548    52.274,577    54,995,749    51,268,013    53,743,883  260,724,770    5.80%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  196,203,868   265,829,703   228,702,891   191,454,151   158,115,892   1,040,306.505   23.13%
Human Resource Development     3,456,700    16,199,480    15,817,420    18,730,760    13,555,460   67,759,820    1.51%
Pharmaceutical                 9,000,465    12,204,246    10,824,736    10,770,196  9,376,176      52,175,819    1.16%
Management & MIS                 38,500     7,586,080     8,726,690    4,022,100    2,717,830      23,091,200    0.51%
Info. Education & Communication  411.913    5,538,891     5,564,667    4,960,867    1,788,087      18,264,425    0.41%
Monitoring & Evaluation         156,050     3,814,250     6,587,600    2,832,200    2,552,050      15,942,150    0.35%
Health Care Financing            23,750       439,500      301,375       183,750       63,750       1,012,125    0.02%
Total Capital Costs: 257,733,794   363,886,727   331,521,128   284,222,037   241,913,128   1,479,276,814   32.90%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality   310,706,679   409,070,510   391,733,982   428,583,270   447,985,995   1,988,080,436   44.21%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   19,188,320    37,143,150    40,437,952    46,350,251    53,184,089  196,303,762    4.37%
Human Resource Development     9,822,390    13,274,069    13,752,033    15,393,222    15,704,040  67,945,754    1.51%
Pharmaceutical                75,629,252   108,405,130   141,256,259   154,132,870   169,600,318  649,023,828   14.43%
Management & MIS               8,456,950    12,869,396    13,615,718    13,351,140    14,342,361   62,635,565    1.39%
Info. Education & Communication  2,393,093  8,762,691     9,182,217    9,470,583    9,158,732      38,967,316    0.87%
Monitoring & Evaluation         702,490     2,036,750     2,168,420    1,767,330    2,037,597       8,712,587    0.19%
Health Care Financing          1,171,300    1,653,300     1,152,900    1,176,550      780,300       5,934,350    0.13%
Total Recurrent Costs: 428,070,474   593,214,996   613,299,481   670,225,216   712,793,432   3,017,603,597   67.10%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality   359,149,226   461,345,087   446,729,731   479,851,283   501,729,878   2,248,805,205   50.01%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  215,392,188   302,972,853   269,140,843   237,804,402   211,299,981    1.236,610,267   27.50%
Human Resource Development    13,279,090    29,473,549    29,569,453    34,123,982    29,259,500  135,705,574    3.02%
Pharmaceutical                84,629,717   120,609,376   152,080,995   164,903,066   178,976,494  701,199,647   15.59%
Management & MIS               8,495,450    20,455,476    22,342,408    17,373,240    17,060,191   85,726,765    1.91%
Info. Education & Communication  2,805,006    14,301,582    14,746,884    14,431,450    10,946,819  57,231,741    1.27%
Monitoring & Evaluation         858,540     5,851,000     8,756,020    4,599,530    4,589,647      24,654,737    0.55%
Health Care Financing          1,195,050    2,092,800     1,454,275    1,360,300      844,050       6,946,475    0.15%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs: 685,804,267   957,101,723   944,820,609   954,447,253   954,706,560   4,496,880,411  100.00%



AinCx 3
Page 4 of 17
Table A3.2: HSOP thso Cost by Component by Region (lirr 000). 1997-2002
Tigray     Afar    Amhara   Oromia    Somali  8tGumuz  SNNPR   Gambolla   Hararl Addis Ababa Diro Dawa   MOH             Total
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality      1715.63      0.00  95830.52    6590.80    4,740    5900.30  88620.32   3723.36  3806.34    40320.50    3294.90   6182.10  260724.77
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    56620.55  96643.72 132809.24  203281.50   114.015   44521.80 151121.52  46808.02 15241.82    26493.60   40125.07  32624.50 1040300.51
Fluman Resource Development     5036.30   6188.06     0.00    8255.40    14,321    182.50  15075.00     90.00   791.36       0.00    1275.00  15745.00   67759.82
Pharmaceutical                     0.00      0.00     0.00   44420.00    1,834       0.00    750.00    661.84   394.08       0.00       0.00  4115.90   52175.82
Managemenl & MIS                6085.20    659.90   550.00    4650.20      600    5696.70     37.50    170.00   232.20     800.00     469.00  2940.50   23091.20
Into. Education& Communication   445.00    701.40     0.00    1278.00      930    1714.50   1672.53    542.00   306.40    1180.90     900.00   8593.70   18264.43
Monitoring & Evaluation            0.00    247.00     0.00    4173.40    3,910       0.00   2225.00    471.00   136.85     200.00     450.00  4128.90   15942.15
Health Care Financing              0.00      0.00     0.00     215.00      -         0.00    465.13      0.00   312.00       0.00       0.00      0.00    1012.13
Total Capital Costs:   70702.68 104440.08 229189.77  353064.30   140.350   58015.80 259986.99  52466.22 21221.05    68995.00   46513.97  74330.60 1479276.81
RECURRENT
Service Detivery & Quality    196348.37  99660.42 407973.52  457471.25   136,347   13860.54 223994.14   4527.99  4259.93   179719.70   28359.00 298558.10 2051080.44
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00      -         0.00  61731.50  38233.89 47086.71    3032.20   45329.46    890.00  196303.76
Human Resource Development         0.00      0.00  10079.22   21286.10    3,212    6548.20  16376.34   1767.69    0.00    4832.20    3844.00      0.00   67945.75
Pharmaceutical                 40000.00      0.00 131482.16  195851.10   25.743   23093.30  88952.02  16417.01    0.00    35752.80   27650.68   1081.60  586023.83
Management & MIS                 700.00    487.00   1581.80    622.00      410   47554.80    840.32    505.05   241.80    8442.80     600.00   650.00   62635.57
Into. Educalion & Communication  3055.00    590.00   3720.00    9933.91    1.728    1916.60   1322.86    518.45    43.20     0.00    2600.00  13539.30   38967.32
Monitoting A Evalualion          811.55    202.50     0.00    1083.60      270    1198.30   3484.24    436.00   165.00       0.00     630.00   431.40    8712.59
Healih Care Finandng             560.00      0.00     0.00     334.00      -        53.10      0.00      0.00    0.00        0.W0     268.25  4719.00    5934.35
TolalRecurrentCosts:  241474.92 100939.92 554836.70  666581.96   167.711   94224.84 396701.41  62406.08 51796.64   231779.70  109281.39 319869.40 3017603.60
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality    198064.00  99660.42 503804.04  464062.05   141.087   19760.84 312614.46   8251.35  8066.27   220040.20   31653.89 304740.20 2311805.21
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    56620.55  96643.72 132809.24  283281.50   114,015   44521.80 212853.02  85041.91 62328.54    29525.80   85454.53 33514.50 1236610.27
Human Resource Development      5836.30   6188.06  10079.22   29541.50   17,533    6730.70  31451.34   1857.69   791.36   4832.20    5119.00  15745.00  135705.57
Pharmaceutical                 40000.00      0.00 131482.16  240271.10   27,577   23093.30  89702.02  17078.85   394.08    35752.80   27650.68  5197.50  638199.65
Management& MIS                 6785.20   1146.90   2131.80    5472.20   1.010   53251.50    877.82    675.05   474.00    9242.80    1069.00  3590.50   85726.77
Info. Education & Communication  3500.00   1291.40  3720.00   11211.91   2.658    3631.10   2995.38   1060.45   349.60     1180.90    3500.00 22133.00   57231.74
Monitoring & Evaluation          811.55    449.50     0.00    5257.00    4.180    1198.30   5709.24    907.00   301.85      200.00    1080.00  4560.30   24654.74
Hlealth Care Financing           560.00      0.00     0.00     549.00      -        53.10    485.13      0.00   312.00       0.00     268.25  4719.00    6948.48
Total Capital+ Recutrent Costs:  312177.60 205380.00 784026,46 1039646.26 308061.00  152240.64 656688.40 114872.30 73017.69   300774.70  155795.35 394200.00 4496880.41
Contingency Set by Government    34686.40  22820.00  92261.50  115045.70  34239.00   21191.30  68987.60  12919.70  9134.30    32397.30   17636.60 43800.00  505119.40
Grand Total                 346864.00 228200.00 876287.96 1154691.96 342300.00  173431.94 725676.00 127792.00 82151.99   333172.00  173431.95 438t00.00 5001999.81



Annlex ;3
Page 5 of 17
Table A.3.3.1: Tigray Region HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997198    1998/1999    1999/2000    2000/2001     2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality          -         356,257      430,957      445,457       482,957       1,715,628    0.55%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   18,337,500    17,708,053    10,085,000  5,500,000  4,990,000  56,620,553   18.14%
Human Resource Development      956,700     1,056,200     1,221,000    1,284,800    1,317,600       5,836,300    1.87%
Pharmaceutical                      -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Management & MIS                    -       1,733,680     1,020,990    1,099,000    2,231,530       6,085,200    1.95%
Info. Education & Communication     -         445,000          -            -             -          445,000    0.14%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Health Care Financing               -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital Costs:  19,294,200    21,299,190    12,757,947  8,329,257  9,022,087     70,702,681   22.65%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality    28,895,823    37,779,004    20,664,608    22,110,919    23,898,018  133,348,372   42.72%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  -           -             --                         -              -      0.00%
Human Resource Development          -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Pharmaceutical                 7,686,000    7,891,000    28,645,000    29,145,000    29,633,000   103,000,000   32.99%
Management & MIS                    -         200,000      300,000          -         200,000        700,000    0.22%
Info. Education & Communication  119,800      750,113      728,362      728,363       728,362       3,055,000    0.98%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -         280,000      140,000       175,000      216,547        811,547    0.26%
Health Care Financing               -         330,000      200,000       30,000           -          560,000    0.18%
Total Recurrent Costs:  36,701,623    47,230,117    50,677,970    52,189,282    54,675,927  241,474,919   77.35%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality    28,895,823    38,135,261    21,095,565    22,556,376    24,380,975  135,064,000   43.27%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   18,337,500    17,708,053    10,085,000  5,500,000  4,990,000  56,620,553   18.14%
Human Resource Development      956,700     1,056,200     1,221,000    1,284,800    1,317,600      5,836,300    1.87%
Pharmaceutical                 7,686,000    7,891,000    28,645,000    29,145,000    29,633,000   103,000,000   32.99%
Management & MIS                    -       1,933,680     1,320,990    1,099,000    2,431,530       6,785,200    2.17%
Info. Education & Communication  119,800    1,195,113      728,362       728,363      728,362      3,500,000    1.12%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -         280,000      140,000       175,000      216,547        811,547    0.26%
Health Care Financing               -         330,000      200,000        30,000          -          560,000    0.18%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs:  55,995,823    68,529,307    63,435,917    60,518,539    63,698,014  312,177,600  100.00%



Annex 3
Page 6 of 17
Table A.3.3.2: Afar Region HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997/98    1998/1999     1999/2000    2000/2001     2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality           -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    8,211,830    18,932,797    21,133,873    23,207,776    25,157,441  96,643,717   47.06%
Human Resource Development           -       1,475,620     1,414,840    1,588,760     1,708,840      6,188,060    3.01%
Pharmaceutical                       -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Management & MIS                     -        284,600        71,800       158,100      145,400        659,900    0.32%
Info. Education & Communication      -        204,640       176,080      214,980       105,700        701,400    0.34%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -         226,000        21,000          -             -          247,000    0.12%
Health Care Financing               -             -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital Costs:   8,211,830    21,123,657    22,817,593    25,169,616    27,117,381  104,440,077   50.85%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality     6,656,742    40,781,257    21,157,983    22,398,983    8,665,458     99,660,423   48.52%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Human Resource Development           -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Pharmaceutical                       -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Management & MIS                     -         91,000       104,000       121,000      171,000        487,000    0.24%
Info. Education & Communication     -         105,750       129,000       159,250      196,000        590,000    0.29%
Monitoring & Evaluation              -         43,500        47,000        53,000       59,000        202,500    0.10%
Health Care Financing                -                          -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Recurrent Costs:   6,656,742    41,021,507    21,437,983    22,732,233  9,091,458   100,939,923   49.15%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality     6,656,742    40,781,257    21,157,983    22,398,983    8,665.458     99,660,423   48.52%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    8,211,830    18,932,797    21,133,873    23,207,776    25,157,441  96,643,717   47.06%
Human Resource Development           -       1,475,620     1,414,840    1,588,760     1,708,840      6,188.060    3.01%
Pharmaceutical                       -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Management & MIS                     -        375,600       175,800       279,100      316,400       1,146,900    0.56%
Info. Education & Communication      -        310,390       305,080       374,230      301,700       1,291,400    0.63%
Monitoring & Evaluation              -        269,500        68,000        53,000       59,000         449.500    0.22%
Health Care Financing                -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs:  14,868,572    62,145,164    44,255,576    47,901,849    36,208,839  205,380,000  100.00%



Anncx 3
Page 7 of 17
Table A.3.3.3: Amhara Region HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997/98    1998/1999    1999/2000     2000/2001    2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality    12,355,190    17,141,647    20,349,243    22,311,318    23,673,123   95,830,521   12.22%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   41,499,429    18,604,565    23,147,750    25,584,000    23,973,500  132,809,244   16.94%
Human Resource Development          -             -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Pharmaceutical                      -             -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Management & MIS                    -         308,000      242,000          -             -          550,000    0.07%
Info. Education & Communication     -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Health Care Financing               -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital Costs:   53,854,619    36,054,212    43,738,993    47,895,318    47,646,623  229,189,765   29.23%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality    64,719,406    77,145,676    83,141,986    89,874,645    93,091,802  407,973,515   52.04%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  -            -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Human Resource Development     1,729,958    1,959,403     1,989,313    2,324,818     2,075,731     10,079,223    1.29%
Pharmaceutical                21,573,266    25,171,857    26,267,774    27,734,318    30,734,947  131,482,161   16.77%
Management & MIS                118,395       361,201      446,800       371,801      283,603       1,581,800    0.20%
Info. Education & Communication  22,000       837,000     1,352,000      762,000      747,000       3,720,000    0.47%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -             -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Health Care Financing               -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Recurrent Costs:   88,163,025   105,475,137   113,197,873   121,067,582   126,933,083  554,836,698   70.77%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality    77,074,595    94,287,323   103,491,229   112,185,963   116,764,925  503,804,035   64.26%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   41,499,429    18,604,565    23,147,750    25,584,000    23,973,500  132,809,244   16.94%
Human Resource Development     1,729,958    1,959,403     1,989,313    2,324,818    2,075,731      10,079,223    1.29%
Pharmaceutical                21,573,266    25,171,857    26,267,774    27,734,318    30,734,947  131,482,161   16.77%
Management & MIS                118,395       669,201      688,800       371,801      283,603       2,131,800    0.27%
Info. Education & Communication  22,000       837,000     1,352,000      762,000      747,000       3,720,000    0.47%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -             -            -             -            -              -      0.00%
Health Care Financing               -             -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs:  142,017,643   141,529,349   156,936,866   168,962,900   174,579,706  784,026,463  100.00%



Anniex 3
Page 8 of 17
Table A.3.3.4: Oromia Region HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997/98    1998/1999    1999/2000    200012001    2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality     898,900     1,179,500    1,317,800    1,545,300    1,649,300      6,590,800    0.63%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  46,662,300    63,683,500    71,888,500    54,015,200    47,032,000  283,281,500   27.25%
Human Resource Development         -       1,343,200    2,342,900    2,696,200    1,873,100      8,255,400    0.79%
Pharmaceutical                8,724,000    9,624,000    9,624,000    8,724,000    7,724,000     44,420,000    4.27%
Management & MIS                   -       1,470,200    2,181,900    1,198,100          -        4,850,200    0.47%
Info. Education & Communication    -            -       1,258,000       20,000          -        1,278,000    0.12%
Monitoring & Evaluation            -        434,000     3,401,900      225,000      112,500      4,173,400    0.40%
Health Care Financing              -         120,000       95,000         -            -           215,000    0.02%
Total Capital Costs:  56,285,200    77,854,400    92,110,000    68,423,800    58,390,900  353,064,300   33.96%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality   73,911,200    87,775,800    91,954,600    96,974,850   106,854,800  457.471,250   44.00%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  -          -            -            -             -              -     0.00%
Human Resource Development    3,199,300    4,487,800    4,519,200    4,532,400    4,547,400     21,286,100    2.05%
Pharmaceutical               24,573,000    35,863,500   ,41,583,600    45,396,800    48,434,200  195,851,100   18.84%
Management & MIS                150,000      417,200       18,800       17,200       18,800        622,000    0.06%
Info. Education & Communication  469,000   2,758,230    2,333,720    2,554,230    1,818,730      9,933,910    0.96%
Monitoring & Evaluation        230,000        88,000      288,700      113,200      363,700      1,083,600    0.10%
Health Care Financing              -         61,000        72,000       96,000      105,000        334,000    0.03%
Total Recurrent Costs: 102,532,500   131,451,530   140,770,620   149,684,680   162,142,630  686,581,960   66.04%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality   74,810,100    88,955,300    93,272,400    98,520,150   108,504,100  464,062,050   44.64%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  46,662,300    63,683,500    71,888,500    54,015,200    47,032,000  283,281,500   27.25%
Human Resource Development    3,199,300    5,831,000    6,862,100    7,228,600    6,420,500     29,541,500    2.84%
Pharmaceutical               33,297,000    45,487,500    51,207,600    54,120,800    56,158,200  240,271,100   23.11%
Management & MIS                150,000    1,887,400    2,200,700     1,215,300      18,800      5,472,200    0.53%
Info. Education & Communication  469,000   2,758,230    3,591,720    2,574,230     1,818,730    11,211,910    1.08%
Monitoring & Evaluation        230,000       522,000    3,690,600      338,200      476,200      5,257,000    0.51%
Health Care Financing              -         181,000      167,000       96,000      105,000        549,000    0.05%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs: 158,817,700   209,305,930   232,880,620   218,108,480   220,533,530   1,039,646,260  100.00%



Annex 3
Page 9 of 17
Table A.3.3.5: Somali Region HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997/98    199811999    1999/2000     2000/2001    2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality      270,000     2,320,000      800,000      450,000       900,000      4,740,000    1.54%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   12,967,900    39,129,517    17,508,492    20,010,801    24,398,450  114,015,160   37.01%
Human Resource Development          -       3,038,000    3,840,300     3,535,300    3,907,600     14,321,200    4.65%
Pharmaceutical                      -         703,500      238,500      329,000       563,000      1,834,000    0.60%
Management & MIS                    -         300,000          -        300,000           -          600,000    0.19%
Info. Education & Communication     -         100,000      180,000      650,000           -          930,000    0.30%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -       1,360,000      600,000     1,100,000      850,000      3,910,000    1.27%
Health Care Financing               -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital Costs:  13,237,900    46,951,017    23,167,292    26,375,101    30,619,050  140,350,360   45.56%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality     7,951,226    16,433,900    23,314,401    37,785,908    50,862,045  136,347,480   44.26%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  -           -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Human Resource Development          -         720,000      825,000      801,000       866,000      3,212,000    1.04%
Pharmaceutical                 1,732,000    4,625,890     5,879,780    6,283,890    7,221,600     25,743,160    8.36%
Management & MIS                    -          40,000      160,000       130,000       80,000        410,000    0.13%
Info. Education & Communication     -         380,000      553,000      448,000       347,000      1,728,000    0.56%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -         115,000       50,000       52,000        53,000        270,000    0.09%
Health Care Financing               -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Recurrent Costs:   9,683,226    22,314,790    30,782,181    45,500,798    59,429,645  167,710,640   54.44%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality     8,221,226    18,753,900    24,114,401    38,235,908    51,762,045  141,087,480   45.80%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   12,967,900    39,129,517    17,508,492    20,010,801    24,398,450  114,015,160   37.01%
Human Resource Development          -       3,758,000    4,665,300     4,336,300    4,773,600     17,533,200    5.69%
Pharmaceutical                 1,732,000    5,329,390     6,118,280    6,612,890    7,784,600     27,577,160    8.95%
Management & MIS                    -         340,000      160,000      430,000        80,000      1,010,000    0.33%
Info. Education & Communication     -         480,000      733,000     1,098,000      347,000      2,658,000    0.86%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -       1,475,000      650,000     1,152,000      903,000      4,180,000    1.36%
Health Care Financing               -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs:  22,921,126    69,265,807    53,949,473    71,875,899    90,048,695  308,061,000  100.00%



Annex 13
Page 10 of 17
Table A.3.3.6: B/Gumuz Region HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997/98    1998/1999    1999/2000   - 2000/2001   2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality    2,664,400      801,900      806,100      811,900      816,000      5,900,300    3.88%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   1,607,900    20,442,200    10,149,500  6.016,100  6,306,100  44,521,800   29.24%
Human Resource Development         -         43,500        32,500       56,500       50,000        182,500    0.12%
Pharmaceutical                                  -            -            -             -             -      0.00%
Management & MIS                   -       2,030,000    3,267,700      381,000       18,000      5,696,700    3.74%
Info. Education & Communication  95,200    1,070,000      198,500      350,800          -        1,714,500    1.13%
Monitoring & Evaluation            -            -            -            -             -              -     0.00%
Health Care Financing              -            -            -            -             -              -     0.00%
Total Capital Costs:   4,367,500    24,387,600    14,454,300  7,616,300  7,190,100   58,015,800   38.11%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality    3,012,400    3,506,300        3,644    3,590,700    3,747,500     13,860,544    9.10%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  -          -            -            -             -             -      0.00%
Human Resource Development    1,151,000    1,363,000    1,295,900    1,281,400    1,456,900      6,548,200    4.30%
Pharmaceutical                2,371,300    4,764,200    5,044,000    5,314,000    5,599,800     23,093,300   15.17%
Management & MIS              6,492,000    9,176,900    10,185,900    10,530,000    11,170,000  47,554,800   31.24%
Info. Education & Communication  200,100     430.600      451,600      629,800      204,500      1,916,600    1.26%
Monitoring & Evaluation        228,000       309,000      236,100      246,200      179,000      1,198,300    0.79%
Health Care Financing            2,300        22,300       10,900       12,300        5,300         53,100    0.03%
Total Recurrent Costs:  13,457,100    19,572,300    17,228,044    21,604,400    22,363,000  94,224,844   61.89%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality    5,676,800    4,308,200      809,744    4,402,600    4,563,500     19,760,844   12.98%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   1,607,900    20,442,200    10,149,500  6,016,100  6,306,100  44,521,800   29.24%
Human Resource Development    1,151,000    1,406,500    1,328,400    1,337,900     1,506,900     6,730,700    4.42%
Pharmaceutical                2,371,300    4,764,200    5,044,000    5,314,000    5,599,800     23,093,300   15.17%
Management& MIS               6,492,000    11,206,900    13,453,600    10,911,000    11,188,000  53,251,500   34.98%
Info. Education & Communication  295,300   1,500,600      650,100      980,600      204,500      3,631,100    2.39%
Monitoring & Evaluation        228,000       309.000      236,100      246,200      179,000      1,198,300    0.79%
Health Care Financing            2,300        22,300       10,900       12,300        5,300         53,100    0.03%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs:  17,824,600    43,959,900    31,682,344    29,220,700    29,553,100  152,240,644  100.00%



Annlex 3
Page 11 of 17
Table A.3.3.7: SNNPR HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997/98    199811999     1999/2000    2000/2001     2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality    13,177,458    19,900,460    21,288,285    16,737,267    17,516,854   88,620,324   13.50%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   41,958,255    34,912,450    28,898,250    27,673,210    17,679,351  151,121,516   23.01%
Human Resource Development     2,500,000     5,327,000    1,577,000     5,111,000      560,000      15,075,000    2.30%
Pharmaceutical                    50,000      125,000       125,000      225,000       225,000        750,000    0.11%
Management & MIS                   7,500        7,500         7,500        7,500         7,500         37,500    0.01%
Info. Education & Communication  174,713      275,951       407,287      407,287       407,287       1,672,525    0.25%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -         361,000       521,250      521,250       821,500       2,225,000    0.34%
Health Care Financing             23,750      225,000       108,875      101,250        26,250        485,125    0.07%
Total Capital Costs:  57,891,676    61,134,361    52,933,447    50,783,764    37,243,742  259,986,990   39.59%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality    43,124,471    44,609,024    45,010,867    45,393,581    45,856,195   223,994,138   34.11%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  -       9,982,000    13,919,750    16,673,250    21,156,500   61,731,500    9.40%
Human Resource Development     2,203,262     2,370,306    2,773,930     4,212,614    4,816,229      16,376,341    2.49%
Pharmaceutical                 8,135,202    14,436,699    16,802,713    21,816,266    27,761,138    88,952,018   13.55%
Management & MIS                  81,665      150,385       171,895      195,185       241,185        840,315    0.13%
Info. Education & Communication  116,973      301,478       301,465      301,470       301,470       1,322,856    0.20%
Monitoring & Evaluation           48,000      798,560       951,060      803,560       883,060       3,484,240    0.53%
Health Care Financing               -             -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Recurrent Costs:  53,709,573    72,648,452    79,931,680    89,395,926   101,015,777  396,701,408   60.41%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality    56,301,929    64,509,484    66,299,152    62,130,848    63,373,049   312,614,462   47.60%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   41,958,255    44,894,450    42,818,000    44,346,460    38,835,851  212,853,016   32.41%
Human Resource Development     4,703,262     7,697,306    4,350,930     9,323,614    5,376,229      31,451,341    4.79%
Pharmaceutical                 8,185,202    14,561,699    16,927,713    22,041,266    27,986,138    89,702,018   13.66%
Management & MIS                  89,165      157,885       179,395      202,685       248,685        877,815    0.13%
Info. Education & Communication  291,686      577,429       708,752      708,757       708,757       2,995,381    0.46%
Monitoring & Evaluation           48,000     1,159,560    1,472,310     1,324,810    1,704,560       5,709,240    0.87%
Health Care Financing             23,750      225,000       108,875      101,250        26,250        485,125    0.07%
TotalCapital+RecurrentCosts: 111,601,249   133,782,813   132,865,127   140,179,690   138,259,519  656,688,398  100.00%



Annecx  3
Page 12 of 17
Table A.3.3.8: Gambella Region HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997/98    1998/1999     1999/2000    2000/2001     200112002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality      625,400       973,280       865,400      648,880       610,400       3,723,360    3.24%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   15,984,840    12,018,610  9,962,030  7,098,540  1,744,000     46,808,020   40.75%
Human Resource Development          -          90,000          -             -             -           90,000    0.08%
Pharmaceutical                     1,670      652,250         2,340        2,700         2,880        661,840    0.58%
Management & MIS                   1,000      142,000        27,000          -             -           170,000    0.15%
Info. Education & Communication   32,000      200,000       270,000       20,000        20,000        542,000    0.47%
Monitoring & Evaluation            3,500      127,000       281,000       59,500           -          471,000    0.41%
Health Care Financing               -             -            -             -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital Costs:   16,648,410    14,203,140    11,407,770  7,829,620  2,377,280      52,466,220   45.67%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality      810,910       942,420       998,350      945,820       830,490       4,527,990    3.94%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    5,399,780  7,993,510  8,373,350  8,266,730    8,200,520      38,233,890   33.28%
Human Resource Development       53,870       763,560       542,790      280,890       126,580       1,767.690    1.54%
Pharmaceutical                 1,490,540     3,628,100    3,647,930     3,758,100    3,892,340      16,417,010   14.29%
Management & MIS                  39,790      202,310        78,090       57,520       127,340        505,050    0.44%
Info. Education & Communication   80,120       88,620       115,570      116,570       117,570        518,450    0.45%
Monitoring & Evaluation           73,490       89,190       136,060       71,870        65,390        436,000    0.38%
Health Care Financing                -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Recurrent Costs:    7,948,500    13,707,710    13,892,140    13,497,500    13,360,230  62,406,080   54,33%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality     1,436,310     1,915,700    1,863,750     1,594,700     1,440,890      8,251,350    7.18%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   21,384,620    20,012,120    18,335,380    15,365,270  9,944,520  85,041,910   74.03%
Human Resource Development        53,870      853,560       542,790      280,890       126,580       1,857,690    1.62%
Pharmaceutical                 1,492,210     4,280,350    3,650,270     3,760,800    3,895,220      17,078,850   14.87%
Management & MIS                  40,790      344,310       105,090       57,520       127,340        675,050    0.59%
Info. Education & Communication  112,120      288,620       385,570       136,570      137,570       1,060,450    0.92%
Monitoring & Evaluation           76,990      216,190       417,060       131,370       65,390        907,000    0.79%
Health Care Financing                -            -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs:   24,596,910    27,910,850    25,299,910    21,327,120    15,737,510  114,872,300  100.00%



Anniex 3
Page 13 of 17
Table A.3.3.9: Harari Region HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997/98    199811999     199912000    2000/2001     2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality      561,500       955,654       763,340      793,623       732,225       3,806,342    5.21%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    3,321,611  4,700,000  4,200,161  1,950,000    1,070,050      15,241,822   20.87%
Human Resource Development          -         133,960       195,880      258,200       203,320        791,360    1.08%
Pharmaceutical                    23,795      107,196       109,496       80,096        73,496        394,079    0.54%
Management & MIS                    -             -          77,400       77,400        77,400        232,200    0.32%
Info. Education & Communication   10,000      160,700        66,000       52,700        17,000        306,400    0.42%
Monitoring & Evaluation            9,450       34,150        67,150        9,450        16,650        136,850    0.19%
Health Care Financing               -          94,500        97,500       82,500        37,500        312,000    0.43%
Total Capital Costs:    3,926,356  6,186,160   5,576,927     3,303,969    2,227,641      21,221,053   29.06%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality      623,992       793,782       915,550      909,926     1,016,676      4,259,926    0.09%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    6,746,654    10,412,500  9,008,131  9,900,671    11,018,757  47,086,713   64.49%
Human Resource Development                 -                    -            -             -              -      0.00%
Pharmaceutical                      -             -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Management & MIS                  48,400       48,400        48,333       48,334        48,333        241,800    0.33%
Info. Education & Communication     -          10,800        10,800       10,800        10,800         43,200    0.06%
Monitoring & Evaluation           18,000       43,500        34,500       34,500        34,500        165,000    0.23%
Health Care Financing               -             -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
TotalRecurrentCosts:    7,437,046    11,308,982    10,017,314    10,904,231    12,129,066  51,796,639   70.94%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality     1,185,492     1,749,436    1,678,890     1,703,549    1,748,901       8,066,268   11.05%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   10,068,265    15,112,500    13,208,292    11,850,671    12,088,807  62,328,535   85.36%
Human Resource Development          -         133,960       195,880      258,200       203,320        791,360    1.08%
Pharmaceutical                    23,795      107,196       109,496       80,096        73,496        394,079    0.54%
Management & MIS                  48,400       48,400       125,733      125,734       125,733        474,000    0.65%
Info. Education & Communication   10,000      171,500        76,800       63,500        27,800        349,600    0.48%
Monitoring & Evaluation           27,450       77,650       101,650       43,950        51,150        301,850    0.41%
Health Care Financing               -          94,500        97,500       82,500        37,500        312,000    0.43%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs:   11,363,402    17,495,142    15,594,241    14,208,200    14,356,707  73,017,692  100.00%



Annlex 3
Page 14 of 17
Table A.3.3.10: Addis Ababa HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997/98    199811999    1999/2000    200012001    200112002           Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality   17,571,900     5,252,900    5,917,200    5,675,100    5,903,400     40,320,500   13.41%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation   4,628,500    10,432,100  5,511,000  4,211,000  1,711,000   26,493,600    8.81%
Human Resource Development          -            -            -            -             -              -     0.00%
Pharmaceutical                      -            -            -            -                            -     o.oo%
Management & MIS                    -            -        800,000          -             -          800,000    0.27%
Info. Education & Communication    -         170,200      670,300      170,200       170,200      1,180,900    0.39%
Monitoring & Evaluation            -          50,000       50,000       50,000        50,000        200,000    0.07%
Health Care Financing              -             -            -            -             -              -     0.00%
Total Capital Costs:  22,200,400    15,905,200    12,948,500    10,106,300  7,834,600  68,995,000   22.94%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality   31,329,300    34,448,700    36,604,300    38,122,000    39,215,400  179,719,700   59.75%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  574,200  597,000     609,000       620,000      632,000      3,032,200    1.01%
Human Resource Development    1,232,000      885,000      893,900       906,100      915,200      4,832,200    1.61%
Pharmaceutical                6,479,000     6,997,800    7,207,000    7,423,000    7,646,000     35,752,800   11.89%
Management & MIS              1,526,700     1,631,400    1,671,300    1,761,300     1,852,100     8,442,800    2.81%
Info. Education & Communication     -            -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -            -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Health Care Financing               -            -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Recurrent Costs:  41,141,200    44,559,900    46,985,500    48,832,400    50,260,700  231,779,700   77.06%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality   48,901,200    39,701,600    42,521,500    43,797,100    45,118,800  220,040,200   73.16%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    5,202,700    11,029,100  6,120,000  4,831,000  2,343,000  29,525,800    9.82%
Human Resource Development    1,232,000      885,000      893,900       906,100      915,200      4,832,200    1.61%
Pharmaceutical                6,479,000     6,997,800    7,207,000    7,423,000    7,646,000     35,752,800   11.89%
Management & MIS               1,526,700    1,631,400    2,471,300    1,761,300     1,852,100      9,242,800    3.07%
Info. Education & Communication     -        170,200      670,300       170,200      170,200       1,180,900    0.39%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -         50,000        50,000       50,000       50,000        200,000    0.07%
Health Care Financing               -            -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs:  63,341,600    60,465,100    59,934,000    58,938,700    58,095,300  300,774,700  100.00%



Anincx 3
Page 15 of 17
Table A.3.3.11: Dire Dawa HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997/98    1998/1999     1999/2000    2000/2001     2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality       200,000      618,979       773,724      928,468       773,724       3,294,895    2.11%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    1,023,803    14,249,411    15,997,335  8,538,524  316,000    40,125,073   25.75%
Human Resource Development           -        300,000       300,000      300,000       375,000       1,275,000    0.82%
Pharmaceutical                                    -             -            - -                          -      0.00%
Management & MIS                    -         117,500       117,500      117,000       117,000        469,000    0.30%
Info. Education & Communication  100,000      200,000       250,000      250,000       100,000        900,000    0.58%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -         125,000       200,000      125,000           -          450,000    0.29%
Health Care Financing               -             -             -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital Costs:   1,323,803    15,610,890    17,638,559    10,258,992  1,681,724   46,513,968   29.86%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality     3,218,209     5,109,947    6,064,493     7,028,538    6,937,811      28,358.998   18.20%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    6,467,686  7,957,140  8,291,721    10,662,600    11,950,312  45,329,459   29.10%
Human Resource Development       253,000      725,000       912,000     1,054,000      900.000       3,844,000    2.47%
Pharmaceutical                 1,579,344     4,819,284    5,936,462     6,979,496    8,336,093      27,650,679   17.75%
Management & MIS                    -         250,000       200,000          -         150,000        600,000    0.39%
Info. Education & Communication  100,000      625,000       625,000      625,000       625,000       2,600,000    1.67%
Monitoring & Evaluation             -         160,000       175,000      165,000       130,000        630,000    0.40%
Health Care Financing               -         150,000       100,000       18,250           -          268,250    0.17%
Total Recurrent Costs:  11,618,239    19,796,371    22,304,676    26,532,884    29,029,216  109,281,386   70.14%
TOTALS
ServiceDelivery&Quality        3,418,209     5,728,926    6,838,217     7,957,006    7,711,535      31,653,893   20.32%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation    7,491,489    22,206,551    24,289,056    19,201,124    12,266,312  85,454,532   54.85%
Human Resource Development       253,000     1,025,000    1.212,000     1,354,000    1,275,000       5,119,000    3.29%
Pharmaceutical                 1,579,344     4,819,284    5,936,462     6,979,496    8,336,093      27,650,679   17.75%
Management& MIS                     -         367,500       317,500      117,000       267,000       1,069,000    0.69%
Info. Education & Communication  200,000      825,000       875,000      875,000       725,000       3,500,000    2.25%
Monitoring & Evaluation              -        285,000       375,000      290,000       130,000       1,080,000    0.69%
Health Care Financing                -        150,000       100,000       18,250           -          268,250    0.17%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs:  12,942,042    35,407,261    39,943,235    36,791,876    30,710,940  155,795,354  100.00%



Aniiicx 3
Page 16 of 17
Table A.3.3.12: MOH HSDP Cost Summary (Birr)
1997198    1998/1999    199912000     200012001    2001/2002          Total   Share
CAPITAL
Service Delivery & Quality      117,800     2,774,000     1,683,700      920,700      685,900       6,182,100    1.57%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  -     11,016,500    10,221,0D0    7,649,000    3,738,000      32,624,500    8.28%
Human Resource Development          -       3,392,000     4,893,000    3,900,000    3,560,000      15,745,000    3.99%
Pharmaceutical                  201,000       992,300      725,400     1,409,400      787,800       4,115,900    1.04%
Management & MIS                 30,000     1,192,600      912,900       684,000      121,000       2,940,500    0.75%
Info. Education & Communication     -       2,712,400     2,088,500    2,824,900      967,900       8,593,700    2.18%
Monitoring & Evaluation         143,100     1,097,100     1,445,300      742,000      701,400       4,128,900    1.05%
Health Care Financing               -             -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Total Capital Costs:    491,900    23,176,900    21,969,800    18,130,000    10,562,000  74,330,600   18.86%
RECURRENT
Service Delivery & Quality    46,453,000    59,744,700    61,903,200    63,447,400    67,009,800  298,558,100   75.74%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  -        201,000      236,000       227,000      226,000        890,000    0.23%
Human Resource Development          -             -            -            -             -              -      0.00%
Pharmaceutical                    9,600       206,800      242,000      282,000       341,200       1,081,600    0.27%
Management & MIS                    -         300,600      230,600       118,800          -          650,000    0.16%
Info. Education & Communication  1,285,100  2,475,100     2,581,700    3,135,100    4,062,300      13,539,300    3.43%
Monitoring & Evaluation         105,000       110,000      110,000        53,000       53,400        431,400    0.11%
Health Care Financing          1,169,000    1,090,000      770,000     1,020,000      670,000       4,719,000    1.20%
Total Recurrent Costs:  49,021,700    64,128,200    66,073,500    68,283,300    72,362,700  319,869,400   81.14%
TOTALS
Service Delivery & Quality    46,570,800    62,518,700    63,586,900    64,368,100    67,695,700  304,740,200   77.31%
Facility Expansion & Rehabilitation  -     11,217,500    10,457,000    7,876,000    3,964,000      33,514,500    8.50%
Human Resource Development          -       3,392,000     4,893,000    3,900,000     3,560,000     15,745,000    3.99%
Pharmaceutical                  210,600     1,199,100      967,400     1,691,400     1,129,000      5,197,500    1.32%
Management & MIS                 30,000     1,493,200     1,143,500      802,800      121,000       3,590,500    0.91%
Info. Education & Communication  1,285,100  5,187,500     4,670,200    5,960,000     5,030,200     22,133,000    5.61%
Monitoring & Evaluation         248,100     1,207,100     1,555,300      795,000      754,800       4,560,300    1.16%
Health Care Financing          1,169,000    1,090,000      770,000     1,020,000      670,000       4,719,000    1.20%
Total Capital + Recurrent Costs:  49,513,600    87,305,100    88,043,300    86,413,300    82,924,700  394,200,000  100.00%



Annex 3
Page 17 of 17
A3.4 HSDP Physical Targets (1997-2002)
Civil works                                                         1997-2002
New construction
PHCU                                                            216
District hosp. (DH)                                               12
Zonal hospital (ZH)                                                5
Specialised hospital                                               2
Regional laboratory                                               4
Other buildings (drug stores, administrative offices, training schools)  58
Renovation
PHCU                                                            150
District hosp. (DH)                                              50
Zonal hospital (ZH)                                               10
Specialised hospital                                               5
Clinic                                                             5
Training School                                                    5
Additional Staffing Requirements
Tigray                                                          860
Afar                                                            728
Amhara                                                         1,081
Oromia                                                         2,250
Somali                                                         1,108
Benshan/Gumuz                                                   543
SNNPR                                                           773
Gambella                                                        294
Harari                                                          489
Addis Ababa                                                    1,122
Dire Dawa                                                       147
MOH                                                             184
Total                                                          9,569



Annex 4
Page 1 of 20
Health Sector Development Program
Economic Analysis
The Government of Ethiopia launched the Health Sector Development Program in July
1997, based on a 20 year vision, with detailed planning for the first five years. The program
adopts a new approach to donor-government relations with important implications for health
sector financing. Donor funding will be coordinated within a sector wide framework. This is a
departure from the former practice of donor-funded projects that operate in isolation from the
wider health system. As a result, the Federal Government of Ethiopia in collaboration with
donors and other stakeholders such as the private sector and communities can develop plans
based on all available funding, and thus focus on the coherence and financial sustainability of the
health sector as a whole.
The economic analysis considers the costs of the HSDP and its likely impact in relation
to improvements in access to health services of good quality, and ultimately health status. The
analysis does the following:
* Examines the links between the HSDP and the World Bank' s country assistance
strategy and other sector work and assesses whether or not the proposed program
has an appropriate sector policy framework
* Provides a summary of the macroeconomic situation and trends in health sector
financing
+ Ascertains whether implied expenditures are realistic given available funds and
other constraints
* Examines the likely benefits of HSDP and its impact on demand for health
services
* Assesses the constraints and risks in the sustainability of the HSDP
Links to the Country Assistance Strategy
The most recent Country Assistance Strategy for Ethiopia (No. 17009-ET dated August
19, 1997) aims to improve Ethiopia's human capital and provide direct and immediate benefits to
the poor. Ethiopia's long term development is jeopardized by its poor social indicators; it has
some of the poorest health indicators in the world such as a heavy disease burden, high mortality
rates and malnutrition rates (60 percent stunting rate, reflecting chronic undernutrition in young
children), and high total fertility rates with very low contraceptive use. Thus there is a need to
focus on increasing access to and quality of health services. The CAS supports the HSDP's
development objectives and targets. It calls for increasing primary health care coverage to 70%
by 2002;  reducing child malnutrition from  60%  to 30%  by 2004, and increasing the
contraceptive prevalence rate from 7 percent to 15-20 percent by 2004 (the Government's target
at the time of CAS completion).
Links to Sector Work
The Ethiopia Social Sector Note (No. 16860-ET dated February 27, 1998) recommends
that increased access and quality should be the main objectives for the health sector in Ethiopia.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 20
In particular, it suggests an increase in the number of facilities within reasonable distance of
households, especially those in underserved areas. At the same time, it underscores the
importance of supporting expansion efforts with quality improvements such as equipment, drugs
and well trained personnel. It also calls for the shifting of Government spending towards disease
prevention and other basic programs, resulting in increased access to a minimum set of cost-
effective health services with the greatest impact on the disease burden. The importance of
engaging the private sector in service delivery together with other ways of increasing cost
recovery is also emphasized. These issues were considered in finalizing the HSDP plans of the
regions and the MOH.
Rationale for Public Intervention and Finance
The theory of health markets and market failure is well documented. The key features
that lead to an inefficient supply of health services by private health providers include:
*  low access to basic health services for large sections of the population
*  high levels of poverty
*  the existence of public goods such as clean air and water
* high negative externalities associated with many of the major health problems in
Ethiopia such as largely preventable communicable diseases
*  imperfect information  associated with the nature of health problems, and
exacerbated by the generally low level of health in Ethiopia.
In Ethiopia the consequence of market failure is that essential health services, both
preventive and curative are not delivered to all those who require them. Demand and willingness
to pay for preventive services tends to be low, with little potential for cost-recovery. Services
such as immunization and ante-natal care are thus under-provided by the private sector. Given
the importance of such services in Ethiopia, government intervention through either direct
provision or financial subsidies to private providers is required to ensure that all those requiring
them receive them. Findings of a community survey indicate that willingness to pay for curative
health services is generally higher than general willingness to pay for education services though
ability to pay is clearly limited for a significant portion of the population. For these reasons
there is a clear rationale for government and other nonlprofit providers to intervene in the health
market to ensure adequate provision of health services.
The Government is clearly in the driver's seat in preparing and implementing the HSDP
which is sector-wide in scope. While there is a clear need for public intervention and finance,
other stakeholders are also expected to play vital roles in the implementation of the HSDP in
order to ensure its sustainability. While the government is expected to lead the HSDP and to
finance about 55.4 percent of overall HSDP activities, it will be working in partnership with the
donors, the private sector, and communities. Donors are willing to provide technical assistance
and funding for certain components. The private sector, while smaller in size than the
government sector, is important as a current provider oiF services. The PHRD studies found that
the majority of hospitals (91%), health centers (93 %)and clinics (70%) are run by the public
sector. This is probably because of the higher level of "investment needed for these facilities and
the general lack of disposable income to sustain their operation. However, practically all the
drug vendor shops and drug stores, and over 70% of the pharmacies are owned by the private
sector. A significant proportion of poor rural households go to private rural drug vendors. The
role of the private sector is also expected to evolve and become more significant over time,



Annex 4
Page 3 of 20
particularly when the health care financing strategy now under consideration is approved and
implemented.
Communities are also important both as potential sources of financing or labor and
materials, as well as in serving as conduits of information to improve the awareness of its
members on health issues and practices which could affect the demand for preventive health
care.
Adequacy of the Sector policy Framework
The HSDP is based on a well-thought out policy framework. Primary health care is seen
as the key strategy for improving health status nationwide. Government policy has developed
gradually since 1991 based on the principles of increasing access to a basic package of quality
primary health care services, cost-effectiveness, and decentralization (taking into account the
importance of central and regional governments).
The key points and objectives of the HSDP for the period 1997-2002 are as follows:
- increase access to health care from 45% to 55-60% of the population
improve service quality through better facilities and equipment, training, and
improved supply of necessary inputs such as drugs
- funding for the existing system plus new expansion will total 5 billion Birr over
five years (current prices)
- the Government of Ethiopia (GOE) will finance 55.4% of total expenditures
(including all recurrent costs, except certain inputs such as drugs, and a
contribution to proposed capital expenditures of about 33 %)
The HSDP prioritizes the expansion and rehabilitation of a network of primary health
care units (PHCUs), while also upgrading and expanding hospital facilities. Improvement in
equity is a priority through increased access to health services for the rural and poor populations.
Through eight specific technical components the program concentrates on primary level
interventions that are considered cost-effective, including basic preventive and curative services.
The proposed Health Care Financing Strategy will provide the legislative framework for the
expansion of alternative funding sources such as insurance schemes and user charges. The
strategy aims to improve financial sustainability and reduce the burden of financing on the public
sector. Priority is also given to the development of human resources, health information systems
and the process of monitoring and evaluation.
The program represents an increase in health sector funding, reflecting a strong
commitment to human welfare improvements and poverty reduction by the FDRE. Substantial
public resources have been reallocated away from defense and channeled to the social sectors
since 1991. The FDRE has strong ownership of the HSDP which prioritizes issues of equity and
quality. The program has been developed in coordination with donor agencies and, to a
generally lesser extent, with other stakeholders.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 20
Financial Assessment
Macroeconomic Situation
Ethiopia has enjoyed economic growth in each year since 1992/3, as a result of both
improved macro-economic management and generally favorable weather patterns. Table 4.1
shows key indicators for recent years, with annual GDP growth reaching almost 12 percent in
1992/93, dropping to 5.4 percent two years later and rising to over 10% in the following year.
Real growth was 5.3% in 1996/97 before dropping to 0.5% in 1997/98 because of adverse
weather conditions. Substantial variations in economic output are likely to continue in the short
to medium tern due to high dependence on the agricultural sector, which contributes around
57% of GDP, and provides approximately 85% of total employment.
Table 4.1: Macro-economic indicators
INDICATOR                       1992/3    199415      199516    199617   1997/8
Real GDP growth (% on previous    11.7      5.4        10.6      5.3      0.5
year)
Real GDP per capita (US$)        130        100        100       n.a.     n.a.
Government debt (as % GDP)      >10%       <8%         <8%       n.a.     n.a.
Sources: "Ethiopia: Public Expenditure Review," Volume I. World Bank, 1997 and IMF estimates
Per capita income has fallen since 1992/3 despite economic growth, mainly due to the
devaluation of the currency (Birr) and population increases. Non-agricultural GDP grew at an
average of 10.6% per annum between 1993 and 1996 partly reflecting the fact that new growth
adds to an extremely small base level. Real GDP growth for 1997/8 is estimated at 0.5%,
substantially lower than 1996/97, but with substantial growth in the non-agricultural sector
balancing out a substantial fall in agricultural output.
Coffee is the main foreign currency earner, with total exports increasing in volume by
12% in both 1994/5 and 1995/6. Improved macro-economic management has led to stabilization,
with low inflation (decreasing from over 20% in the early 1990s to 0.9% in 1995/6) and a
reduction in fiscal deficit to less than 8% GDP in 1996/7 from over 10% in the early 1990s.
Since the end of the civil war in 1991 government expenditures have switched away from
defense and towards the social sector, and tax revenue has increased as a percentage of GDP.
The economic reform process has taken place under the IMF enhanced structural adjustmnent
facility, with additional support from IDA and other donors.
Trends in Health Sector Financing
Government expenditure on health in Ethiopia currently stands at US$ 1.70 per capita
per annum, considerably less than the least developed countries' (LDCs) average of US$ 5.90.
However, total government expenditure has increased from 1.3% of GDP prior to 1991, to 1.7%
of GDP in 1997, similar to other LDCs. It is Ethiopia's poverty that severely limits the absolute
level of health expenditures.
As a share of total government expenditures the health sector received around 6.6% in
1997, compared with an average of 3.5% throughout the 1980s, reflecting the concerted efforts



Annex 4
Page 5 of 20
made by the FDRE to increase health sector funding. This trend is also reflected in the
government's share of total health expenditures which has increased from 35% in 1985/6 to 61%
in 1995/96.
Table 4.2: Health Sector Financing
Average for least developed
Indicator                          199011       1997/8              countries 1995
Govemment health expenditure as %   1.3%          1.7%                   1.9%
G D P_ _                             _ _  __ _                 _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _   _
Govemment health expenditure per     2.4          1.7                     5.9
capita (US$)
Health spending as % total          3.5%         6.6%                    7.4%
government expenditure
Private expenditure as % total health  63%        39%                    59%
spending (1986 and 1996)
Govemment capital expenditures on   2.7%         7.9%
health as % total capital
Government recurrent expenditures   3.5%         5.5%
on health as % total recurrent  I
Source: "Health Sector Public Expenditure Review for Ethiopia," World Bank, 1997. Note: 1997/8 figures are
estimates.
Both recurrent and capital government health expenditures have increased substantially
since 1991, with capital expenditures rising more rapidly than recurrent. This pattern is a result
not only of central government allocations, but the decisions of individual regional governments.
Summary table 4.3 provides further details of regional budget expenditures for financial year
1996/7. Regional government health spending per capita varied widely, with Gambella having
spent 8.4 times the national average, and Amhara only 0.6 times of the average. This pattern
reflects the national formula for allocating resources among regions, regional preferences for
allocating resources to health services, and the health infrastructure each region inherited when
formed in 1991.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 20
Table 4.3 Government health expenditures by region 1996/7 and intended allocations under HSDP
Summary of actual health    POPULATION                  Total health spending    Ratio of regional  % total health   % allocation of total
expenditures FY1996197      (millions)      total pop        per capita      spending to national    spending           under HSDP
199617 (Birr)      average, 199617        199617            1997-2002
Addis                         2.363           4.2%               21                 1.76                7%                  7%
Afar                          0.816           1.5%               28                 2.31                3%                  5%
Amhara                        14.816         26.4%               7                  0.62                16%                 18%
Benshangul-Gumuz              0.493          0.9%               38                  3.14                3%                  3%
Dire Dawa                     0.277          0.5%               31                  2.56                1%                  3%
Gambella                      0.195          0.3%               102                 8.44                3%                  3%
Harari                        0.144          0.3%               66                  5.50                1%                  2%
Oromia                        20.048         35.7%               8                  0.63                22%                 23%
SNNP                          11.104         19.8%              11                  0.94                19%                 15%
Somali                        2.477          4.4%               11                  0.87                4%                  7%
Tigray                        3.366           .,0%               18                 1.46                9 _   9%o           7%
C entral                  ____________   j   ____________   __________________  _________________       11%                 9%
NATIONAL                      56.099         100%                12                 1.00               100%                100%
Source: 'Health Sector Public Expenditure Review for Ethiopia' World Bank 1997.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 20
Average regional recurrent expenditures per capita increased almost 25% in nominal
terms over the last four years, or 6% in real terms. Nationally recurrent spending increased 60%
in nominal terms in 1993/4 (over the previous year), 14% in 1994/5, 5% in 1995/6 and 0.5% in
1996/7. At Birr 4.59 per capita in 1996/7 (approximately US$ 0.68) recurrent spending will need
to rise more rapidly to reach the US$ 13 estimated in the World Bank's report "Better Health in
Africa" as necessary for the financing of a basic package of primary health care (including water
supply and sanitation) or about US$9- 10 excluding water supply and sanitation.
FDRE allocations of recurrent funding to primary health care increased over the period
1987-1993 to around 40% of total FDRE recurrent spending, but fell in the past four years to
37.4%. This recent trend away from PHC resulted partly from increased allocations of capital
expenditure to hospital facilities (from 17% in 1994 to 30% in 1997), creating greater demands
for recurrent funding. Without adequate recurrent funding to the primary level, an expanded
infrastructure will achieve little in terms of improving the health outcomes.
Recurrent spending on salary compared to nonsalary items reflects technical efficiency
and indicates the priority given to funding those supplies and services such as drugs,
maintenance, and repairs that are necessary to ensure the delivery of quality health services.
Since 1991 nonsalary expenditures have increased from 32.7% of the total to 46.7%, which is
encouraging. On the other hand, low salaries in the public health sector may contribute to low
quality of care in terms of staff motivation.
As government health spending has increased as a share of total spending, private
payments have correspondingly declined to 39%; this includes payments to private providers
(31% of health spending) and public providers (8% of health spending). User fees have existed
since the 1950s and constituted almost 20% of total recurrent spending up to 1992, since then
they have declined to 9% in 1997. This trend is a result of several factors including increases in
total recurrent spending without fee increases, a high percentage of the population covered by
exemptions, and a fall in the previously strong effort at fee collection, mainly due to lack of
incentive at the facility level. As a percentage of total household expenditure, recent estimates
put health spending at a low 0.7%.
The share of external grants and loans in total spending has increased from 1986 to 1996,
although its share of the capital budget has declined a bit. The Health Sector Investment
Program launched by the FDRE in July 1997 to which donors have pledged around US$ 313
million over the next 5 years, represents an increase in external funding.
Cost analysis andfiscal impact of HSDP
The proposed expansion of health facilities and their scheduling under the HSDP reflects
the policy priority of improving access to primary care facilities, with the construction of 216
PHCUs, 12 district hospitals, 5 zonal hospitals, and 2 special hospitals, and the rehabilitation and
refurbishment of 150 health centers, 50 district hospitals, 10 zonal hospitals, and 5 special
hospitals by 2002. In addition the construction of 58 other new buildings (stores, training schools
and administrative buildings) across the five years is also planned. The total program represents
a significant increase in the network of health facilities nation-wide.



Annex 4
Page 8 of 20
The Program Action Plan (PAP) prepared by tlhe MOH provides regional budgets which
when summarized amount to a total of about 4,497 million Birr (with the balance of the 5 billion
Birr programmed for contingency), comprising 33% for civil works and 67% for recurrent
expenditures. This represents a marked change in the original balance of planned capital
expenditures which was around 50% of the total, a level that was considered financially
unsustainable. Thus, this reallocation is a commendable step.
Table 4.4: HSDP Budget based on Regional and MOH budgets, (million Birr, in
constant prices)
Year                Capital        Recurrent        Total
Year 1 (1997/98)                 257.7          428.1          685.8
Year 2 (1998/99)                 363.9          593.2          957.1
Year 3 (1999/2000)               331.5          613.3          944.8
Year 4 (2000/2001)               284.2          670.2          954.4
Year 5 (2001/2002)               241.9          712.8          954.7
Total without contingency       1,479.3  X     3,017.6         4,496
Total with contingency          1,645.4        3,356.5         5,002
Source: Regional and MOH HSDP plans, 1998.
In terms of required annual budgets to implement the plan, there is a substantial increase
of around 39% from the first to the second years, with very gradual increases in subsequent
years. The large increase in the second year is a combination of a 38.5% rise in the recurrent
budget, and a 41% increase in the capital budget. Given the large underspend of capital budgets
in the years prior to the HSDP due to limited implementation capacity it may prove difficult to
disburse this sudden and substantial increase
In order to further analyze the program budget a consistency check was undertaken. It
confirmed the affordability of the HSDP, assuming nc macroeconomic shocks, as well as no
further escalation of the dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea, and no natural disasters.
Capital expenditures peak in year 2 at a level of around 363.9 million Birr, excluding
contingency. The plan looks realistic overall, although the sharp rise in capital expenditures in
year 2 is a source of concern.
Recurrent expenditures must first cover the cost of running existing facilities and
services, then cover any increases in their funding (e.g. drugs or salaries), and finally cover the
running costs of new facilities. Poor quality of healthi services often results from inadequate
recurrent funding. Total recurrent costs are estimated at about 3,017.6 million Birr. Compared
with recurrent budget increases of 5% in 1995/6 and 0D.5% in 1996/7, the HSDP represents a
significant expansion in recurrent funding (see Table 4.5). While highly commendable, this
expansion necessitates that systems through which the recurrent budget flows must be rapidly
strengthened to enable them to deal efficiently with increased funding.



Annex 4
Page 9 of 20
Table 4.5: Implied annual increases in the recurrent budget
PAP
Year 1              27%
Year 2              38%
Year 3             3.1%
Year 4             9.2%
Year 5             6.3%
Source: HSDP team calculations
Annual increases in the recurrent expenditures are uneven. In the first year they increase
by 27% of actual expenditure in the previous year. Following a greater increase in the second
year, the rate of increase drops. As a whole, the flow of recurrent funds to the health sector will
increase significantly compared with intended allocations during and prior to preappraisal and
this is considered a positive change. This is an important issue as it is generally accepted that
health services in Ethiopia are significantly underfunded.
As a percentage of GDP the PAP predicts that government health spending will rise from
the current 1.7% to 2.0% in the fifth year (assuming GDP growth as outlined in footnote 1).' The
average for low income countries is presently 1.9%.
Affordability analysis
The GOE intends to finance 55.4% of the total program. Originally it planned to finance
about 33% of total capital expenditure. This commitment implies the funding obligations from
both the GOE and donors in Table 4.6, using the capital-recurrent breakdown presented in the
PAP.
Table 4.6: GOE and donor funding implications -
PAP based (constant million Birr)*
__________         Gcapital         Recurrent         Total
Donors              1,097            1,028.1         2,125.1
GOE                  548             2,225.5         2,773.5
TOTAL =         1,645             3,357          5,002.0
*The contingency has been included in this table and applied equally to capital and recurrent elements.
Approximately US$ 323 million or 2,190 million Birr have been pledged by donors to
date. While there may be delays in the actual disbursement of the pledged funds and a need for
new commitments there is little doubt that sufficient donor funds will become available.
While the proposed ESAF/PFP estimates annual GDP growth for Ethiopia to remain fairly constant at about 70/o, the
growth projections in this annex are based on more conservative assumptions such as the occurrence of droughts
or other macroeconomic shocks.



Annex 4
Page IO of 20
Approximately US$ 323 million or 2,190 million Birr have been pledged by donors to
date. While there may be delays in the actual disbursement of the pledged funds and a need for
new commitmnents there is little doubt that sufficient donor funds will become available.
On the FDRE side, a total of 2,773.5 million Birr2 or almost 55.4% must be provided by
GOE to fully finance the program. Table 4.7 shows GOE funding requirements by year and
compares these figures with health budget increases3. Given expected budget growth the plan
appears to be within the reach of the FDRE although a 10% shortfall in available funds would,
however, lead to some underfinancing, unless additional funds are made available or cost-
recovery can fill the gap..
Table 4.7: Projections of required and available government funding (constant millions
Birr)
Required GOE    Projected
funding - PAP    health
(million Birr)  -  budget
Year 1         423          530
Year 2         590          572
Year 3   1     582.1        612 
Year4          589.1        627
Year 5        589.3         671
TOTAL        2,773.5       3,012
Source: HSDP team calculations
Cost recovery
The section in this annex on trends in health sectof financing discussed the system of
user charges in Ethiopia, with fee revenue in MOH facilities at around 9% of total government
recurrent spending in 1996/7, and wide variation across regions. In 1996 around 0.35 Birr per
capita was collected in this way. Fee revenue could be increased by improving the incentives for
collection, e.g. by allowing the retention (typically between 50-100%) of revenue at the health
facility. Fee rates should also be adjusted in line with inflation. One report, on the basis of NGO
experience in 1995/6, estimates that potential revenue generation could have amounted to 79.7
million Birr or 22% of recurrent expenditure.
Insurance schemes comprised a low 0.5% of total expenditure in 1996, primarily
through the social insurance scheme for government employees although insurance has also been
extended to private sector employees. In total 0.03% of the population were covered by medical
insurance in 1995. In the light of the expansion of the health system, insurance may serve as a
complementary financing mechanisms to general taxation and direct charges.
Aside from insurance schemes in the formal sector, traditional insurance schemes,
such as iddir which finance funerals and other emergency costs out of small monthly voluntary
Both calculations use an exchange rate of US$1 = 6.78 Birr at the time of appraisal.
3See note I above.



Annex 4
Page 1Il of 20
contributions of community members, could also be expanded as a means to provide health
insurance coverage. However, some revision of institutional practices would be needed regarding
contribution levels, illnesses covered and payment rates per illness type. Government input
would also be needed to promote the use of iddir for this purpose and to assist communities in
the management of this local insurance scheme. The Government itself would need to develop its
policies and guidelines regarding the management of these community insurance schemes and
the extent to which Government funding would be required to support them.
A number of NGOs have been active in encouraging the establishment of revolving
community drug funds, to improve the access of the rural populations to essential drugs. There is
evidence in Ethiopia that these revolving funds can be financially successful and can be applied
in both rural and urban settings. UNICEF has also been promoting the establishment of
community-owned pharmacies, along the lines of the Bamako Initiative, as another means to
improve access to essential drugs. Since 1990/91, seven community-owned pharrnacies have
been opened in Bichena (Amhara region), Sululta and Mana Kersa (Oromia region), Yirga Chefe
and Dammot (SNNPR), Kechene and Yeka (Addis Ababa). These pharmacies were initially
funded by UNICEF while WHO provided the technical support. Supervisory services were
provided by the Ministry of Health, which prepared a procedures manual regarding the
management of the pharmacies. The funds provided by UNICEF are repaid after three years of
operation, at which time most pharmacies have accumulated enough capital to continue
operation independently. Expansion of these activities will require continued technical guidance
and supportive policies on the part of the Government.
Uncertainties remain over the acceptable level of revenue generation. Given the
extremely low income levels for the majority of the population, the experience of other countries
where utilization rates dropped substantially following fee introduction, and the policy priority
of increasing access, any increase in fee charges must be treated with caution. However, the low
levels of household expenditure on health referred to would suggest that there is scope for
greater cost-recovery.
Resource Allocation Analysis
Table 4.8 summarizes planned regional expenditures under the HSDP budget for the
first five years.



Annex 4
Page 12 of 20
Table 4.8: Summary of HSDP Regional Allocations 1997-2002
Population 1997   Allocation
(millions)     (million Birr)
Addis Ababa             2.363            333
Afar                    0.816           228
Amhara                 14.816           876
Benshangul             0.493            173
Dire Dawa              0.277            173
Gambella               0.195             128
Harari                 0.144             82
Oromiya                20.048           1,155
SNNP                   11.104           726
Somali                 2.477            342
Tigray                 3.366            347
Central MOH       _                     438
TOTAL                  56.099           5,002
Source: HSDP Program Action Plan
Resource allocation to regional governments is based on a complex formula which
includes population size, the 'I' distance factor (which includes eight variables reflecting the
socioeconomic development of each region), and total revenue effort. Overall it aims to reflect
the level of socioeconomic development of the different regions, but is also influenced by the
level of existing health infrastructure. The same formula has been used by the Government for
projecting regional expenditures out of the Birr 5 billion HSDP total.
Demand Analysis
Utilization of outpatient services in public health facilities is particularly low at present,
averaging 0.27 new contacts per person per year. This compares with a commonly found rate for
developing countries of 2.5 new attendances per person per year. Survey results conclude that
this situation is caused by a combination of very low access to health services and a perception
of low quality. Only one in ten episodes of illness results in demand for government health
services.
Earlier studies have also shown that treatment-seeking behavior is low in Ethiopia. In
several rural areas in Western Shewa, only 26% of ill persons used modern health services while
52% used traditional medicine (Kloos et al, 1987). According to the National Rural Health
Survey, which was carried out among 13,000 randomly selected households in 1982/83, only
13% of ill patients used modern health services and 72% received no treatment at all (CSA,
1985).
The findings of the PHRD studies are comparable to the findings of the earlier studies
cited above. The fact that similar results were obtained in studies at different times and
conditions confirm that the findings are likely to be reliable. Regression results from the PHRD
study on household demand for health care (1996)indicate that rural residence and distance to
health care facilities are very strongly associated with lower rate of treatment. On the other hand,
health of the mother (for children) or health of the individual, education of the household head at
primary and post-primary level, and household expenditure (as a proxy for income) have a



Annex 4
Page 13 of 20
positive and significant impact on obtaining treatment. For persons older than six, being male
and belonging to a large household are strongly associated with obtaining treatment. Wealthier
households placed relatively more importance on quality of facilities (quality perceived in terms
of availability of drugs, together with the presence and attitudes of health staff) than poor
households who rated cost of travel and treatment as the most important factor that influences
their decision to seek treatment.
The PHRD studies also find a significant relationship between spending on health and
total expenditure levels. The poorest quartile of the population spends on average just over 6 Birr
per capita (US$ 0.90) each year, whereas the wealthiest quartile spends approximately 38 Birr
per capita (US$ 6.0). Further analysis calculated a very low expenditure elasticity for health,
suggesting that health care in Ethiopia is considered a necessity and not a luxury good.
Of those reporting an illness and who actually sought treatment, only 43 percent utilized
government facilities. Populations of urban areas are more likely to use government facilities
(approximately 50 percent) than those of rural areas (41 percent). Resorting to private
individuals and private institutions, including traditional healers, pharmacies, and drug vendors,
is much more common in rural areas than in urban areas.
A more detailed breakdown of utilization by type of provider is presented in Table 4.9.
It shows that higher-income households are more likely to utilize hospitals than poorer
households. In contrast, poorer households are more likely to obtain treatment from clinics and,
in particular, pharmacies and rural drug vendors.
Table 4.9 Type of Provider Utilized by Expenditure Group (percent)
Poorest   Lower  Higher  Richest    Total
Middle  Middle
Nearest Hospital              7.7      16.1    20.4     19.1     16.0
Nearest Clinic               40.0     35.0    31.2      30.8     34.3
Pharmacy                     24.6      15.7    18.0     11.3     17.1
Hospital/Clinic (not nearest)  11.3    11.8    10.4     16.9     12.7
Home of Health Worker        11.3      10.7    10.0     14.9     11.7
Traditional Healer             5.0     10.8     9.7      7.0       8.3
Source: PHRD Study No.2a, 1996
Regression analyses undertaken in the PHRD Household Demand for Health studies
(1996) report that distance to provider is a significant determinant of choice across provider
types. The quality of the clinic (as measured by the reliability of drug supplies) matters
significantly in the choice of providers, except in the case of pharmacies. Whether a woman is ill
or a woman heads the household are both positively associated with the use of pharmacies.
Finally, women and female-headed households are much more likely to consult traditional
healers than men or male-headed households.
Preliminary evidence suggests that the NGO sector is two to three times more productive
than the public sector in Ethiopia; productivity being measured in terms of ambulatory visits per
employee/trained health worker. Private services are also generally perceived to be delivered in
a more timely manner than public services.



Annex 4
Page 14 of 20
Thus while the precise impact of HSDP on demand is somewhat difficult to predict,
some broad conclusions are possible. Extending the PHC network is likely to lead to greater
demand through lower indirect costs such as decrease in travel time, provided quality is
acceptable. Improved health staff, greater availability of drugs and other medical supplies and
equipment, along with parallel improvements in access to health and road networks, are also
likely to increase demand in the medium to long term. The increase in non-governmental
providers (provisions for which are made in the HSDP) may provide greater choice, particularly
in urban areas that can afford them. Efforts to support rural drug vendors in improving the
quality of their services can benefit the poor households who generally tend to use them.
Benefit/Impact Analysis
The complexity of health project benefits and means of valuation makes quantification
in one standard unit, monetary or otherwise extremely difficult and liable to error. The sector-
wide program  approach makes this problem  even more difficult because of  its sheer
comprehensiveness. In practical terms, the HSDP also does not lend itself to assessing in
advance, the rate of return on IDA's contribution because IDA serves as a lender of last resort.
Thus, IDA's funding is fungible and will only be determined annually based on annual work
program reviews and agreements with the FDRE and other donors. However, it is also IDA's
role as a residual financier that makes determining the overall soundness of the HSDP even
more important.
There are three main dimensions to the allocation of resources under the HSDP that are
relevant to assessing benefit/impact.
The HSDP aims to increase PHC access from 45 % to 55-60% . By expanding PHC
services into rural areas, where the majority of the poor live, the HSDP will increase access to
essential health services. In turn, with increases in access and utilization (based on better
quality services and improved IEC), there will be a reduction in the burden of disease.  The
emphasis on PHCUs and District Hospitals is a welcome strategic move, as it can be assumed
that these facilities will be used almost exclusively by the rural population. Allocations to
PHCUs are estimated at approximately 64% of the total HSDP budget or 54% of recurrent costs,
assuming that the plan is fully implemented and fundled.4 This would represent a shift away
from the recent trend of declining recurrent funding share for PHC which was noted earlier in the
trends in health sector financing section. The main concern is that, in the event of budget
shortfalls, the parallel plan for substantial investment in hospital services could drain recurrent
funding, working against the stated priorities of the HSDP. However, the Government has stated
explicit priorities of slowing capital investrnent in total and in tertiary facilities in case of a
resource shortfall.
The HSDP also prioritizes the expansion of primary level interventions that addresses
the main causes of lost DLYs (discounted life years lost due to premature deaths). As noted in
the World Bank's Social Sector Report (1998), Ethiopia's burden of disease is dominated by
acute respiratory infections and peri-natal and maternal conditions, followed by malaria,
nutritional deficiency, diarrhea and AIDS. The top 10 causes of mortality account for 74 percent
This figure assumes that funding of existing services continues to be split as in 1996/7: 37% for primary level and
63% for non-primary.



Annex 4
Page 15 of 20
of all deaths and 81 percent of DLYs lost. Diseases that affect children under the age of 5 years
(ARI, diarrhea, nutritional deficiencies and measles) account for 33 percent of deaths and 40
percent of DLYs lost, although children under 5 represent well under 20 percent of the
population. When peri-natal and maternal conditions are added, the health problems of mothers
and children combined account for 50 percent of all deaths and 56 percent of DLYs lost.
Although largely preventable, childhood and maternal illnesses and communicable diseases are
the major causes of death in Ethiopia. Given that 81% of DLYs lost in Ethiopia are due to
largely preventable causes, HSDP's focus on primary care and on MCH services is thus well
directed.
Table 4.10 Burden of Disease for Ethiopia
Mortality Untreated Average DLYs
Population   Deaths    DLYs Lost   Rate Per   CFR5    Age at   Lost
CauseslConditions    Group    (percent)   (percent)    1,000   (percent)   Death
AIDS              All             7.7         8.1        1.32     100.0      27     26.2
ARI               Under 5        14.4        17.1       13.33      15.4       2     29.9
Cardiovascular    15 +            0.9         0.8        0.27      45.0      40     22.9
Diarrhea          Under 5         7.6         9.0        7.03       0.4       2     29.9
Injury/Trauma     All             0.9         0.8        0.15      --        34     24.5
Malaria           All            10.0        10.9        1.71      10.0      20     27.5
Measles           Under 5         3.5        4.1         3.22       3.0       1.5   30.0
Nutritional Deficiency  Under 5   7.8         9.3        7.20      12.0       2     29.9
Perinatal-Maternal   Preg. Women +
Births       16.8        16.3        -                    25     26.6
Tuberculosis      All             4.8         4.8        0.82      44.6      30     25.5
Total Target Diseases            74.3        81.3
All Other Diseases   All         25.7        18.7                            53      18.3
TOTAL             All           100.0       100.0
Source: PHRD Study No. 3, 1996.
The HSDP aims to contribute to improved health outcomes through reduced morbidity
and mortality rates, which from an investment in human capital perspective will significantly
increase the over-all welfare and productivity of Ethiopians. By investing in interventions that
have public good properties, that reduce the spread of diseases such as ARI, TB, and STD/AIDS,
the negative externalities involved with contracting the disease (poor health, low productivity,
and burden on household members who have to care for the sick member) will also be reduced.
Assuming that new outpatient contacts double within the five year period (to 0.5 per capita per
annum), as a result of increased access to effective services, an additional 15 million episodes of
illness per year would be successfully dealt with, with concomitant improvements in both health
and economic benefits.
The HSDP will also have wider economic benefits such as increased employment
opportunities because of the substantial demand for workers and civil engineers in construction
together with the need for additional health staff for the new facilities to be constructed.
Increased productivity due to better health can also lead to improved agricultural performance,
Case Fatality Rate



Annex 4
Page 16 of 20
which is especially important in an economy that is still quite dependent on traditional, mostly
labor-intensive farming. In Ethiopia, 85% of the population work in agriculture either as
subsistence fanners or hired labor. The consequences of not investing in the health sector would
include declining access to health services(as population increases), with expected negative
effects on health outcomes and the economy.
Finally, the sector-wide approach also avoids uncoordinated developments/activities in
the different subsectors of the health sector that could have quality implications, e.g. expansion
of health facilities would not be an effective strategy for increasing utilization of health services
if there were no corresponding activities geared towards human resource development and
increasing the availability of pharmaceuticals.
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
Sensitivity analysis is necessary to assess the possible impact of future events different
to those used in initial or base calculations. The HSDP plans use constant prices and assume that
the cost of construction will remain constant across the five years. Adjustments are made in these
and other assumptions in order to establish their impact on the affordability of the program.
These adjustments are made using a model with a slightly different phasing of expenditures from
the actual HSDP plans, but the conclusions of the sensitivity analysis are robust.
General inflation
All calculations presented in the financial analysis section used constant prices. The 5
billion Birr planned for the HSDP, however, is in current prices. If 5% inflation is applied to the
constant price estimates in year 2 and each following year, then 5,166 million Birr will be
required to fully finance the program  (see Table 4.11). The 505 million Birr contingency
contingency which allows for up to 5 billion Birr to be spent is sufficient to accommodate such
an inflationary increase, leaving about 4.5 million Birr to cover cost increases in the other
elements of the program.
Table 4.11: Sensitivity Analysis: General Inflation
Required total funding - base    Required total funding - 5%
scenario (million Birr)  inflation (million Birr)
Year 1           685.8                     685.8
Year 2           957.1                    1,004.9
Year 3           944.8                    1,041.6
Year 4           954.4                    1,104.8
Year 5           954.7                    1,160.4
TOTAL            4,496.7                  4,997.5
Source: HSDP team calculations
Moreover inflation might not pose a serious problem to the HSDP budget because recent
FDRE-IMF projections estimate that Ethiopia's inflation rate will decline from 4% in year 2 to
about 3 % by year 5 of HSDP.



Annex 4
Page 17 of 20
Construction price inflation
It is possible, given the large increase in capital investment across the three sector
development programs (health, education, and roads), that increased demand for the inputs of
construction (e.g. labor, materials) will lead to increases in construction costs that are faster than
general inflation. The base analysis assumes constant construction prices. The following table
shows required funds if there is a 5% relative increase in construction costs, either in year 2 and
in the three subsequent years, or in year 3 and subsequent years.
Table 4.12: Sensitivity analysis: construction price inflation
Required funding for    Required funding for    Required Funding for
capital investment- base   capital investment- 5%    capital investmert 5%.
scenario (million Birr)  inflation in year 2   inflation in year& 3p)l
onwards (million Birr)''  onwards (million Birr).
Year 1                257.7                  257.7                  257.7
Year 2                363.9                  382.1                  363.9
Year 3                331.5                  365.5                  348.0
Year 4                284.2                  329.0                  313.3
Year 5                241.9                  294.0                  280.0
TOTAL                1,479.3                  1,628                 1,562.9
Source: HSDP team calculations
If construction prices rise relatively faster by 5% per annum beginning in year 2 then an
additional 149 million Birr will be required to finance the construction. If inflation is applied in
year 3 onwards only 86.3 million Birr extra are required. Under both scenarios the impact is not
considerable and well within the total budget including contingency.
Recurrent funding of newly builtfacilities:
The HSDP plans assume that facilities operate at full cost from the first year. An
alternative (gradual increase scenario) analysis assumes that new facilities will not initially
operate at full cost, but rather at 60% of full cost in the first year, 70% in the second, and so on
until operating at 100% in the fifth year. Such a scenario saves funds which may be released for
other activities (e.g. maintenance).
Table 4.13: Sensitivity analysis: recurrent funding of newly built facilities
Required recurrent funding for  Required recurrentifunding
new facilities -base/gradual    f6 new facilities I 100%/c
___________scenario (million ~Birr     Scet i (million,Bjf) 
Year 1                                 0                         0
Year 2                                23                        33
Year 3                                53                        70
Year 4                                59                        79
Year 5                               104                       123
TOTAL                                239                       305
Source: Jowett, 1998.



Annex 4
Page 18 of 20
The analysis shows that by gradually increasing the recurrent funding of newly built
facilities, 66 million Birr will be saved over the five year period. The savings are thus not
considerable, with little money released for other activities.
Other SDPs and Other Non-SDP Sectors
Assuming that Ethiopia stays within the projected recurrent and capital expenditure
targets as agreed under the PFP, the 1997 Public Expenditure Review (PER) predicted that the
SDP-related expenditures will inevitably lead to substantial reallocation of expenditures from
non-SDP sectors to the roads, education, and health sectors. In particular, the PER pointed out
that the intersectoral shift in capital spending will be dramatic relative to recurrent spending.
The roads, education, and health sector have accounted for about 35% of capital spending; with
the SDPs this share would increase to about 86% of capital spending. This implies that the
proportion of capital expenditure going to non-SDP sectors would diminish to approximately
14% of total capital spending. Recently, however, the revised HSDP plans significantly reduced
the amount and the rate of increase of health capital expenditures relative to those used in the
PER scenario. In particular, the capital budget share of the total HSDP budget has declined from
50% to 32.9%
The PER has outlined different scenarios to minimize the budgetary impact on other
sectors of the combined implementation of the three SDPs, one of which includes extending
HSDP implementation from five years to six years. Government also has other options which
are not mutually exclusive. First it can continue to pursue its objectives and seek additional
resources from donors. Such assistance would have to be substantially more than past donor
support and additional to the pledges received for HSDP during the March, 1997 Debre Zeit
FDRE-Donors SDP workshop. Second, it can also try to elicit as much private sector
participation as possible. Third, Government can further scale back capital investments to a more
conservative level.
During negotiations, the Government outlined its inter and intra sectoral priorities in the
event of a budget shortfall by emphasizing that the three SDPs are its priority sectors with
education being its first priority. In addition, in its Letter of Sector Policy for the Health Sector
Development Program dated August, 1998, the Government stated its intrasectoral priorities in
case of a shortfall in total resources for health, which are: the expansion of primary health care
facilities and corresponding recurrent expenditures in lieu of, firstly, tertiary level facilities
expansion and, secondly, capital expenditures in general.
Low Demandfor Services and Lag in Quality Improvements
Low utilization of services might continue in spite of increased access to health
facilities. Quality improvements such as training sufficient health staff and making sure that
facilities are well stocked with drugs might also not be attained in the envisaged pace or time.
The HSDP will try to address low demand through improved IEC. Quality improvements will
also be closely monitored and quality indicators such as availability of drugs and percentage of
functioning health equipment are being incorporated in the monitoring and evaluation system.
The development of appropriate curricula for the different cadres and the actions to be taken to
build up capacity in the procurement, management and distribution of essential drugs are also
areas which technical assistance provided by the joint donor missions have focused on. the



Annex 4
Page 19 of 20
establishment of incentives for public health personnel has also been the subject of recent
Government actions but remains for further examination and dialogue during HSDP
implementation.
Institutional Capacity
Even assuming that the GOE meets the budget allocations required in the cost and
financial analysis, doubts remain over its capacity to spend the capital budget. There has been
significant under-spending on the capital budget (budgeted vs. actual spending) in years previous
to the HSDP period, for example, actual spending in 1995/6 was only 59% of planned spending.
This reflects the Government's limited implementation capacity, partly due to the impact of
decentralization, i.e. devolving responsibilities to the regions, zones, and woredas which had to
assume planning and decision-making responsibilities rather than being simply implementors of
the Center. The Central Ministry has also suffered from attrition of its staff. This institutional
constraint raises important questions in the context of the major capital investments planned for
the health, education, and roads SDPs.
The three SDPs will also pose serious demands on construction implementation capacity
because of their massive combined infrastructure expansion and rehabilitation activities.
Eliciting more participation from the private sector and NGOs is another option for service
provision because they currently play an important role in Ethiopia with 620 primary level
facilities (420 for-profit and 200 non-profit), and nine hospitals ( 8 of which are non-profit). The
positive evidence of their performance to date suggests that greater collaboration between GOE
and the private sector and NGOs is merited, an intention that is also stated in the HSDP plan.
Reducing the bureaucracy involved in setting up a private health facility would encourage new
providers, as would encouraging their involvement in the planning of health services. For-profit
providers could also be encouraged to provide preventive services in rural areas through the
provision of financial subsidies and nonfinancial (such as training) support. Rather than replace
private providers such as rural drug vendors, FDRE could develop a partnership with them to
ensure maximum total provision of essential health services.
There are also efforts to increase the supervision and management capacity of
construction activities indicated in most regional plans. Aside from building capacity in
construction aspects, the Government is currently developing and adding more managerial and
administrative materials to its training curricula for health staff at different levels. This should
be extended to include training in financial management and accounting for health staff,
especially in the light of the cost-recovery objective of the HSDP. MOH has also committed to
creating some new positions in order to strengthen its capacity to set and monitor policies and
standards, and provide technical assistance to regions. Capacity building plans for the MOH
and regions have been drafted. The HSDP Program Action Plan contains specific actions for
institutional capacity building in areas such as management, procurement, finance and
accounting, and monitoring and evaluation.
Possible Budget Reallocation Due to Escalation of Conflict with Eritrea
Concerns have been raised regarding the possible worsening of the border dispute
between Ethiopia and Eritrea and the possible reallocation of resources from the health sector to
finance war efforts. The Government and donors have jointly agreed on the following: key
indicators of progress in health status and health services for the first five years and full 20-year
implementation, indicators by component, annual overall program performance indicators, and



Annex 4
Page 20 of 20
budgets. These indicators will be used to review HSDP performance during annual joint
government-donor reviews and supervision missions. A mid-term review of the program will
also be conducted. Based on sector performance, IDA has the option to adjust and even
withdraw its funding, as outlined in the HSDP Support Development Credit Agreement.
Conclusion
The focus of the HSDP on increasing access to primary health care (including health
promotion and prevention, and basic curative care), amongst the rural poor population will bring
significant physical and economic benefits to the population. Recent positive trends in both the
financing and provision of public health services confirm the FDRE's commitment to the sector.
If fully implemented, the allocation of recurrent funds to the primary level would increase from
38% in the years previous to 1997/8, to around 45% of recurrent funding over the five years.
Recurrent funding constitutes around 67% of the total budget, with capital investments scaled
down from about 50% originally. This balance is considered more sustainable financially. The
proposed peak in capital expenditures in year 2 may need to be adjusted in the future in order to
match implementation capacity.
The FDRE can afford its share of the HSDP giiven the projections for economic growth
outlined in this analysis. Inflation of 5% annually in year 2 onwards would not absorb the entire
contingency although only a small amount will be left to cover other cost increases. However,
inflation is unlikely to pose a serious problem because recent IMF estimates predict that inflation
will decline to 3%  by 2002. There is concern that in the event of budget shortfalls, the funding
of PHC services could come under pressure, given parallel investment in hospital facilities.
However, the policy framework clearly prioritizes more and improved primary health services
and recurrent funding to this level and this priority is clearly reiterated in Government's Letter of
Sector Policy dated August 10, 1998. In this letter, the Government at the appraisal mission's
request has prepared a contingency plan that outlined its priorities within the health sector in the
event of budget shortfalls, giving priority to primary health care in lieu of tertiary health
facilities.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 38
Health Sector Development Program
Governance, Implementation, Procurement, and Disbursement and Financial Management
Arrangements
5.1    Program Governance
Implementation period:   Five years (1997/98-2001/02)
Executing agency:      Ministry of Health
Implementing bodies:    MOH, Regional Health Bureaus
5.1.1 Overview of Ethiopian Government and Administration
Ethiopia is a federation of regions which are based on nationality and therefore vary in size and
population. The constitution provides an explicit right to self-determination, including secession from the
Federation, and has set out a procedure for exercising this right. The regions are given broad legislative
and executive powers and the constitution provides that "all powers not given separately to the Federal
Government, or powers not given expressly and concurrently to the states and the Federal Government, are
reserved to the states. Nevertheless, the powers of the Regional states are balanced by those powers
reserved to the Federal Government, and by National Policy Directives that apply equally to the Federal
and Regional States. Furthermore, the constitution provides that the Federal State may delegate its powers
to the Regional states and vice versa.
Federal Government. The Federal Govemment comprises a President who is Head of State and
three branches: an executive, a legislative and a judiciary branch.
The Prime Minister is Chief Executive and Chairman of the Council of Ministers. He coordinates
its activities, and has the responsibility of overall supervision on the implementation of policies, orders,
directives and designs adopted by the Council of Ministers. He also has the authority to nominate the
members of the Council of Ministers and to appoint officials of the Federal Government. He submits
periodic reports to the council of peoples' representatives on the executive's accomplishments and plans.
The Prime Minister's office (PMO) is the most powerful organ of the Executive. The PMO,
through its Regional Affairs Subsector (RAS), manages the relationship between Federal and Regional
Executives. It actively coordinates and supervises the work of other Federal Ministries. In this instance,
the Ministry of Health works under the supervision of an office in the PMO which is responsible for the
social sectors. This office has also the overall responsibility for the civil service reform program.
There are two representative, deliberative bodies. The Council of Peoples' Representatives (CPR),
composed of 550 members elected for five years from districts, is the primary legislation body. The
Federal Council is composed of representatives of nations, nationalities and peoples. Each nation,
nationality and people is represented by at least one member in the Federal Council, plus an additional
representative for each million of population. Currently, there are 128 members, also serving for five
years term. The council has the power to interpret the constitution, organize a constitutional inquiry,
decide upon issues involving the rights of nations, and to find solutions to disputes and misunderstandings
that may arise between states.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 38
The CPR has to approve the annual budget, while it is the Federal Council which ultimately
resolves issues concerning the sharing of revenues.
Regional Government. The structure of Regional Governments is in many cases like that of the
Federal Government. There is an elected state council, which elects a president and appoints an executive
Committee.
The President of the Council is the chairperson of the Executive Committee.  The state
council/executive committee has its own secretariat divided into sectors which include Social Affairs
(Health and Education), Economic Affairs (including Planning), Financial and Administrative Affairs and
Security and Justice. A member of the Executive Committee heads each sector and chairs a sector
subcommittee of the Regional Council. The Regional Council establishes Regional Bureaus as separate
entities or by occasionally combining functions to minimize the number of Bureaus. However, all Regions
have separate Bureaus for Planning and Economics, Finance, Works, Health and Education. Heads of
Bureaus are appointed by and responsible to the regional council.
The Zonal level administration except for SNNPR are established by the Regional and the Zonal
Executive Committees and appointed by the Regional Council. SNNPR because of its exceptional ethnic
diversity, has elected councils for all zones. There are also special zones, which do have Zonal councils as
a means of ensuring self-govemment. There are also special woredas which have Zonal status, so that its
organs report directly to the regional level. The Zonal Executive Committee members are designated to
head each of the main sectors like that at Regional level and has its own secretariat. The Heads of
Departments are accountable to the relevant member of the Zonal Executive Committee.
Similarly, heads of Zonal and Woreda level bureaus are appointed by and responsible to the
Council/Executive Committee at each level. This structure has helped to avoid an ambiguous line
relationship from Bureau to Department to office, because the Head at each level are directly responsible
to the respective Executive Committee.
The woredas level is the major decentralized level within the new constitutional frame work, and
all woredas have an elected Woreda council. The structure of a Woreda administration though on a small
scale, is similar to zone and region. At present there is a much reduced range of sector offices in the
Woreda.
Woredas are themselves divided into communities or kebeles which are neighborhood level
administrative units. These are also towns and municipalities with administrative structures of long
standing.
5.2    Organizational arrangements
The decision-making structures of Government, particularly with reference to accountability and
supervision in the health sector, are presented in Figure A5.1 on the following page.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 38
Figure A5.1: Decision-Making Structures of Government with respect to Accountability and
Supervision in Health
Council of Peoples
Representatives
Prime Minster
Council of Ministers
Prime Ministr 
| Office     l
.. .... .. .
Regional Council
Regional President
Regional Executive
Committee
Zonal Executive                           Regional Health 1
Committee                               E_Bureau
Zonal Health   ]
Woreda Council                              Department 
Woreda
Executive
Woreda Health
Office



Annex 5
Page 4 of 38
Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health has the following specific powers and responsibilities
as stipulated in the proclamation No 4/1995:
* Initiates health related policies, laws and directives, prepares plans and budget and implement
it upon approval and assure implementation of laws, directive and regulations;
* Undertakes health related researches and studies, gather and compile statistical data;
* Give health related assistance and advice as necessary to regional executive organs;
* Promotes the expansion of health services;
* Establishes and administer referral hospitals as well as research and study centers;
* Determine standards to be maintained by health services;
* Determine the qualifications of professionals required for engaging in public health service at
various levels, issue certificates of competence to same;
* Determine drugs and medical supplies applicable for the country, set standards and supervise
producers and importers;
* Support research activities to be undertaken on traditional medicines and, for this purpose,
organize centers for research and experiment;
* Devise and follow up the implementation of ways and means of preventing and eradicating
communicable diseases;
* Undertake the necessary quarantine control to protect public health , set standard, prepare
guideline and monitor its implementation;
* Undertake studies with a view to determining the nutritional value of foods; and
* Devise ways to get trained health personnel ancd provide assistance to regions.
The organizational structure of the Ministry of Health is presented in Figure A5.2 on page 6.
The Ministry of Health is directly responsible to the PMO, and it is the PMO that manages the
Federal Government's relationship with the regions. Within PMO, the Regional Affairs Bureau has direct
responsibility for regional matters and is the main contact point for the Regional administrations. MOH
does not have direct administrative authority over the Regional Health Bureau; MOH's role is to initiate
policies, issue standards, cause major health studies, determine value and provide technical support to
Regional Health Bureaus.
The Regional Health Bureau is directly responsible to Regional Council and has the following
powers and duties:
*  Prepare on the basis of the health policy of the country, the health care plan and programs for
the people of the region, and to implement same when approved;
*  Ensure the observance in the region of laws, regulations and directives issues pertaining to
public health;
*  Organize and administer hospitals, health centers, clinics, and research and training
institutions to be established by the regional self-government;
*  Issue licensee to health centers, clinics, laboratories and pharmacies to be established by
domestic organizations and investors, supervise to ensure that they maintain standard
requirement at the national level;
*  Ensure that professionals engaged in public health service in the region satisfy the prescribed
standards and supervise same;
*  Cause the application, together with modern medicine, of traditional medicines and treatment
methods whose efficacy is ascertained;



Annex 5
Page 5 of 38
* Cause the provision of vaccinations, and take other measures, to prevent and eradicate
communicable diseases;
* Participate in quarantine controls undertaken for the protection of public health; and
* Ascertain the nutritional value of foods.
In summary the powers and duties of the Regional Health Bureaus assume the role of practical
implementation of approved policies, plans, standards and guidelines in the regions.



Annex 5
Page 6 of 38
Figure A5.2 - Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Health
Minister
|Medico-legal Service |Auditing Service
|Public Relations Service                                   Wormen' Af
Planninlg and Projects
|Project Formulation & Follow-up Team
Engineering Team                         Vice Minister
Planning & Budget Preparation Team
Health Statistics Team
National Leprosy and                     Administrative
Tuberculosis Control                      and Finance
Program Office
Epidemiology and       Family Health                 Hygiene and       Health Services      Drug
AIDS Department         Department                  Environmental       and Training    Administration
Health           Department      and Control
Departmient                         Department
Health Education
Material Production &
Distribution Center



Annex 5
Page 7 of 38
The distribution of responsibilities for the principal management functions of the health sector at central,
regional, zonal and woreda levels are presented in Table A5.1 on page 10.
However, the level of development of the health management structures presents wide variations
by regions, depending on the overall development of the administrative structure and the patterns of
staffing (both in quantity and quality) at zonal and woreda levels. For instance, in some regions, the zonal
health department represents the lowest management level and some woreda health offices do not exist. In
other regions, the woreda-level social sector offices have been merged into one social sector woreda
office. Consequently the extent of devolution of responsibilities and authority also varies widely among
regions. A progressive upgrading of the management structure up to the required standard is considered
in the regional plans over the duration of the HSDP and will take into account regional specificities.
Other ministries. Four other ministries are of particular relevance for the implementation of
HSDP: the Ministry of Finance, MEDAC, Public Works and the Ministry of Education. Along with the
PMO, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Ministry of Economic Development and cooperation
(MEDAC) have central resource allocation functions. The MOF has the final task of putting together the
consolidated budget and the PMO submits the budget for approval by the Council of Ministers and
presentation to the CPR. The Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development will play a significant
role in the civil works component of HSDP.
Responsibilities of the implementing agencies
Coordination and oversight. Responsibility for coordination and oversight of HSDP is entrusted to
steering committees established at central, and regional levels (Figure 2). The Central Joint Steering
Committee (CJSC) has already been established. The Senior Minister responsible for Social and
Administrative Affairs in the Prime Minister's Office will serve as the chairperson; other members will
include the Ministers of Finance, Economic Development and Cooperation, Health, Education and three
representatives of Donors (resident representatives of the World Bank, UNDP, and USAID). The Minister
of Health acts as secretary to the committee. The Central Joint Steering Committee will convene at least
four times per year and at any other time as may be deemed necessary by the chairperson. In addition, the
national coordinator for the preparation of both sector programs has been designated as head of PMO's
Education and Health Bureau to coordinate their implementation. The CJSC shall whenever appropriate
and as required set-up sub-committees, consultation groups and technical bodies to assist on matters it
deems necessary.
The proposed responsibilities of the CJSC are the following:
*   facilitate the activities towards making the sector programs financeable on a sustainable
basis, mobilize resources and monitor their effective utilization.
*   coordinate donor activities in the respective sectors and seek mechanisms for harmonizing
procedures in financial management, procurement of goods and services, monitoring,
reporting, review and evaluation of program implementation.
*   regularly monitor and endorse the countrywide work plans, major alterations in the plan,
implementation activities and progress reports.
The Regional Joint Steering Committee (RJSC) will coordinate and oversee the Regional HSDP.
The RJSC will be established and located in the Regional Council for Social and Economic Affairs in each
Region. The Head of the Regional Social Affairs will serve as Chairperson, and membership at the



Annex 5
Page 8 of 38
regional level includes the Bureaus of Finance, Planning, Works and Urban Development and the Head of
the Regional Health Bureau as member and secretary to the committee. Wherever possible, donors may be
included as members of the RJSC, and if donors are not present in a particular region then NGOs working
in region may be represented in the RJSC. The RJSC is responsible for decision involving regional
resources mobilization and utilization, approval of work plans and for monitoring progress.  The
Committee will meet at least quarterly and at any other time as decided by the chairperson.
The proposed responsibilities of the RJSC are:
*   meet at least on a quarterly basis, preferably immediately before the quarterly CJSC meeting
i.e. January, April, July and October.
*   facilitate the activities towards making the Regional plans financeable on a sustainable
basis, mobilize local resources and monitor their effective utilization.
*   coordinate and harmonize community, donor and non- government activities in their Region.
*   regularly monitor, endorse and submit to the CJSC, the Regional work plans, major
alterations in the plan, implementation activities and progress reports.
-   make sure that the appropriate financial and progress reports are submitted, in time, to the
CJSC and facilitate joint reviews and evaluation of the Regional program.
X   consult and advice, whenever necessary, the CJSC and the Regional Government on matters
arising from or affecting the implementation process of the two programs in their Region.
Implementation. The Ministry of Health is the overall executive agency responsible for implementation of
HSDP; its mandate with regard to this responsibility sterns from the duties of the joint central steering
committee as well as from proclamation No. 4/95. The Ministry of Health at the Central level and the
Regional Health Bureaus in their respective regions will act as the executing agencies for the individual
components. A table describing implementation and supervision responsibilities at central and regional
levels by HSDP component is presented in Table A5.2 on page 11. Regional responsibilities for
implementation and supervision will be shared among regional, zonal and woreda offices.
Because implementation capacity differs from region to region, regional responsibilities will vary;
depending on existing capacity. Over time during the implementation of HSDP, there will be oppor-
tunities to shift responsibilities to the regions, and these increased responsibilities will gradually be
assumed by the Regional Health Bureau as the Executing Agency for the respective Regional HSDP.



Annex 5
Page 9 of 38
Figure 2: Organizational Chart for HSDP Implementation and Reporting
Central Steering Committee
Chair:         Senior Minister, Social Affairs, PMC *.-
Secretary:     Minister, Health
Minister, Education
Members:       Minister, Finance
Minister, MEDAC
Donor Representatives                          Central Secretariat
Planning and Project Dept.            Central Implementing Bodies
Ministry of Health
MOH Departments
Regional Steering Committee               <- - ----
Chair:         Chairman, Social Affairs Committee
Regional Council
Secretary:     Head, Regional Health Bureau
Members:       Head, Regional Education Bureau
Head, Regional Finance Bureau                   _             _
Head, Regional Urban Development              Regional Secretariat
Head, Regional Planning Bureau
Donor Representatives                        Regional Health Bureau                 Regional Implementing Bodies
Regional Health Bureau
Zonal Health Bureau
Woreda Health Office
Legend - ------------> Reporting Channel
Directives and guidance



Annex 5
Page 10 of 38
Table A5.1: Distribution of Responsibilities for Health at Different Management Levels
I                                    |          Woreda Health Office
Ministry of Health                              RHB                                    ZHD                                   (WHO)
Makes proposals on national policies; laws and    Formulates regional policy, implements  Proposes plans to Health Bureau  Makes proposal to zones
directives and after approval ascertains their  national policy to regional plans
implementation and provides technical assistance
Set standards and supervises implementation  Implements standards                   Implements standards                  Implementation of standards
Promotes expansion of health services       Establishes hospitals, health centers and  Implements and provides feedback.  Implements and provides feed back
research and training institutions
Undertakes health research and studies      Undertakes research and studies and support  Undertakes studies and supports RHB  Provides support in research and studies
similar studies done by MOH             same.
Establishes and manages referral hospitals,  Supports in the management of referral  Supports in the management of referral   Provides support in the management
research and study centers                  hospitais and study centers             hospitals and study centers
Devise ways and means of preventing and     Implements the prevention and eradication    Implements prevention and eradication    Implements prevention and eradication
eradicating communicable disease and assure  measures aimed at communicable diseases.   measures aimed at communicable    measures aimed it communicable diseases
their implementation                                                                diseases
Sets standards, qualifications to train health  Recruits, trains and administers health  Recruits, trains and administer health  Sets conditions of employment
workers and ascertain implementation        workers                                 workers
Undertakes competitive bidding (procurement)    Undertakes, distribute equipment, drugs and  Distributes equipment, drugs and  Distributes equipment, drugs and supplies
and distribution                            other supplies                          supplies
Develops and implements monitoring and      Collects, compiles and manages regional  Collects, compiles and manages Zonal    Collects, compiles and manage data
evaluation and dissemination plan           data analyzes, feed-back                data



Annex 5
Page 11 of 38
Table A5.2: MOH and RHB Implementation Responsibilities by HSDP Component
Component                              MOH Implementation Responsibilities           |       RHB Implementation Responsibilities
Service delivery and quality of care          Family Health Department                                 Health Service and Training Department
Epidemiology and AIDS Department                         Disease Prevention Control Department
National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Program        Malaria and Other Vector Borne Disease Control Dept.
Environmental Health Department                          Regional Laboratory
Health Services and Training Department
Health facility rehabilitation and expansion  Planning and Projects Department                         Planning and Programming Service
Health Services and Training Department                  Engineering and Maintenance Service
Health Service and Training Department
Human resource development                    Health Services and Training Department                  Health Service and Training Department
Planning and Projects Department                         Planning and Programming Service
Management and Training Service                          Administrative and Finance Service
Pharmaceutical services                       Drug Administration and Control Department               Health Service and Training Department
Information, education and communication      Health Education Coordination and Health Learning Materials  Health Service and Training Department
Production Center
Health sector management/MIS                  Health Services and Training Department                  Health Service and Training Department
Planning and Projects Department                         Planning and Programming Service
Administrative and Finance Service                       Administrative and Finance Service
Monitoring and evaluation                     Planning and Projects Department                         Planning and Programming Service
Health care financing                         Planning and Projects Department                         Planning and Programming Service
Health Services and Training Department                  Health Service and Training Department
Administrative and Finance Service                       Administrative and Finance Service



Annex 5
Page 12 of 38
Management. As secretariats respectively to the central and regional steering committees, the
Planning and Projects Department of MOH and the Regional Health Bureaus will assume responsibility
for the routine management of HSDP and for responding to requests from donors for information on the
status of implementation.
5.3    Role of the Donors
Aid coordination in Ethiopia is understood in terms of the planning and integration by Govern-
ment of external assistance into national development goals, strategies and programs. Government
ownership and management of programs is a prerequisite both for effective implementation and for
sustainability.
The Government established a framework for HSDP in a document presented to the Consultative
Group Meeting, held in Addis Ababa in December 1996. Within this framework, donors have worked
closely with the Central and Regional Governments in further preparing the program for external
financing. Donor participation has grown from ten to fourteen, and they have been involved in the two
Joint Donor Coordinated Technical Assistance Missions organized to date. Exposure to international
experience through such missions has been a capacity building experience for both the Regional and
Central health staff and at the same time has eliminated the burden on Government of numerous, separate
donor missions.
The future role of the donors is two-fold. They will have an on-going advisory role as participants
in the HSDP Joint Steering Committee meetings at the Central and Regional level throughout the life of
the program. As financiers, the donors will play an active role in the supervision of the program. The
purpose of supervision is to review progress and to address implementation problems in a timely manner,
whether the problems arise from internal or external reasons. For Ethiopia to benefit maximally from
donor supervision, the Government wishes to maintain the joint donor coordinated approach which has
been so fruitful in the preparation of the program. This will enable continued strengthening of the
momentum gathered in harmonizing appraisal of the program and in building capacity at Regional and
Central levels during preparation.
5.4   Program Implementation and Management
HSDP will be carried out by the line departments of the MOH and the Regional Health bureaus.
At the center, PPD will play an important coordinating, facilitating, and also implementing role. PPD is
being restructured into five teams to play its new role. Its management and staffing are being strengthened
so that it can play its intended role successfully. In particular, its head and the heads of three of the expert
teams, for planning and budgeting, program coordination and monitoring, and finance and procurement,
will be confirmed or appointed as a condition of credit effectiveness. Its professional staffing will be
expanded from around 15 to around 20 persons, and it will be endowed with additional equipment,
vehicles, etc. while its staff will undergo various types of training as appropriate.
5.4.1 Program supervision, review and planning
Program supervision
HSDP is a sector-wide program encompassing all health-related undertakings of the Government.
Therefore the nature of donor support and supervision will be different from project support which



Annex 5
Page 13 of 38
requires that details of the operation be spelled out and costed. The key for successful program support is
agreement on program objectives and targets and the process by which these objectives and targets will be
reached. In addition to the Ethiopian administration, additional bodies and institutions will be involved in
this process; their roles and responsibilities are presented in Table A5.3 on page 14.
The Central Secretariat (Planning and Projects Department/MOH) and the Regional Secretariats
(RHBs) have the primary responsibility for on-going supervision of program implementation. Supervision
of the program will occur at many different levels with different stakeholders. Woreda and Zonal health
staff will collate implementation data as well as monitorable indicators. Supervision methods and data to
be collected will include: implementation tracking; internal reporting; special studies and validation;
formal periodic reporting; and formal supervision.
Implementation tracking. Implementation tracking will be carried out by implementing bodies
and records maintained on an on-going basis.
Internal reporting. Internal reporting and consultations will be carried out on a regular basis
between the executing agencies (MOH and RHBs) and the implementing bodies that report to them. MOH
will take a proactive role to assist the weaker Regions in all aspects of HSDP, and especially
implementation, supervision, monitoring, planning and budget preparation.
Special studies and validation. At the health facility level, health workers may be engaged to carry
out small studies to investigate their own facility/community specific problems so that they can become
part of the solution. At the Regional and national level, short-term consultants will be engaged as needed
to research service delivery and other issues. Consultants will be engaged annually to carry out
independent and objective validation of HSDP performance.
Formalized periodic reporting. Implementation Progress Reports will be prepared by semi-
annually implementing agencies (RHBs and MOH with input from their constituencies). The HSDP
reporting cycle is presented in Table A5.4 on page 16. The Reports will contain:



Annex 5
Page 14 of 38
Table A5.3: Complementary Bodies and Institutions for Supervision of HSDP
Body/Institution                    Participation                                                  Purpose
Central Joint Steering  * PMO, MEDAC, MOF and MOH                     * Provide a forum where systemic issues affecting HSDP can be raised
by
Committee (CJSC)   * Representatives (resident level) of donors as     Government and the donors, discussed and action recommended if
necessary
observers as agreed in Annual Review meetings  * Endorse initial implementation arrangements and subsequent
amendments if
necessary
* Endorse annual consolidated work plans and amendments to them if
necessary
e Supervise and review implementation of HSDP on behalf of the
Government
Regional Steering    * Regional Council for Social and Economic Affairs,  * Provide a forum where systemic issues affecting HSDP can be raised
by the
region and the donors, discussed and action recommended if
necessary
Committee (RSJC)      RPEDB, RFB, RHB and RWUDB
* Representatives (resident level) of donors (or their   * Endorse annual work plans and amendments to them at regional
level if necessary
consultants) as observers as agreed in Annual  * Ensure timely and reliable reporting from the region to MOH and PMO
Review meetings; if donors are not present in a  * Supervise and review implementation of HSDP on behalf of the Region
particular region then NGOs can be represented in
the RJSC
Thematic Task Force   * MOH, its relevant departments and/or other    * Carry out specific tasks defined by CJSC, MOH, RSC or RHB
agencies
(TTF)               * Representatives of RSCs or RHBs as applicable
* Representatives of donors/consultants as applicable
* Other stakeholders as applicable



Annex 5
Page 15 of 38
Joint Supervision    * Consultants (foreign and local)               * Review progress and performance of HSDP
Mission
(JSM)              * Professional staff from financing institutions  * Review compliance with agreed financial and procurement procedures
* Review and assess effectiveness and impacts of HSDP implementation
* Identify possible constraints and propose corrective measures if necessary
* Carry out tasks for ARM as requested by them
Annual Review        PMO, MEDAC, MOF, MOH, RSCs and RHBs             * Maintain policy dialogue
Meeting
(ARM)              All participating donors (HQ level)              * Review HSDP in relation to the PAP and annual work plan
* Review progress in the health sector: access, quality, sustainability
* Review and discuss work plan for the coming fiscal years
* Resolve issues if any
* Assess TA needs and coordinate additional inputs if necessary
* Agree on the TOR and composition of Joint Supervision Mission(s) for the
coming fiscal years
* Enable representatives of donors to take decisions for the coming fiscal years
if necessary



Annex 5
Page 16 of 38
Table AS.4: HSDP Reporting Cycle
Jul  Aug Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar Apr  May Jun
Regional Progress Report
Data/information gathering                                                                     _ 
Report preparation                         VW =                    __= 
Preparation of Action Plan
RSC Review
Final report
Submission to CS
Central Progress Report                           _                     _
Data/information gathering                        _    _  =                          _         _ .
Report preparation                 _                    _fi
Preparation of Action Plan
Submission to CS                                       _
Consolidated Progress Report         _=_ 
Report Preparation
Independent validation
Special studies                                      _                .
Submission of report to CSC                            __|                         ___=
Dissemination of report         L_ r   ===
Financial Reports                                          __   _                                  _
Quarterly Reports                                      ____
Closing of the Accounts                       .                                                  ___
Audit Report Preparation          |                                                _T i_
Audit Report Submission



Annex 5
Page 17 of 38
* Expenditure data for the previous 6 months. The expenditure data are to be provided
in the same format and the same level of aggregation that was used in the Regions'
and the Center's HSDP Plans. This will facilitate comparison between the projected
and actual expenditures;
* Data on physical targets achieved in comparison to the targets set for the period and
plausible reasons for over- or under-achieving the targets;
* Procurement status report and revised procurement plan for the next 24 months;
* Performance coefficients (actual targets achieved divided by projected physical
targets for the period) will be calculated;
*  Issues and problems encountered in the course of program implementation will be
discussed;
* Time-bound action plan to redress these problems will be proposed by implementing
agencies;
* Issues and problems that cannot be resolved by the implementors, such as policy or
donor coordination related issues that require higher level intervention will be
brought to the attention of respective Steering Committees.
The Central Secretariat will provide guidance and technical assistance to the Regions
and Central Agencies in preparing their Progress Reports. Based on the submissions of these
reports, the Central Secretariat will prepare semi-annually a Consolidated Progress Report for the
Central Joint Steering Committee. The content of the Consolidated Progress Report will
aggregate all the elements listed above. In addition, it will:
- identify generic issues that can be redressed more effectively through concerted efforts
by all;
* identify good practices for dissemination;
* monitor relative strengths and weaknesses of the Regions and identify how the weaker
areas might be strengthened;
* identify key policy and coordination related issues that require higher level intervention
and propose appropriate interventions by the Central Steering Committee.
The Consolidated Progress Report submitted to the CJSC in December will cover
implementation progress from previous January to June, and Progress Report submitted in June
will cover from previous July to December period. Annual Review Reports submitted to CSC in
December of each year will cover the activities of the preceding fiscal year (July to June).
Formalized supervision.  Formal supervision will be carried out jointly by the
Government and the donors on a semi-annual basis and will focus on program strategies,
interventions and expenditures. The February/March mission will undertake an Annual Review
of HSDP; the September mission will review HSDP implementation progress. Each joint
Government-donor supervision mission will conclude with an agreement on a time-bound action
plan that will move HSDP implementation forward.
Annual Review
The purpose of the Annual Review is to take stock of how far the strategies and
interventions have taken the country toward its HSDP goals, to re-examine the objectives,
priorities and targets in light of greater information on health generated by the system, especially



Annex 5
Page 18 of 38
on its capacity for implementation. Against this background, a proposed annual work program
and budget for the following year will be reviewed. Annual Review is a joint donor-Government
exercise. All donors active in the health sector in Ethiopia are expected to participate in the
Annual Review along with the Government implementation bodies, the Ministry, central health
agencies, RHBs and, to the extent possible, lower units of Regions.
Annual Review Package. The Annual Review Package should contain the Progress
Reports and the Revised Regional and Central Plans. These revised plans will provide the
following additional data/information:
*  Monitorable indicators for the past year and a discussion of their implications for the
following year's work program;
*  Review of priorities and strategies in light of the past year's performance, as revealed by
performance coefficients for physical targets and expenditures, and monitorable
indicators;
*  Reports on special studies, including those at the school and community level, that
provide insight to problems encountered in implementation;
*  Updated work programs consisting of revised physical targets and procurement plans,
detailed expenditure projections for the following year and an indicative budget for the
following two years.
A Consolidated Plan will be prepared by the Central Secretariat, based on the
submissions by the RHBs, MOH and the Central Agencies. The Consolidated Plan should
incorporate all the elements listed above. In addition, it should also provide:
* Aggreeate monitorable indicators for the country as a whole;
* Independent validation of HSDP outcome in the Regions and at the Center; and
* Findings of special studies at the national level, undertaken to assess HSDP impact on
health and to investigate problem areas.
The HSDP planning and budgeting exercise must precede the budget call in January to
allow sufficient time for deliberations, review, consolidation at the center, and consultation with
the donors. Budget preparation, review, and consolidation will span over the period October-
December, whereas the budget call is made in January, setting the regional subsidy and Ministry
ceilings. Therefore, the Regional and Central plans will be prepared with contingency plans for
physical targets, work programs and budgets.  HSDP annual review is timed to allow
Government-donor consultations before the Government's budget preparation is completed. All
RHB offices will be encouraged to equip and train their staff and computerize their planning
and budgeting process as rapidly as possible so that last minute changes can be accommodated
with minimal time loss.
Annual Review Outcome. The outcome of the review mission will be (a) an agreed
work program and budget for the following fiscal year, and (b) reconfirnation or agreed
adjustments to HSDP priorities, strategies and nature of intervention.



Annex 5
Page 19 of 38
5.5 Procurement
5.5.1 Implementing Agencies
Central Level. MOH 's Planning and Project Department (PPD) will be responsible for
the procurement for the HSDP components handled by the Center and for the coordination of
international procurement for all Regions. PPD will facilitate program implementation at the
national level, provide the Regions with standardized designs and specifications for civil works,
and carry out international procurement (on its own or through agents such as PHARMID) on
behalf of the Regions. PPD has had previous experience of procurement under the IDA
financed Family Health Project and Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program (ERRP).
It is presently staffed with one procurement specialist.
PPD will establish a new Finance and Procurement Team with two procurement
specialists and other experienced implementation staff, also strengthen its existing Architectural
and Engineering Team, and continue to work with DACD on drug procurement.
Regional Level. The 11 Regions and administrations of the Federal Republic of
Ethiopia will be fully responsible for the implementation and supervision of the procurement
activities under HSDP. The RHBs will be the executing agencies for the Program at regional
level, with some of the implementation and supervision responsibilities passed on to zonal and
woreda health offices. The capacity of each region to execute and supervise procurement was
assessed by the Bank during appraisal. RHBs have agreed to count on MOH for international
competitive bidding (ICB) procurement of goods and drugs, and will have the option to contract
out procurement and supervision to procurement consultants.
Procurement packages for MOH were discussed and understandings reached at
negotiations. Those of the Regions will be compiled shortly, especially for the present fiscal
year.
MOH and regional procurement staff (two from most implementing agencies) received
initial training in a Bank- and ESAMI (Tanzania)- sponsored advanced procurement seminar in
Ethiopia in July 1998.
Procurement methods, thresholds, and prior review provisions are summarized in Table
A5.5.2 on page 26 and detailed below.
5.5.2 Procurement of Works
Civil works under HSDP will be largely decentralized. Each of the regions will conduct
its own procurement and will be responsible for the timely completion and supervision of the
works. Works consist of health facility rehabilitation, a large number of small new constructions
such as health units, offices and district hospitals estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$2 million each, and a small number of larger jobs especially the construction of five new
zonal hospitals.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) is expected to be suitable for new zonal
hospitals and perhaps for other contracts including a district hospital and health care units within
the same geographical area. Thus ICB will be used for contracts worth $2 million or more, with



Annex 5
Page 20 of 38
wide advertising to promote more competition. For contracts under ICB, domestic contractors
may be awarded a margin of preference of 7.5%. Procurement of contracts of $2,000,000 or
more will be subject to prior review by IDA. The large majority of works under the Program
will be carried out through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) (less than $2 million per
contract). Standard bid documents, specifications and dlesigns, approved by the Bank, will be
used throughout the Program. Contracts under NCB will be awarded in accordance with national
procurement regulations with a small number of changes to meet Bank guidelines. Procurement
actions under NCB will be subject to post-review, except that the first two contracts (for works
and goods) in each Region will be subject to IDA's prior review. Smaller works costing
$75,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $5 million, may be
procured on the basis of price quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors.
Simpler procurement procedures involving contract award to local communities may be used for
a number of small works costing US$75,000 or less and located in areas that are difficult to
access such as the mountainous areas of Oromiya and T'igray Regions. Simplified construction
methods and procedures will be used, as described in a manual of procedures to be approved by
IDA. Direct Contracting may be used only in exceptional cases such as extension of an existing
contract previously awarded through competitive bidding, and subject to IDA's prior agreement.
5.5.3 Procurement of Goods
Procurement of goods such as medical equipment, transport and sanitary vehicles,
motorcycles and other goods not available in Ethiopia vvill be grouped by MOH into packages
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more to the extent practicable, based on one year's procurement
needs, in order to assure maximum competition from foreign manufacturers and to avoid
building up stocks of undelivered equipment. Contracts of US$200,000 or more will be procured
through ICB. Under ICB, domestically manufactured goods may be granted a margin of
preference of 15% of the CIF price or CIP. The ICB packages for medical equipment will
include a sufficient stock of spare parts, service contracts, and, when feasible, training to
hospital staff in maintenance and care of equipment. It iis preferred that equipment be delivered
to the destination site and installed by the suppliers. Contracts for goods costing less than
US$100,000 may be procured through international shopping, up to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000.
Procurement of drugs, medical supplies, vaccines and contraceptives. International
procurement of these items will be carried out under ICB for contracts costing US$200,000 or
more. Contracts for goods of US$200,000 or more will be subject to prior review by IDA.
Limited International Bidding may be used for those drugs, medical supplies, vaccines and
contraceptives whose production is restricted to a few suppliers. LIB contracts will have a value
of less than US$500,000, up to an aggregate value of U3$5 million. ICB and LIB for these
items will be carried out by PHARMID, a specialized parastatal, in coordination with PPD.
National Competitive Bidding may be used to procure contracts for drugs and medical supplies
costing less than US$500,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$10 million. International
Shopping may be used to procure smaller contracts for drugs and medical supplies as mentioned
at the end of the previous paragraph.
Furniture and other goods, including drugs, available locally, with individual contracts
of less than US$200,000 and up to an aggregate amnount of US$15 million, will be procured by
the Regions under National Competitive Bidding from local suppliers, under national regulations



Annex 5
Page 21 of 38
with a few amendments to be acceptable under IDA Guidelines. Foreign bidders will also be
allowed to make offers. The services of LAPSO and UNICEF may be used to jumpstart
implementation in less developed regions such as Afar, Benshangul-Gumuz, Gambella and
Somali. Purchases will be limited to individual units of office equipment (one computer, one
printer etc.) and probably one vehicle, at the start of HSDP, and in any case to US$50,000 or less
per contract. National Shopping, with price offers from 3 or more qualified suppliers, may be
used for individual contracts less than US$30,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$3 million.
Direct Contracting may be used for (i) the extension of an existing (competitively bid) contract
for goods, (ii) the additional purchase from the original supplier of equipment, vehicles, and
spare parts for the purpose of standardization, or (iii) the purchase of proprietary equipment,
drugs, and medical supplies. Simplified purchasing procedures described in a manual of
procedures, may be used for goods procured under Community Participation procurement
method.
5.5.4  Procurement of Consulting Services
Consulting services by either local or international consultants are likely to be required
particularly at the early stages of HSDP. Various selection methods will be used depending on
the type and size of contract, and whether individual consultants or consulting firms will be used.
For both, clear Terms of Reference (TORs), including a well-defined transfer of skills or
capacity building component and performance indicators, will be drafted and will be subject to
IDA prior review. Quality- and cost-based selection of consultants will be used except as
provided otherwise. Recruitment of individual consultants, based on experience and
qualifications, may be carried out on individual contracts of less than $50,000. This recruitment
may be carried out by the RHBs alone as well as by MOH. Recruitment of consulting firms and
NGOs for long term contract management, supervision of works, auditing and other tasks will be
carried out in coordination with MOH. Assignments will be advertised in Development Business
and, if necessary, in specialized magazines. Requests for proposals will be sent to shortlisted
firms. Evaluation of firms will be based on technical factors with adequate weight given to the
price offer, and will include specific components of transfer of skills. Small assignments such as
AIDS dramatization and woman development in rural areas, may be awarded based on the
group's qualifications. The contract value will be less than US$50,000. Training contracts will
follow the same selection procedures used for consulting assignments, though in special cases
such as specialized courses, a particular institution may be designated . Sole source selection of
consultants may be made in exceptional cases, as provided for in the Guidelines and with IDA's
prior agreement.
5.5.5 Implementation Manuals
Operational manuals, describing standard procurement and disbursement procedures
acceptable to the Bank, will be used by the RHBs throughout the Program. A manual of
simplified procurement procedures for community participation, based on a similar ESDP model,
will be used by NGOs and communities at zonal and district (Woreda) level. Bank SBDs for the
procurement of goods, works and medical products will be used in all ICB contracts.



Annex 5
Page 22 of 38
5.5.6 Prior and Post-Review of Procurement
Contracts for works over US$2 million, contracts for goods over US$200,000, the first
two works and goods contracts in each Region, and requests for the use of direct contracting will
be subject to IDA's prior review. The review process would cover advertising of the General
Procurement Notice (GPN), Bank SBDs and specifications, tendering procedures, evaluation,
and contract signature. Manuals of procedures and NCB standard bid documents, design and
specifications will be used throughout the Program and will be approved by IDA before their
release. All other procurement will be subject to post-review of a representative sample of
contracts on a yearly basis. Third party verification of procurement actions at regional level may
be carried out and financed under the project. Information to be reviewed may include
compliance with procurement procedures, schedules of implementation, cost comparison and
contractual claims.
TOR for all consulting services and training contracts, and contracts for consulting
services beyond the thresholds of US$100,000 equivalent for both individual consultants and
consulting firms, will be subject to IDA'sprior review {(see table A5.5.2).
5.5.7 Procurement Schedules
Procurement under HSDP will be a complex activity requiring strategic planning and
monitoring skills. Each RHB, and possibly zonal offices, will be required to maintain bar charts
of the procurement activities under their administration. Delays in construction or delivery of
equipment will be immediately noted and contractors/ suppliers reminded of their obligations.
PPD will maintain consolidated schedules of the overall procurement process for coordination
and monitoring purposes. Preliminary implementation schedules for the ICB procurement of
transport and sanitary vehicles, drugs and civil works are shown in tables A5.5.4a-c.
5.5.8 Harmonization of Donors Procurement Procedures
HSDP has attracted the interest of a large number of donors presently supporting the
health sector in Ethiopia. Harmonization of procurement and financial management procedures
is feasible under the program and will be discussed with the donors as soon as financial
commitment to the program is defined. It is expected that some of the donors will agree on
common thresholds for procurement methods and reporting formats at the post review level, thus
reducing MOH's administrative burden. Donors may also agree on the use of standard
documents and procedures for advertising, evaluating, and awarding contracts.
5.5.9 Priority Actions for HSDP Procurement
The following actions will be taken by MOH and the regions prior to Program
implementation:
1.    Definition of roles, staffing, and responsibilities within the PPD in MOH for overall
management and technical coordination of procurement under HSDP.
2.    Determination of procurement capability by each Region, and option (own staff!
capacity building /contracting out) chosen for HSDP implementation and supervision.



Annex 5
Page 23 of 38
3.    Determination of arrangements for post - review of procurement actions, reporting,
monitoring and transmission of documents to IDA for prior review.
4.    Selection of staff (2 for each Region) to participate at the Bank/ESAMI procurement
management seminar to be held in Ethiopia.
5.    Determination of bid packages required for the first year (1998/99) and if possible for
the whole remainder of the first period of HSDP.
6.    Determination of stock available and packages for ICB procurement of drugs and
pharmaceutical products. Determination of packages for NCB drugs procurement (if any).
7.    Completion of standard design, drawings and specifications for civil works and
equipment to be procured under HSDP. Preparation of standard bid documents and contract for
NCB procurement. Drafting of manual of procurement and financial procedures for use of
RHBs.
8.    Drafting of implementation schedules for consulting services, procurement of goods
and works for both foreign and national procurement, for 1998/99 and if possible beyond. MOH
with regions to prepare an integrated schedule of international procurement for the whole 5
years Program.
9.    Publishing of GPN on Development Business for ICB of works, goods and consulting
services to be procured within one year from publication
10.   Establishment of technical and reference libraries at each RHB. Each bureau to have a
full set of national financial regulations for procurement, standard national SBDs and contracts,
manuals of procedures and specifications; IDA procurement guidelines, SBDs and copy of
credit agreement, etc.



Annex 5
Page 24 of 38
Annex 5.5.1
Assessment of Procurement Capability of the MOH and Regions
This preliminary assessment (Table A5.5.1 on page 25) is based on interviews with
representatives of the Regional Bureaus of the Health and Education Ministries; interviews with
MOH and MOE representatives; records of previous procurement experience with donors,
experience from particular IDA projects, and, finally, an analysis of staffing and programs
described in the Five Year Development Plans for the Health and Education Programs.
The analysis is not intended to be conclusive and is subject to change based on the
expected reinforcement of the procurement capacity of each Bureau through recruitment of
staff, capacity building and transfer of personnel.  The analysis is also not indicative of the
expected capability of implementation of the Region through the use of technical assistance and
contracting out of management / supervision activities.
Finally the analysis indicates the capability of the Region/Center in consideration of the
expected volume of work under HSDP, assumed responsibilities and takes into account the
geographical area of procurement and supervision activities. The responsibilities of the Center
are obviously higher than any Region and will require maximum support.
In the table, A and B are satisfactory levels for HSDP implementation; C and D are
unsatisfactory and need strengthening or some form of procurement assistance.



Annex 5
Page 25 of 38
Table A5.5.1 Assessment of Procurement Capacity in the Regions and MOH
REGIONS      Staffing   Works    Works    Goods    Goods        Staffing   Additional  Supervision   Overall  Action
(Overall)  (NCB)  (Supervision)  (ICB)    (NCB)   (Number of    Staffing    (recomm.  Assessment  required
specialists)    Required    option)
O=own       C-D      U=urgent
T=TA    (Insufficient)   M= med.
term
CENTER            C        A         C         B         A           1          2-3       O/TA         C          U
ADDIS ABABA       A        A         A         C         A          2            1          0          B          M
AFAR              D        C         D         D         C                       2         TA          D          U
AMHARA            B        A         B         C         A           I           1          0          B
BENSHINGUI-       C        B         C         D         B                       2         TA          C          M
GUMUZ
DIRE DAWA         B        B         B         C         A           1           1          0          B
GAMBELLA          C        C         C         D         B                       2         TA          C          M
HARARE            B        A         B         C         A           1           1          0          B
OROMYA            B        B         C         C         A                      2-3       O/TA         C          U
SOMALI            D        C         D         D         C                       2         TA          D          U
SOUTHERN          B        B         C         C         B                       3        O/TA         C          U
STATES
TIGRAY            B        C         C         C         B                       2        O/TA         C          U



Annex 5
Page 26 of 38
TABLE A5.5.2
Expected Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(in US$ equivalent)
Expenditures  Contract                                      PRIOR      POST
Category    Value    ICB   NCB   Shopping    Com01       REVIEW    REVIEW
(USS)                           Participation
1. Works                                              _
>1.5
millions    X                                   X
>0.05             X                            X          X
millions                                      (first 3
contracts!
Region
<0.05                     X          X                    X
m illions__ _ _         __ _ ___ _                           _ _ _
2. Goods   _                 _       _     -
>200,000    X   _                                X
<200,000           X                      _                X
<50,000                    X          X                    X
<30,000                    X  -                            X
3. Services
(Individuals)  >50,000                            _           X
<50,000                       _                            X
(Consulting
Firms)                                   _
>100,000  _____x
<100,000                    X x                            x



Annex 5
Page 27 of 38
TABLE A5.5.3
iasic Procurmtent DocumentationS forProgram Implementtionl
(IDA documentsa       in diskttes)
Manualof procuirifiintandfinancial proced'uresforoperational.use ;
Manul of procepduresJfCommnnityt  Picipation  otrks
Staidard Bid d msS.forNC  civil wrk  MO)orIA  SBDs for smaller wors 
St    dBiddocumentsifor prctuent of works (IDA)
Standar Biddcmet forpourmn ofsmaller works (DA
ModelBiddocumnents forcomi tartip          works (IA )
Stanidd Bid dociuetsifor procurement of goods (IDA)
Standardbid doacuments fortheprourmnet tof phamcuical (IDA)          -0
Standard, Request ]for propsal complex- timhe based assipMgnet(IA
Standard Request for Propos  lump u    r      D
SmllAssipAgnments time-ebased pamets
Smiill ssigrets lump-sum pants



Annex 5
Page 28 of 38
TABLE A5.5.4.a
Indicative Procurement Schedule
Transport and Sanitation Vehicles - Motorcycles under ICB
Activities    Jun  July  Au  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sept  Ave.
______  ______        ~~~days
1   Dev. Business GPN          =    =              _                                                            90
2   Prepare BDs.         =         -                                                                            60
3    No Objection        =    _=_        _____                                                                  20
4   Local Advertis.                      =    -                                                                 60
5   Issue BDs            =                                                                                      60
6   Bid opening                                         *                                                       0
7   Bid evaluation                                                                                              30
8   Obtain N.O.          =    = =       =    =     =    =                                                       20
9   Contract signing                              _                                                             30
10   Open L/C            =    =     _                                                                           30
11   Shipping                                                                           -           -   _      90
12  Inland delivery                                                                                  -          30
13   Start of use                                                                                          =    15



Annex 5
Page 29 of 38
TABLE A5.5.4.b
Indicative Procurement Schedule
Drugs and Consumables - International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
Activities             Jun   Jul  Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec  Jan   Feb   Ma   Apr   Ma   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   No.
___________________________________             _____                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~days
I      Dev. Business GPN                          _     _ -                                                                                                       90
2       Prepare BDs.                       -      _     -                                                                                                         90
3       Obtain N.O.                                                                                                                                               20
4       Local Advertis.                                                                                                                                           60
4       Issue BDs                                                                                                                                                 60
5       Bid opening                                                        _                                                                                       0
6       Bid evaluation                                                                                                                                            120
7       Obtain N.O.                                                                                                                                               20
8       Contract signing                                                                                                                                          30
9       Open L/C                                                                                                                                                  30
10      Shipping                                                                                                               -     -   -                        90
11      Inland delivery                                                                                                                                           30
12      Use of goods                                                                                                                                    =          15



Annex 5
Page 30 of 38
TABLE A5.5.4.c
Indicative Procurement Schedule
Civil Works - International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
Activities       Jun   Jul  Au   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec  Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr    Ma   Jun   Jul    Aug   Sep/   Nov/  Jan/    Mz/    No.
____                               _____         ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~        ~~~Oct   Dec   Feb  Apr    Day
1    Dev. Business GPN                                 -                                                  -90
2  Prepare BDs.                     -                                                                                      _         -                       90
3    Obtain N.O.                                                                                                                                             30
4    Local Advertis.                                                                                                                                         30
4    Issue BDs                =                                                                                                                              60
5    Bid opening                      _                                                                                                                       0
6    Bid evaluation                                                                                                                                          60-
____             ______                            _____   _____   ______   ______  ~~~~~~~~~~~120
7    Obtain N.O.             _               _                                                                                                               20
8    Contract signing                                                     - =  =                                                                             30
9    Mobilization                       1            4                 ll=                                                                 1      l30
10   Contractual period                 j =                                                                          -          - =                          180



Annex 5
Page 31 of 38
Table A5.5.5: Phasing of Procurement Activities/ National Competitive Bidding
Phasing of Procurement Activities (in Months)
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 11 12113 14115116117 18119120121122 23 24
CIVIL WORKS_______________________=
Site selections
Site acquisition 1@                     
Site preparation__ l___________________
Sketch plans 1l                     
Final plans   ___________________=
Preparation/Tender docs
Advertise/Invitation to bid
Bid evaluation
Contract negotiations and awar
Contractor mobilization|delivery
Construction
Commissioning                                                                                        _
Final payments________ _____________
EQUILPMENT AND FURNITURE                                             
Specifications/lists
Preparation/Tender docs
Advertise/Invitation to bid
Bid evaluation
Contract award/signing
Prdeltive  elvryadditibto
|DRUGS AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES                                            _ ___________
Specifications    =       |    LIII1 1.                                   
Preparation/Tender docs                                                   =___=___=_=
Advertise/invitation to bid 7              !                     __               _==___=_=
Bid evaluation7                   L    !   !III_____          _____=
Contract award/signing                                         ______                   _     __ __=
Production/delivery                                    r       ___=_____                                 _=
DistributionIIII                             IIIII                    ______                   ___1 
VIVEHICLESIIIIr       f                                        I      I       __________
| Specifications                                                        _________ __
Preparation/Tender docs||III1T                                   T _=__==_____ 
Advertise/invitation to bid            lLI                       T_=__==_____ 
Bid evaluationIIIIT_=___=____ 
Contract award/signing                                   r T_=___=____ 
Delivery                                               _ I       IC_=___=___ __=



Annex 5
Page 32 of 38
5.6    Disbursement, Accounting, and Financial Management
Expenditure projections prepared by the Regions and the Center are based on their
respective physical targets for each year, adjusted by the realism of the procurement plan.
Annually, the Regions and the Center will consolidate these projections into an overall
disbursement schedule for HSDP.
Financial administration of the HSDP will be in accordance with the provisions of the
Financial Administration Proclamation No. 57/1996, where Aid in Kind is defined as any
assistance received by the Federal Government under a bilateral or multi lateral agreement, or
from other sources, that is received in the form of goods or services or any other form than money.
All such aid in kind shall be recorded in the Consolidated Fund. There shall be one Consolidated
Fund and it shall be maintained and administered by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry may
open, in the name of any public body, bank accounts for the deposit of public money and such
accounts shall form part of the Consolidated Fund.
The proclamation states that no disbursements shall be made out of the consolidated Fund
without the prior authorization of the council of peoples' representatives in the form of an
appropriation, and no commitment of expenditures can be incurred from an appropriation without
the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance shall establish the procedures to
be followed and the form in which records for the control of financial commitments chargeable to
each budgetary item will be registered and the head of the public body shall maintain the records
for the central or financial commitments chargeable to each budgetary item.
Under HSDP, MOH and RHB financial accounting and management systems will be
improved and computerized to facilitate proper monitoring of accounts and accurate reporting of
payments by financial source, implementing agency, and category. This should contribute to
HSDP's long-term goal of having all donors use Government channels for the flow of program
funds and reporting. Donors have agreed to work together to harmonize the financial accounting
and management systems while testing their feasibility.
As shown in Figure A5.6 below, the Government channel for its own funds uses the
Ministry of Finance at the center and the Regional Finance Bureaus in each Region.



Annex 5
Page 33 of 38
Figure A5.6: Government Channels for Disbursement from the Consolidated Fund
| Consolidated           Miisr oFL
Regional                Regional
Finance              Health Bureau
I
Zonal Finance        [ Zonal Health
Department             Department
Woreda Health
Woreda Finance              Office
Following Government procedures MOF will mobilize the consolidated fund after its
approval by the Council of Peoples Representatives. MOF will transfer funds according to the
budget appropriation to the Ministry of Health Account and also to Regional Finance Bureau. The
Regional Finance Bureau will disburse the funds to the Regional Health Bureau as well as to the
Zonal Finance Department; and the Zonal Finance Department will disburse fund to the Woreda
Finance office.
Several donors are expected to use the Government's channel to fund HSDP activities,
and MOF will have full responsibility for these donor funds, consistent with the principle of
consolidated funds. A memorandum of understanding will be signed between the central
Government and the Regional states to establish the responsibility of each Regional Steering
Committee, Finance and Health Bureau for accountability and reporting as well as audit
requirements. Several donors, including IDA, will use this channel to flow funds for the
program's new activities. This is not the same as pooling, however, since IDA's funds will be
separately tracked through a special account and other donors' funds also through transaction
coding etc.
Three other funding channels currently used by donors will be accommodated for the
interim period to allow them to track their funds to the specific expenditure item; these include:
*  the sector ministry channel, through special accounts under the control of the latter;
* the regional institution channel, through accounts opened under regional
responsibility; and
*  the donors' own channel for procurement and delivery of goods and services.



Annex 5
Page 34 of 38
Disbursement of IDA Funds.
Disbursements from IDA will be made on thie basis of incurred eligible expenditures.
IDA will make advance disbursement from the proceeds of the Credit by depositing into a
Government-operated Special Account to expedite program implementation. The advance to a
Special Account is to be used by the Government to finance IDA's share of program
expenditures under the Credit. Another acceptable method of withdrawing funds from the Credit
is the direct payment method, involving direct payments from the Credit to a third party for
works, goods, and services upon the Government's request. Payments may also be made to a
commercial bank for expenditures against IDA special commitments covering a commercial
bank's Letter of Credit. IDA's Disbursement Letter stipulates a minimum application value for
direct payment and special commitment procedures.
HSDP will use a simplified Special Account disbursement procedure which allows
decentralized program implementation. The Government will open a Special Account in its
National Bank. The Special Account will be operated by the designated officials of the
Counterpart Funds Unit (CFU) of the MOF. Upon Credit effectiveness, the CFU will submit a
withdrawal application for an initial deposit to the Special Account, drawn from the IDA Credit,
in the amount agreed to in the DCA. Replenishment of funds from IDA to the Special Account
will be made upon evidence of satisfactory utilization of the advance, reflected in SOEs and/or
on full documentation for payments above the SOE thresholds.  Replenishment applications
should be submitted regularly - ideally every month but not exceeding three month intervals. If
ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the Special Account, the Borrower will
be obligated to refund the same.  If the Special Account remains inactive for more than six
months, the Borrower may be requested to refund to IDA amounts advanced to the SA.
In each of the Regions and in the MOH a Project Account will be opened. The CFU will
make an initial advance into each account to cover four months of expected expenditures, based
on the approved annual work program and budget. These Project Accounts will be replenished by
the CFU by drawing funds from the Special Account at the request of the respective RHBs and
the MOH. Replenishment requests from the Regions and MOH will be on a SOE or full
documentation basis. The Project Accounts must be used only for advances and replenishments
of funds coming from the Credit and for effecting payments against IDA's share of the financing.
The CFU is responsible for making appropriate arrangements for the opening of the
Project Accounts in the Regions and at MOH, and for monitoring the proper use of the advances.
The Unit will also assist the regional Bureaus to establish proper systems for accounting for the
usage of the advances and for submitting regular replenishment applications for the Project
Accounts.
Accounting and Reporting
A common reporting system and set of formats will be sought for the different funding
channels and mechanisms.
Regional Health Bureaus will assume responsibility for financial management,
accounting and reporting for regionally executed parts of the program. They will collect the



Annex 5
Page 35 of 38
necessary information and report to the Central Joint Steering Committee through the Regional
Steering Committee on a quarterly basis. Their reports will contain information and analysis of
both expenditure data and physical progress for the reporting period and cumulative data.
Similarly, the Ministry of Health will report quarterly to the Central Joint Steering Committee for
centrally implemented parts of the program.  These quarterly financial and physical
implementation progress reports (using agreed-upon budget execution report formats) will form
the basis for replenishment of special accounts.
The Central Secretariat will prepare and compile expenditure and progress reports, while
the Ministry of Finance assumes responsibility for periodic consolidation and reporting on the
flow of funds and fund balances. In particular, reporting on the treasury transactions will be the
responsibility of the Regional Finance Bureaus through the Ministry of Finance. The Central
Secretariat will compile the program reports (both reports from the Ministry of Finance and
implementing agencies) and produce final reports in an agreed format.
As a sector program, all funds related to HSDP will be audited annually by an
independent auditor. Following current Government practice, the Office of the Auditor General
(OAG) may be the independent auditor. Although the designated auditor may sub-contract part
or parts of the audits to other qualified auditors, it will retain the overall responsibility in order to
prevent fragmentation of the program audits. A single annual audit report for the HSDP will be
issued by the designated auditor and submitted to the CJSC and the donors not later than six
months after the end of each financial year. The Government will formally appoint an
independent auditor for HSDP, on a multi-year arrangement and under terms of reference
mutually acceptable to all financiers.
5.7    Monitoring and Evaluation
HSDP's monitoring and evaluation procedures are based on MEDAC's October 1997
guidelines for monitoring externally funded projects/program. These guidelines outline the
procedures for monitoring national and regional programs and define the roles of the Center and
the Regional Planning Bureaus in the monitoring process. Key characteristics of HSDP's
monitoring and evaluation procedures are that they:
* are an integral part of the existing health management information system;
* strive to maintain a balanced focus on both production of reliable and valid
information and dissemination of this information for use in decision-making; and
* are iterative in nature with targets adjusted on the basis of implementation results.
In addition, HSDP's procedures include the development of indicators of varying levels of
complexity (inputs, processes, outputs, and outcomes have been developed).
Organizational arrangements
The Central and Regional Steering Committee secretariats will monitor progress in
program implementation using physical targets established for each component and evaluate
results based on a selected set of indicators of health system outputs and health status outcomes.
Based on regular progress reports and periodic evaluation studies (to be further organized



Annex 5
Page 36 of 38
following the guidance of the central secretariat), tilmely decisions will be made to minimize
constraints in the process of implementation.
Monitoring of the SDPs will be based on quarterly and semi-annual monitoring and
reporting cycles. To facilitate the use of information in decision making, all reports will present
cumulative information for a full year. The annual plans to which achievements are compared will
also be presented in the reports in a summarized form to facilitate the assessment of performance.
The quarterly reports need to focus on efficiency of implementation and its main contents
will be progress made in the production of planned outputs, implementation of activities,
utilization of inputs, as well as information on actual expenditure (both capital and recurrent)
during the reporting period. The responsibility for quarterly report and monitoring is with that of
the implementing and supervising institutions.
The role of the semi-annual monitoring and reports is to provide information on the effects
and impact of implementation to all stakeholders, including external funding agencies. It will
focus on outputs and indicators at component and program levels, with the first semi-annual report
describing each component's progress and the second semi-annual report giving information on
program performance and progress in relation to goals and core indicators. Each region will
prepare semi-annual progress reports and action plans for addressing issues for the review by the
Regional Steering Committee. The Central Secretariat will review and advise on the progress
reports and action plans prepared by the Regions and submit consolidated reports for the Central
Joint Steering Committee's consideration. As need arises, the progress report may be supple-
mented by special studies to capture qualitative aspects.
A review process provides an important opportunity for stakeholders to take stock, reflect
on the whole program, exchange views and learn from experience, with a view to problem-solving
and possible reorientation of the program. The CJSC will be responsible for arranging annual
joint review meetings. The preparation must include writing of terms of reference, recruitment of
a review team and making available background documents for the review mission. The most
important assessment activity of the mission will be the functioning of the monitoring system,
sustainability of the program and identification of needs such as technical assistance, and in-depth
study of a problem or program evaluations.
Finally, occasional impartial and independent evaluations will support monitoring and
reviews. The preparation for the review mission could be similar to that of the review process but
must be done jointly with donors. The results of reviews and evaluations will be appropriately
disseminated to all stakeholders in a timely fashion.
Zones, woredas and health facilities in generall, and zones and health facilities in particular
are already involved in the collection of data. The data are compiled at zonal and regional levels
and transferred to central level (MOH) for processing, which is time-consuming and does not
provide the opportunity to utilize the data for monitoring HSDP's progress. Consequently, regions
will be supported and encouraged to create data processing and analysis capabilities at zonal,
woreda and in few instances at facility levels where the findings would become immediately
useful.
A monitoring and evaluation donor harmonization study was prepared in May, 1998 by
international consultants. It suggests reporting formats and procedures that could be coordinated



Annex 5
Page 37 of 38
among donors in order to minimize the government's reporting burden while at the same time
addressing donors need for tracking HSDP performance. This report is currently being reviewed
and discussed by donors.
Key indicators
The HSDP will use three sets of indicators to monitor program implementation:
*  core indicators at national level will enable program management to assess the sector wide
performance during implementation and will constitute the basis for making regional
comparisons. This set of indicators will include the impact and outcome indicators mentioned
in Annex 6, plus component-specific indicators, as proposed by the appraisal mission in
Annex 1.
*  regional level indicators may be added by each region to enable regional steering committees
to assess the sector's performance within the regional context and take into account regional
issues and specificity in the implementation process.
e  finally operation level (i.e., component-specific) indicators will be needed for the day-to-day
management of the program; indicators useful for the management of existing vertical
programs fit within this category and will be incorporated into monitoring requirements at
local levels as more integrated PHC service delivery is provided.
MEDAC with HSDP partners will organize a mid-term evaluation in the third year of
HSDP and a terminal evaluation.



Annex 5
Page 38 of 38
Table A5.5.6
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be fiinanced in each Category.
Amount of the Credit
Allocated (Expressed in  % of Expenditures
Category              SDR eguivalent)        To be Financed
(1)   Works, drugs, medical   Up to 26,300,000 in the   100% of foreign
supplies, vaccines,   aggregate for FY98/99,  expenditures and 90% of
contraceptives, furniture, and thereafter, such  local expenditures for
equipment, vehicles,    amount as may be     works, drugs, medical
materials, and other  allocated for each FY by  supplies, vaccines,
goods, consultants'   the Association        contraceptives, furniture,
services, training and                       vehicles, materials, and
incremental operating                        equipment, and other
costs for Subprograms                        goods, and 100% for
consultants' services,
training and incremental
operating costs, or such
other percentage as the
Association may
determine from time to
time.
(2)   Unallocated            48,800,000
Total                 75,100.000



Annex 6
Page 1 of3
Key Monitoring Indicators
Selected indicators related to impact and outcome of the HSDP activities during the first
five years are indicated in the table below:
Table A6.1 Monitorable Impact and Outcome Indicators of HSDP
Indicator                          1997         Goal (2002)
Impact
Life expectancy at birth                             52             55-60
Population growth rate (percentage)                  2.9            2.5-2.7
Matemal mortality rate per 100,000 live births     500-700         450-500
Infant mortality rate per 1,000 live births        110-128          90-95
Outcomes
PHC service coverage (percentage)                     45            55-60
Contraceptive usage (percentage)                      8             15-20
Immunization coverage, DPT3 (percentage)              67            70-80
Source: MOH.
Indicators proposed for annual reviews, beginning in 1998/99 are the following:
Indicator Category              Detailed Indicators                Source of Data
Proportion of vacancies in crucial  *  PPD posts,                PPD Report
areas of service and management  *  Procurement coordinators
are filled                          (central and regional)
*  Financial management based
on recommendations of the
financial management study
Proportion of  planned human  Focusing on                        Health  Services and  Training
resources trained  - total and  *  health officers               Department Report
disaggregated by gender         *  junior midwives
*  primary health workers
Budget allocation according to  Disaggregated into:              *   Budget        Proclamation
HSDP   subject  to  financial  *  total                              (Negarit Gazetta)
sustainability                  *  recurrent and capital         *  MOF Report
*  PHC share                    *  RHB reports
*  relative  shares  of drugs:  *  MOH    finance   Division
.                         salary: other expenditures      Report
Actual flows of funds from                                       *  MOF Report
government treasury and donors                                   *  RHB reports
are according to plan (6 month                                   *  MOH    finance   Division
figures)                                                             Report
Planned guidelines, standards,  *  DHs and PHCUs standards    *  PPD Report
strategies finalized and approved   *  Equipment maintenance plan  *  Health Services Department
by the Government                   of action                    *  Health Learning materials
*  Urban services               *  DACD



Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
*  IEC strategy
*  Health Care Financing
Strategy
*  Drug Law
*  Equipment, furniture (HC),   a  Procurement Unit of MOH
Proportion of planned             and drugs contracts signed    *  PPD/RHBs
procurement activities underway   DH tender documents ready
Proportion of planned health   *  Nomadic population study    *  Reports of various agencies
service studies for 1998/99       (among others)             *  PPD/RHBs
started and completed
%  of functioning  equipment                                 *  RHB reports
(based on inventory in 1998/99)                              *  MOH report
*  NSEC
% availability of most important                             RHB reports
drugs in stock in sample health
centers
Proportion of health facilities                              MOH/RHB reports
reporting on time
Immunization coverage         DPT3                           Family   Health   reportlRHB
reports
A more complete list of monitorable indicators has been developed for each
HSDP component and is presented in Annex 1 (as part of the logframe analysis). MOH
has agreed to discuss these indicators with the regions and to use them as much as
possible.
The corresponding baseline and target impact and outcome indicators for each of
the nine regional states and two administrative councils are presented in Tables A6.2 and
A6.3 below. The baseline indicators demonstrate the heterogeneous health status
prevailing in the country. Reducing the range of target indicators by preferentially
supporting regions with the least favorable indicators will contribute to improving the
equity in the delivery of health services and the overall health status of the population



Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
Table A6.2 Impact indicators by region
IMR               U5MR               MMR                    Life Expectancy
Baseline  Target  Baseline  Target  Baseline     Target      Baseline   Target
Tigray                  123      80       181      110         700        500       49.4    55.0
Afar                    118               174                  700              53.1/47.0
Amhara                  116               170             500-1000
Oromiya                 118               173                  600                  50.4
Somali                  120      85                        500-700    450-500  56.2/52.9   59.0/
Benishul-Gumuz          139     100       206                  750        500       46.8
SNNPR                   128     110       189      139                              48.6
Gambela                  99               142                                       54.2
Addis Ababa             78       50       108                  566        300  56.6/60.3
Harari                  113               166                  700                  51.4
Dire Dawa               115      90       168                  700        450       51.0    55.0
Note: for Life expectancy at birth, when two figures are given, the first one correspond to males, the
second to females.
Table A6.3 Outcome indicators by region
Health Services Coverage    EPI coverage       Contraceptive Prevalence
Rate
Baseline     Target     Baseline    Target    Baseline       Target
Tigray                    46.4        65.0         80.0     90.0          13.2         38.0
Afar                      11.1        29.6                                 3.4         40.0
Amhara                    37.0        55.0         73.0     80.0           7.4         21.0
Oromiya                   42.0        52.0
Somali                    25.0        40.0         11.0     40.0
Benishangul-Gumuz         41.0        60.0         58.0     80.0
SNNPR                     37.0        55.0         80.0     90.0           7.5         15.0
Gambela
Addis Ababa               75.0        85.0         97.0     99.0          32.0         50.0
Harari                    62.0        78.0                                18.0         45.0
Dire Dawa                 86.4                                            30.0         50.0
Note: EPI coverage in some cases only refers to DPT3 coverage.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
Health Sector Development Program
Program Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Program Budget (US$000)                    Planned                    Actual
(At final PCD stage)       $890,000
(Bank $698,000)
(TF $192,000)
plus donor
financing of
mission members
B. Program Schedule                           Planned                    Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the program                                          7
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)         10/ 20 /1997               10/20/1997
Appraisal mission departure                 5 /16 /1998                5/16/1998
Negotiations                                7/23 /1998                   7/23/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness  |12/ 15/1998
Supervision Schedule
* Annual Government-donor
review                                    02-03/99
Prepared by: Ministry of Health and Regional Health Bureaus
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant (Japan)
The Bank team who worked on the program:
Name                            Specialty
David Berk                      Lead Specialist HD, Team Leader     AFTH4
Sidi Boubacar                   Legal Counsel                       LEGAF
Richard James                   Financial Analyst, Implementation   ECSIN
Gebreselassie Okubagzhi         Social Sector Specialist (physician)  AFMET
Christine Pena                  Economist, M & E] and Research      AFTH4
Francesco Samo                  Procurement Specialist              AFTS1
Iraj Talai                      Implementation Specialist, Financial    AFTS1
Management
Paul Vandenheede                Senior Disbursement Officer         LOAAF
Paul Davis                      Medical Equipment Specialist,       Bank Consultant
Facilities Rehabilitation and Expansion
Carin Lenngren Martin           Architect, Facilities Rehabilitation and  Bank Consultant
Expansion
Michael Porter                  Senior Health Specialist (physician),    Bank Consultant
Service Delivery/Quality



Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
The extended team included:
Pap Williams                    Health Specialist, Team Leader         AFDB
Adam Lagerstedt                 Health Specialist, Facilities Rehabilitation   SIDA
and Expansion
Arne Monsen                     Architect, Facilities Rehabilitation and  AFDB
Expansion
Nevio Zagaria                   Health Specialist (physician), Service  Italy
Delivery/Quality
Akiko Matsuyama                 Anthropologist, Service Delivery/Quality   JICA
Sigrun Mogedal                  Health Specialist (physician), Service  NORAD
Delivery/Quality
Gunnar Bjune                    Health Specialist (physician), Service  NORAD
Delivery/Quality
Marit Berggrav                  Health Specialist, Service Delivery/Quality  NORAD
Pal Jareg                       Health Specialist (physician), Service  NORAD
Delivery/Quality
Delanyo Dovlo                   Health Specialist (physician), Human   UNDP/WHO
Resources
Kyllike Christensson            Health Specialist (midwife), Human     SIDA
Resources
Yujiro Handa                    Health Specialist (physician), Human   JICA
Resources
Yayehyirad Kitaw                Health Specialist (physician), Human   UNDP/WHO
Resources
Robert Verhage                  Pharmacist, Pharmaceuticals            Netherlands
Erik Schouten                   Physician, Pharmaceuticals             Netherlands
Opia Mensah Kumah              IEC Specialist, IEC                     UNFPA
Barnabas Yisa                   IEC Specialist, IEC                    UNFPA
Colette Dehlot                  Gender Specialist, Gender Issues       UNDP/WHO
Kayode Oyegbite                 Management Specialist, Management/MIS   UNICEF
Agne Andersson                  Economist/Public Administration,       SIDA
Monitoring and Evaluation
Daniel Kraushaar                Economist, Health Financing            USAID
Matthew Jowett                  Health Economist, Economic Analysis    Irish Aid
Ibukun Ogunbekun                Health Financing                       AFDB
Stephen Lister                  Implementation, Capacity building      DflD



Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
Oualitv Assurance Team
Lead Adviser:
Ian Morris - Public Health Specialist, SASPH
Peer Reviewers:
Julie Mclaughlin - Public Health Specialist, AFTHI
Ed Elmendorf - Lead Specialist HNP, Africa Region



Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
Health Sector Development Program
Documents in the Program File
A. Program Action Plan - July 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments/Mission Reports
B. I   Identification (October-November 1997)
B. 1.1  Technical Reports
*  First Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Facility Expansion and
Rehabilitation,1997.
*  First Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Quality of Services, 1997.
*  First Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Pharmaceuticals, 1997.
*  First Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Human Resource Development,
1997
-  First Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Information, Health and
Communication (IEC), 1997.
*  First Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Monitoring, Evaluation, and
Applied research. 1997.
*  First Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Management and Management
Information System, 1997.
*  First Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Gender, 1997.
*  First Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Health Finance, 1997.
B. 1.2  First Joint Donor Mission Aide-memoire with attachments
B. 1.3  Technical comments on the Central and Regional plans, 1997.
B.2   Pre-Appraisal (February-March 1998)
B.2.1  Technical Reports
* Second Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Facility Expansion and
Rehabilitation, 1998.
* Second Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Economic Analysis, 1998.
B.2.2  Second Joint Donor TA Mission Aide-Memoire with attachments
B.2.3  Technical comments on the Central and Regional plans, 1998
B.3    Appraisal (May-June 1998)
B.3.1  Technical Reports



Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
* Third Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Reports on Facility Expansion, 1998.
* Third Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Medical Equipment
Maintenance, 1998.
* Third Joint Donor TA Mission Technical Report on Economic Analysis, 1998.
B.3.2 Third Joint Donor TA Mission Aide-Memoire with attachments
B.3.3  Technical Discussions/Post Appraisal (July 1998)
* Technical Discussions Mission Report on Equipment Maintenance
* Technical Discussions Mission Report on Facility Expansion and Rehabilitation
Other Bank Assessments
B.4   Social Sector Note No. 18680-ET dated February 27, 1998.
B.5   Country Assistance Strategy, No. 17009-ET dated August 19, 1997.
B.6   Public Expenditure Review, No. 16593-ET dated November 26, 1997.
C. Other
C. 1. Government Health Sector Development Program (HSDP) Plans (1997 and 1998)
*  Center's Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 E.C.), 1997 and 1998.
*  Revised Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 B.C.): Tigray Region, 1997 and 1998.
*  Revised Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 E.C.): Afar Region, 1997 and 1998.
*  Revised Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 E.C.): Amhara Region, 1997 and 1998.
*  Revised Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 E.C.): Oromia Region, 1997 and 1998.
*  Revised Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 E.C.): Somali Region, 1997 and 1998.
*  Revised Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 E.C.): Southern People's Region, 1997 and
1998.
*  Revised Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 E.C.): Gambella Region, 1997 and 1998.
*  Revised Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 E.C.): Harari Region, 1997 and 1998.
*  Revised Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 E.C.): Region 14, 1997 and 1998.
*  Revised Five-Year HSDP (1990-1994 E.C.): Dire Dawa, 1997 and 1998.
C.2   Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) Reports. Part I (August 1996)
*  Household Demand for Health and Nutrition (Rural Survey). PHRD Study No. 2.a,
1996.
*  Household Demand for Health and Nutrition (HICE-WMS). PHRD Study No. 2.b,
1996.
*  Burden of Disease. PHRD Study No. 3, 1996.
+  Demographic Analysis and Population Projections. PHRD Study No. 4, 1996.
*  Cost and Financing of Health. PHRD Study No. 6, 1996.
*  Cost-effectiveness and Program Evaluation of Major Interventions in Health. PHRD
Study No. 7, 1996.
* Access to and Supply of Health Facilities and Services. PHRD Study No. 11, 1996..



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
* Community Consultation and Participatory Development. PHRD Study No. 12,
1996.
* The Role of NGOs and Private Sector in Social Service Delivery, Ethiopia. PHRD
Study No. 13, 1996.
* Survey of Health and Medical Institutions. PHRD Study No. 17, 1996.
* Social Sector Review: Health Sector Synthesis, 1996.
C.3   Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) Reports. Part II
* Pharmaceuticals and Drugs Management and Planning, PHRD II Study No. 5, 1998.
* Burden of Disease Analysis (DALYs). PHRD II Study No.6., 1998
* Quality of Health Services and Management. PHRD II Study No. 7. January, 1998.
* Cost-effectivness and Management of the Public Sector Health Care System.
PHRD II Study No. 7., 1998.
C.4    MOH. Health Care and Financing Strategy. 1997.
C.5   PPD, MOH. Health and Health Related Indicators. January 1998.
C.6   PPD,MOH. Information on Construction Industrv Capacity and Supervision. June 1998.
C.7   FDRE. A Draft Policy on HIV/AIDS of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
February 1998.
C.8   PPD, MOH. Proposal for Strengthening the Capacity of the Planning and Projects
Department of the Ministry of Health. June 1998.
C.9    MOH. Letter of Sector Policy. August 10, 1998
C.10  MOH. National Health Policy. 1993.
C.1 I   MOH. National Drugs Policy. 1994.
C. 12  MOH. National Environmental Health Policy (draft). 1998.



Statiis of Bank Grouip Opcralions in Etliiopia
IBIRD Loans and II)A Cretlits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Origirial Amounit int USS Millions                anld actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/    Supervision Ratli.
Project ID    Credit       Year               borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig         Frm Rev'd    Dev Obi        IMp
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 61
Active Loans
ET-PE-721      IDA 18730   1918  GOVT.                               EDUCATION VIl                 0.00       70.00             5.94          11.50      13.24       7.34        S             S
ET-PE-712      IDA 21610    1990  GOVERNiiENT                        SECOtlD ADDIS URBAN 0         0.00       35.00             2.26          12.10      12.32       6.10        U             U
ET-PE-722      IDA 21030   1990  GOVT                               i4ARItET TOWilS DEV            0.00       40.20             0.00           9.71       6.14       1.75        U             S
ET-PE-734      IDA 24380   1993  ETHIOPIA                            ROAD REHABII.ITATION          0.00       96.00             0.00          42.96      48.01       0.00        S             S
ET-PE-758      IDA 25880   1994  GOVERNMENT                          CAIU1 ENERGY DEV. PR          0.00       74.31             0.00          62.69      55.37       0.00        S             S
ET-PE-752      IDA 27410   1995  GOVT. OF ETHIOPIA                   NATIONAL. SEEDS PROJE         0.00       22.00             0.00          16.91      13.04       0.00        U             U
ET-PE-753      IDA 27400   1995  GOVERNMENT                          NAT. FEWrII.lIZER PROJ        0.00      120.00             0.00          70.57      -4.49       0.00        S             S
ET-PE-764      IDA 28420    1996  GOVT. OF ETHIOPIA                  WATER SUPPI.Y DEVihRE:I       0.00       35.73             0.00          23.90      14.51       0.00        S             S
ET-PE-771      IDA 28410   1996                                      ESRt I                        0.00      120.00            12.79          79.58      32.53       0.00        S             S
Er-PE-733      IDA 30920   1998  GOE                                AG. RESEARC & TRAIN            0.00       60.00             0.00          59.03        .18       0.00       S             S
ET-PE-732      IDA 30770   1998  GOVERNMENT                          EDUCATION SECr.INVES          0.00      100.00             0.00          98.56       0.00       0.00
ET-PE-755      IDA 30320   1998  GOVERNHiENT                         ROAD SEC. DEV. PROG.          0.00      309.20             0.00        297.80        6.62       0.00       S             S
ET-PE-736      IDA 30190   1998  GOVT. OF ETIlOPIA                 EIIERGY 11                     0,00      200.00             0.00        193.08        2.32       0.00       HS            us
Total                                                                                              0.00   1,282.44             20.99         978.39    199.79       15.19
Active Loans         Closed l.oans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 241.34             1,539.76            1,781.10
of which has been repaid:                    .65              215.80               216.45
Total now held by IBRO and IDA:               1,260.80            1,241.93             2,502.73
Amount sold                      :                0.00                 6.04                 6.04
Of whichi repald             :                 0.00                 6.04                6.04
Total Undisbursed                :              978.39                  .25              978.64
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursezieents to dare as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio perforimiance IARPP), a letter based systemii was introduced  lilS   highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU- highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Perforinance Ratinig Methodology lSecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is uapdated at the end of the first week of the month.
CD  2s



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Ethiopia at a glance                                                              5/4198
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan    Low-
Ethiopia    Africa  Income    I Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                      58.2       596    3,236
GNP percapita 1996 (US$)                             100       490      490                 LHe expectancy
GNP 1996 (bilions USS)                               6.0       295    1,597                      T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                       2.2        2.7      1.8     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%)                                       2.4       2.6      1.7     per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year aveilable since 1990)                          capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total populaton)               16        32       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      49        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 gmie births)             109        91       68               Access to safe water
Child malnutriffon (54 of children under 5)           48         ..      43
Access to safe water (% of populatbon)                27        45       76
Illiteracy (I4 of population age 15+)                 65        44       34                Ethiopia
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  31       75      107                Lowenco,ne grup
Male                                                39        82      112                Lwicm   ru
Female                                              24  67 102 _ _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1995    1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billons USS)                             ..     6.7        5.8      6.0
Gross domesbc investment/GDP                  ..      9.0      15.7    21.0              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..     8.2       14.5    13.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..      1.0       6.7      6.6
Gross national savings/GDP                    .,      3.4      14.0    13.3
Current account balance/GDP                   ..    -5.6       -1.6    -7.7                     /
Interest payments/GDP                         ..     0.6        1.1      0.9     Savings           _        Investment
Total debt/GDP                                ..    77.7      178.4   167.7
Total debt service/exports                   7.3    28.4       19.1    42.2
Present value of debt/GOP                     ..       .,        ..   133.1
Present value of debttexports                 ..       ..        ..   971.6                  Indebtedness
1976-86  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                   Ethiopda
GDP                                         2.2      5.4       10.6          ,      , --  - Low-income group
GNP per capita                       ..    -0.4      3.0        7.5
Exports of goods and services       ..    -2.3    10.2          4.9       .._._,_ _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(X4 of GDP)                                1976    1986       1996    1996       Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
Agriculture                                   ..    53.2         ..so
Industry                                     ..    12.7          ..       ..      0
Manufacturing                               ..      7.2        ..              20
Services                                     ..    34.1          ''      '.    04                        99         9
Private consumption                           ..    84.6       82.5    81.6      40
General govemment consumption                 ..    14.4       10.8    11.8                     GD1      4GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..    16.2       23.5    27.5                             , .
197545  1986-96      1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agrculture                                    ..     2.4        3.4    14.7    1so
Industry                                     ..    -2.7         8.1      5.6     t0
Manufacturing                               ..    -3.2        9.0      7.6     so
Services                                     ..      5.4        7.2      7.0     20
Private consumption                           ..     3.0        5.0      5 .7 -20                   93 9 5           go
General govemment consumpfton                 ..    -4.8        2.7    20.7    .40
Gross domestic investmnent                    ..     5.8        9.4    47.6      o l
Imports of goods and services                 ..     1.1        8.6    26.8                 Exports  --Imports
Gross national product                        ..     2.1        5.8    11.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Ethiopia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996    1996       infaton
Domstic pfaces
(% change)                                                                      25
Consumer pnces                               6.6    19.1       13.4      0.9    20
Implicdt GDP deflator                               29.5       13.4      1.2    Is
10.
Government finance s
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                      16.8      17.2    18.0             91   92   93   94   95   95
Current budget balance                               -2.7       1.5      1.1                   GDP def.    ICP
Overall surplusideficit                             -11.3      -8.2    -8.4
TRADE
(millons USS)                              1975    1986       1996    1996       Export and Import levels (milf. US$)
Total exports (fob)                         230      359       454      410       soo -
Commodity 1: Coffee                                225        288      273
Commodity 2: Leather and leather products           46         60       49
Manufactures                                 ..
Total imports (cif)                         276      975      1,063    1,413
Food                                               283        181     215       soo
Fuel and energy                                     186       169     215
Capital goods                                      249        334      460        o
Export price index (1987=100)                         98       116      100            so  91  92  93  94  95  96
Importpriceindex(1987=100)                           101       105      110                  aExports   lnimports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..      95       110       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995    1996
(milrions USS)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               330      549       784      783       o
Imports of goods and services               409    1,082      1,272    1,647    .-
Resource balance                            -79    -533        -488    .864      -2
Net income                                  -17      -33        -60     -44      -3
Net current transfers                        45      193       459      446
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers          -52    -373        -90     461      -7
Financing items (net)                        45      420       343      544      o
Changes in net reserves                       7      -48      -253      -83    .1-
Memo:                                                                            .
Reserves including gold (mill USS)          315      216       815      733
Conversion rate (locaWSS)                     ..      2.1       5.9      6.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1995    1996
(millions USS)                                                                   CompositIon of total debt 1998 (mIll USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        344    5,206    10,309   10,077
I1RO                                       69       49         0        0                 F   G
IDA                                        73      437      1.470    1,555               354          1555
Total debt service                           25      159       154      348                                 92
IBRO                                        9        7         4        0D
IDA                                         1        6        23       25                                  93
Composition of net resource flows
Offrcial grants                            35      514       475      420
Offic;-vi creditors                        65      527       188      211
Private creditors                          -3       59       -48    -210
Foreign direct investment                  19        0         a        5
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0        0                 6643
World Bank program
Commitments                                71       32       142      158      A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              28       50        84      142      8 - IDA    0- Other mutilateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                        4        7        16       14      C-IMF                      G-Short-term
Net flows                                  22       43        67      128   i
Interest payfents                           6        7        11       11
Net transfers                              18       36        56      116
Development Economics                                                                                             5/4/98
Note: Data prior to 1992 include Eritrea.



Annex 11
Page I of 4
August 10, 1998
Mr. James O.Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Ethiopia: Health Sector Development Program 1997-2002
Letter of Sector Policy
This letter outlines the salient features of the Ethiopian Government's five year health sector
development program covering the period 1997-2002. The program constitutes the first phase of the 20-
year development strategy developed by the Government following the adoption of a new health sector
policy in 1993. The policy is a result of a rigorous examination of the nature, extent and causes of the
health problems in view of the political commitments and economic situation prevalent in Ethiopia
today. Based on the Government's commitment to democracy and decentralization, it accords high
priority to the needs of the under privileged and the underserved rural community which constitutes 85
percent of the population. Realistic goals and feasible strategies have been set to attain the objective of
better health for all Ethiopians.
Overview of the Health System
Ethiopia's health status is one of the worst in Sub Sahara Africa, the major reasons for this being the high
prevalence of communicable diseases and malnutrition, underfunding, inefficient management and
inequitable distribution of facilities. The highly centralized, bureaucratic arrangement precluded any
meaningful cooperation and participation by stakeholders. The effect of these deficiencies is evidenced
by extremely poor health status indicators.
The crude death rate estimated to be 15 per 1000 population, is second to Uganda in Eastern Africa. Life
expectancy at birth of males and females is 49.7 and 52.4 years respectively. The infant mortality rate is
110 per 1000 live birth while under 5 mortality rate is 161 deaths per 1000. Maternal mortality is at an
alarming high rate of 500-700 per 100,000 live births. Urban-rural and inter-regional differences exist in
vital health status indicators, with the rural population and newly emerging regions being disadvantaged.
Democratization and decentralization of the health system; development of the preventive and promotive
components of health care and also development of an equitable and acceptable standard of health
service that will reach all segments of the population within limits of available resources are the main
objectives of the strategic development scheme.
To make these objectives a reality there is also a need to promote and strengthen intersectoral activities;
develop appropriate capacity based on assessed needs and promote the participation of the private sector
and non governmental organizations in health care.



Annex 11
Page 2 of 4
The Health Sector Development Program (HSDP)
The Health Sector Development Program is based on the Ethiopian Government's development strategy
developed in collaboration with multilateral and bilateral partners. Substantial discussion and
participation took place between the Federal Ministry of Health (MOH) and the eleven Regional States in
the development of the program. The program is detailed in the Government's Program Action Plan
(PAP) dated July 1998. The Ministry of Health and the Regional Health Bureaus are the implementing
agencies supervised and coordinated by a Central Joint Steering Committee with membership of the
Prime Minister's Office, Ministers of Health, EducaLtion, Finance, Economic Development and
Cooperation, and donors. Similar set-ups exist at the regional level with roles parallel to the national
level. The Committee is entrusted with the tasks of oversight of the program, and providing guidance for
improved outcome.
The program is designed tc increase access, promote an equitable distribution of health services, increase
community participation and strengthen decentralized aclministration and intersectoral collaboration.
Management of the health system is to be strengthened through restructuring at federal and regional
levels to ensure rationalization of resource allocation and utilization. Investment by the private sector and
international community including NGOs will be encouraged by instituting an enabling environment for
participation, coordination and mobilization of funds. The total financial requirement for the program is
estimated at 5 billion Birr (737.8 million USD). The Government is committed to cover 55.4 percent
while the remaining 44.6 percent is expected from local ancl international development partners.
The target at the end of the first phase of the plan period for life expectancy at birth of males and
females is 56.2 and 59.2 respectively. For infant mortality rate the target is 95 per 1000 live birth. It is
also expected to improve the pre-HSDP primary health care coverage of 45 percent to 55-60% range,
contraceptive usage from 8% to 15-20% and immunization coverage from 60% to 70- 80%.
The following are the components under the Program:-
*  Facility Expansion and Rehabilitation
*  Service Delivery and Quality
*  Human Resource Development
*  Pharmaceutical Supply and Management
*  Information, Education and Communication
*  Health Management and Management Infortnation System
*  Health Care Financing
*  Monitoring, Evaluation and Research
Central and Regional Roles and Responsibilities
A federal system of governance was structured following the change of political power which gave rise
to nine regions and two administrative councils. This resulted in transfer of responsibility for health care
provision to the regions. Hence, all health care facilities, except specialized federal referral teaching-
research hospitals in Addis Ababa, are managed by regional health bureaus. The MOH is mandated to
operate some specialized hospitals, set national standards, iformulate policies, provide technical support
to regions and oversee implementation in general.
Policy and Institutional Reforms



Annex I1
Page 3 of 4
Successful implementation of HSDP, will require a sustained commitment on the part of Government in
close partnership with donors, a framework of appropriate policy and institutional reforms, an effective
administrative structure at all levels, and appropriately trained manpower. The Government of Ethiopia
consciously aims to build the required capacities for the effective implementation of the HSDP.
Government has proposed and donors have accepted the importance of establishing a Central Joint
Steering Committee (CJSC) to facilitate program implementation. The Planning and Project Department
(PPD) of MOH and the RHBs shall serve as Secretariats to the Central and Regional Steering
Committees respectively. The committees have already been established and have started working at the
Center and in a number of Regions.
Other policy and institutional reforms to be undertaken to assist HSDP implementation are listed below
in the order of priority:-
1.   To guarantee adequate program management, administration and financial management as well as
the availability of information for decision-making at all levels, MOH will strengthen the capacity
of PPD. A detailed plan of action has already been prepared, and implementation will be initiated
in 1998/99 . Regional Capacities will also be strengthened
2.   To enhance the promotive and preventive aspect of health services, MOH will:
(a)  Develop a national strategic framework of information, education and communication (IEC)
and other implementation guidelines. To assist this effort an autonomous Health Learning
Materials Production and Distribution Centre (HLMPDC) has been established.
(b)  Complete and use manuals on communicable diseases control.
3.   To improve efficiency in the use of available resources, alleviate the underfinancing of the sector
and ensure sustainability of the development program, the Government will increase the health
budget each year subject to fiscal sustainability, and will implement a health care financing
strategy.
4.   To ensure a regular and adequate supply of effective and affordable essential drugs:-
a)   MOH will revise and update the existing drug policy and put it into practice (2000/1).
b)   Lists of recommended drugs at National and Regional States level will be formulated and
regularly updated (1998/99).
c)   Modernization of legal and regulatory framework governing drug law and regulations will be
acted on (1998/99).
d)   Training of health personnel in drug supply management will be conducted.
e)   Further actions in restructuring PHARMID will be taken.
f)   Adequate recurrent budget for drugs will be allocated.



Annex 11
Page 4 of 4
5.   To assist professional growth and job satisfaction, to encourage good performance and to minimize
attrition, the Government has issued guidelines on career structure and human resource
management and appropriate incentive. The implementation of the actions taken will be regularly
reviewed.
6.   To ensure development of appropriate health infrastructure;
a) MOH will refine and issue the already prepared minimum standards of health posts, health
centers and district hospitals. It will also prepare standards for zonal and specialized
hospitals (1998/99)-(2001/2).
b) The Government will deepen the decentralization process through effective capacity building
efforts to ensure sustainability of development programs and regional balance.
7.   To promote a comprehensive and nationally uniform improvements in service delivery and quality
of care, MOH will:-
a)   develop minimum packages of essential services for all four levels with due emphasis on the
critical district level care (2000/2001).
b)   develop and/or revise service standards for NGOs and the private sector.
c)   develop mechanism for the transition towards the 4 tier health care delivery system.
The Government will continue to pursue its economic development through relevant strategies to
strengthen the mobilization of resources for the implementation of HSDP, focusing on health service
delivery, promotive interventions and provision of pharmaceuticals as the most important priority
measures.
If there happens to be a situation where budget cuts are necessary, the Government will
(a) scale down tertiary health facility targets, and (b) phase capital expenditures which will reduce
associated recurrent expenditures. The mechanism for assessing the contingency plan will be the plan
and budget annual review.
This in brief, is the modality of program operation. While the Ethiopian Government is committed to
health for all and accords health a leading priority, it is presumptuous to claim attainment of the lofty
objectives through local inputs alone. Hence, international cooperation is expected to play an important
role. The Ethiopian peoples wish to present their strategic health service development plan and invite its
national and international development partners to play an active role in this deserving endeavor.
Sincerely,
(signed)
H.E Dr. Adem Ibrahim
Minister of Health



Annex 12
Page 1 of 1
Health Sector Development Program
Environmental Aspects
Resettlement
Health facility construction is not expected to involve resettlement; if it does so
unexpectedly, the Government would apply Ethiopia's existing policies for dealing with
resettlement, which are satisfactory.
Sanitation
Although increasing the number of health facilities might pose some environmental
problems such as possible contamination of the environment through improper waste disposal
and inappropriate siting of latrines, mitigating measures are being incorporated in the preparation
of designs, equipment, standards and procedures that health facilities, especially hospitals, would
have to adhere to. Health facilities will be equipped with a safe water supply. Technical
assistance has also been provided in the areas of waste disposal, safe water supply, and IEC to
promote healthy and hygienic behaviors. Moreover regional staff will be sensitized to proper
siting and maintenance of latrines; supervising engineers at -the Ministry of Health will also be
sensitized to environmental issues.
Buildings and Equipment
Government-prepared building designs, equipment lists, standards and procedures have
been reviewed and discussed and understandings reached. They take proper account of good
environmental practices.
Medical Waste Management
The Government has prepared a draft document on Health Institutions Waste
Management dated June 1998. It categorizes medical wastes and proposes that the waste load be
segregated by type in suitable containers. It proposes the use of a set of different treatment and
disposal methods according to the type of waste. It also provides for on-site and off-site
disposal, and for the bulking of certain wastes at a few central points for disposal.
The Government's document will be used as the basis for developing a work procedures
handbook reflecting general good practice. The procedures will then be widely disseminated
through a program of staff training.



~ 315-                                       400                                                              ETHIOPIA
!                                                                          HEALTH SECTOR
/                                -                                      DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
i i * NATIONAL CAPITALS
ERITREA                                                                                   STATE/REGION BOUNDARIES
/ . ----- ZONE BOUNDARIES
Khartoum                                           Asmara*                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-15                                                                                                                     150-
0'   ,'s            100  200  300  400    500
KILOMETERS
450
S U  D A  N                                           GNoder           Wag             Four                  ,
Gandr   emrcNrh   el
i                           a                           A ' 4 ~~~~~~~DJIBOUTI 
..'Metekel             Gojam
/tgi;.9,:; !j^2X&X  ir Agewa ie r- East i  South
-'Goiannm       Wello                    Shenile                                                                                  1
I ol~~~~~~~ 
I-~~~~~~~~~S
West ~~     Wellega  I       o~-Jijiga
WelWes  ~   ~      <2West ,%'~~
le                            Shewa                                                                                SOMALIA
.A4ddis Ababa*'                 Wet          Earegest*~*~~                                       O      A     I
Th,ree; One   "'          _-,hho' 1,                       00'Herh                              Degehabu-
~~NTwo  ~Four   Jima    Gurag          "  ~~Arsi     ,   ' 
. f A < '-r0                                                         Fike ,--I;F                     Wrrder , |
*".Bench ,r        '   North              !5/80                                        L Bale  /Kebridehatl
\ &  ' A n.-'Om         if 1/?o S;d0/
South    ,.-"'    Amaro                   .                              KlGode         /
_50                                              8   Oma g_<          Burji            "~~-~~'       \        Afder              --.      /5
-5- ~~~~~~~~~IDrashi
---A < Ko~~nso                   BorenQ  
-  Konso  Borena                           0                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This mop was produced by the
0<                                                        -        ,.~;*-0Libe                                                                  ,. Map DesigninumitofrheWorld Bonk.
>  ~~y~~5'x~~~     /                                      N..                                 /                                                             The boull  ndaries, clrs, denominations
andonyotherinformationshownon
>     ta                                ;                      ~                      ' V,,                                                                                this map do not imply, an the paort of m
c                 UGAN  DA                                                                                /                                                                The World Bank Group, any judgment  r t
f ~ 3/.IJNLJA             31                     K' E   N Y  A                                                                                          on the 16eual stoleas of ny territory or
UGANDA                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any endlorsement or acceptance of  1
350                                           400                                               5                              such boundaries.



