Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3140-ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Development Program Support Project)
between
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 30, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3140-ET 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 30, 1998, between the FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF 
ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated August 10, 1998, and a 
copy of the Borrower’s Program Action Plan of October 1998 which describe a program of 
actions, objectives, and policies designed to strengthen the Borrower's health sector 
(the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(B)
the Borrower, as part of the Program, having undertaken to carry out the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from various Donors (as hereinafter 
defined) grants and loans to assist in the financing of the Program; and  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Birr” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(b)
“CJSC” means the Borrower’s Central Joint Steering Committee, responsible 
for the overall coordination of the implementation of the Program; 
(c)
“DACD” means the Drug Administration and Control Department of MOH; 
(d)
“District” and “Zone” mean administrative subdivisions of the Borrower’s 
territory; 
(e)
“Donors” means, collectively, the national or international agencies 
contributing funds or technical assistance for the Program, and “Donor” means each and 
every such agency individually; 
(f)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the twelve-month period beginning July 8 of 
each Gregorian calendar year, and ending July 7 of the following Gregorian calendar 
year; 
(g)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization of the 
United Nations;
(h)
“PHARMID” means the Borrower’s Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies Import 
and Wholesale Enterprise, established and operating pursuant to the laws of the 
Borrower; 
(i)
“Program Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual referred to in 
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, containing, inter alia, guidelines and procedures 
to be used for the purpose of implementation of the Program and Project, including 
financial, accounting, and disbursement procedures and guidelines, as the manual may 
be amended from time to time in consultation with the Association and the Donors, and 
such term includes any schedules to the PIM; 
(j)
“Region” means each of the  Borrower’s Regions listed in Article 47 of 
the Borrower’s Constitution of December 8, 1994, and the Addis Ababa City 
Page  3
Administration and the Dire Dawa Provisional Council; 
(k)
“RG” means each of the governments of the Borrower’s Regions; 
(l)
“RHB” means each of RG’s Regional Health Bureaus; 
(m)
“RJSC” means each of the Regional Joint Steering Committees responsible 
for the coordination of the implementation of the Program in each Region;
(n)
“Subprogram” means the part of the Program, included in the Project, to 
be agreed upon each Fiscal Year between the Borrower, the Association and the Donors; 
and   
(o)
“UNICEF” means the United Nations Children’s Fund. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy five million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 75,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of Ethiopia on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 7, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
Page  4
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, commencing April 15, 2009, and ending October 15, 2038. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
Page  5
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Program of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Program or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including the funds provided by the Donors, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than seven months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request; 
(iv)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(v)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(vi)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section and that 
the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and ensure 
that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit contains 
a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Page  6
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Program shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement, and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Program are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions 
of paragraph (b) (ii) of that section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
The Borrower has adopted the PIM in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
The Borrower has adopted the action plan referred to in paragraph 10 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in form and substance acceptable to the Association; 
(c)
The Borrower has prepared standard bidding documents, acceptable to the 
Association, for the primary health care units to be constructed under the Project; 
and  
(d)
The Borrower has appointed the head of the Planning and Projects 
Department of MOH, and the heads of its planning and budgeting, program coordination 
and monitoring, and finance and procurement teams. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Page  7
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
PO Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Telex:
21147
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Berhane Gebre-Christos 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Page  8
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works, drugs, medical
Up to 26,300,000
100% of foreign expendi-
supplies, vaccines,
in the aggregate for
tures and 90% of 
local
contraceptives, furni-
FY98/99, and there-
expenditures for works,
ture, equipment,
after, such amount
drugs, medical supplies,
vehicles, materials,
as may be allocated
vaccines, 
contraceptives,
and other goods,
for each FY by the
furniture, vehicles,
consultants' services,
Association
materials, and equipment.
training and incremental
and other goods, and 100%
operating costs for
for consultants' services,
Subprograms
training and incremental
operating costs, or such
other percentage as the
Association may determine
from time to time
(2)
Unallocated
  48,800,000
TOTAL
  75,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Program implementation, management, monitoring, and auditing, 
including office supplies, vehicle and equipment operation, office rental, utilities, 
telecommunications, transport, travel, per diem and supervision costs but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for good or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
(b)
payments made for expenditures for a Subprogram, unless: (i) such 
Subprogram has been approved by the Association in accordance with, and subject to, 
the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower 
has submitted evidence satisfactory to the Association showing that: (A) its proposed 
annual budget for the Fiscal Year corresponding to the Subprogram is consistent with 
the objectives of the Program; and (B) the expenditures incurred in the previous 
Fiscal Year's Subprogram were made in compliance with the objectives of the Program.
(c)
payments made for expenditures for goods, works, and services under a 
contract which any national or international financing institution or agency, other 
than the Association, shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other credit 
or grant.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) operating costs and 
training; (b) goods, under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (c) works, 
under contracts not exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent; and (d) services of: (i) 
consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (ii) individual consultants 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
Page  9
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing 
Subprograms under the Program to develop a health system which provides comprehensive 
and integrated primary care health services, primarily based at community level health 
facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
The carrying out of Subprograms for:
Part A:
Technical Quality of Primary Health Care Services 
Improving the technical quality of primary health care services, through: (a) 
preparation and implementation of training programs designed to improve the technical 
skills of the Borrower’s health personnel and staff of private and not-for-profit 
health services providers; (b) acquisition of medical equipment, furniture and 
supplies; and (c) establishment of: (i) licensing and certification systems for health 
services providers, and (ii) a patient referral system, including appropriate 
guidelines and procedures.
Part B:
Access to Primary Health Care 
Improving access to primary health care services, including: (a) the 
construction and equipping of primary health care units, and hospitals at the District 
and Zone levels, as well as at specialized hospitals; (b) the establishment of 
technical standards for health facilities, through the provision of technical advisory 
services; (c) the strengthening of the Borrower’s medical equipment maintenance 
capacity, and its capacity to supervise the construction of health facilities, through 
the provision of technical advisory services and training; and (d) increasing private 
sector participation in the delivery of health services, through the provision of 
technical advisory services.
Part C:
Human Resource Development   
Increasing the number, and improving the productivity, of qualified health 
personnel through provision of training.
Part D:
Pharmaceutical Sector
Improving the supply of, and access to, effective, safe and affordable good 
quality drugs, through: (a) the acquisition of drugs, (b) the strengthening of the 
Borrower’s regulatory framework for quality control and drug prescription, including 
the development and enforcement of guidelines and standards designed to improve the 
prescribing behavior of health services providers; (c) the improvement of the 
Borrower’s systems of procurement, distribution, storage and utilization of drugs; and 
(d) the strengthening of the capacity of DACD to effectively carry out its missions.
Part E:
Information, Education, and Communication
Improving awareness of all segments of the Borrower’s population about the 
importance of personal and environmental hygiene for the prevention of diseases, and 
building support for the improvement of health services, through the preparation and 
implementation of information, education and communication programs targeting, inter 
alia, planners, policy makers, managers, community leaders, and women’s groups.
Part F:
Health Sector Management and Information Systems  
Strengthening the Borrower’s health sector management and information systems 
with a view to establishing a well-managed, decentralized, and participatory health 
system, through: (a) the preparation and implementation of training programs designed 
to improve the skills of staff of MOH and RHBs, in policy formulation, planning, 
budgeting, administration, financial management, and Program implementation, 
monitoring, and evaluation; (b) the improvement of the Borrower’s management 
information systems; and (c) the construction, rehabilitation, and equipping of 
offices of MOH and RHBs.
Page  10
Part G:
Monitoring, Evaluation and Applied Research  
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to monitor improvements in the delivery, 
quality, and financial performance of health services, and evaluate the impact, 
effectiveness, and cost-effectiveness of all components of the Program, through: (a) 
the establishment and operation of an integrated monitoring and evaluation system at 
all levels of the Borrower’s health delivery system, and (b) the carrying out of 
scientific and applied research programs. 
Part H:
Financial Sustainability of the Health Sector
Improving the financial sustainability and efficiency of the Borrower’s public 
health sector through: (a) improving the allocation of budgetary resources, including: 
(i) increasing the allocation of resources for preventive care and rural areas, (ii) 
focusing on health interventions with the largest health impact, (iii) clustering of 
health services for specific target groups, and (iv) tailoring of the supply of health 
services according to relative burden of disease patterns across Regions; (b) 
strengthening the operational efficiency of the public health system, including: (i) 
reorganizing and decentralizing health facilities, and strengthening their financial, 
accounting, reporting and cost-recovery systems, (ii) improving management of 
personnel, and (iii) restructuring PHARMID; and (c) generating additional sources of 
revenue for the health sector. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 7, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, and in September 1997 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Page  11
Drugs, medical supplies, vaccines, and contraceptives estimated to cost less 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$5,000,000 equivalent, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a 
limited number of suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
(i) Goods, excluding drugs and medical supplies, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$15,000,000 equivalent, and (ii) drugs and medical supplies estimated to cost less 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping 
Goods, including drugs and medical supplies, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
4.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $5,000,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under lump sum, fixed price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources 
to successfully complete the contract. 
6.
Community Participation 
Contracts for the construction of primary health care units in remote areas of 
the territory of the Borrower, estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or less per 
contract may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be awarded to local communities 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
7.
Direct Contracting
Contracts for: (i) the extension of an existing contract for goods or works, 
(ii) the additional purchase from the original supplier of equipment, vehicles, and 
spare parts for the purpose of standardization; or (iii) the purchase of proprietary 
equipment, drugs and medical supplies may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
awarded on the basis of direct contracting procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
8.
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Vehicles and equipment estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, may be procured from IAPSO, and UNICEF in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  12
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for each Subprogram shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, 
and (ii) the first two contracts for goods and works in each of the Borrower’s 
Regions, regardless of their estimated cost. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for consultants may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  13
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under each Subprogram shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
non-governmental organizations estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
non-governmental organizations estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2  
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Program in accordance with the procedures set 
out in the PIM and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend, or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association 
and the Donors, such amendment, or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Program.
2.
(a) MOH shall be responsible for: (i) the overall implementation of the Program,  
and (ii) the implementation of activities under the Program which fall within the 
jurisdiction of the Borrower’s central departments and agencies; and (b) RHBs shall be 
responsible for the implementation of the parts of the Program to be carried out in 
their respective Regions, with the assistance of MOH.  
3.
(a) CJSC shall be responsible for the overall supervision, monitoring, and 
coordination of the implementation of the Program, including overseeing the health 
sector policy reform, coordinating the sector-wide Subprograms, mobilizing resources 
for the implementation of the Program, approving work plans under the Program, and 
coordinating the assistance from Donors to the Program; and (b) RJSCs shall be 
responsible for the supervision, monitoring and coordination of the implementation of 
the Program at the regional level, including allocating resources for the 
Page  14
implementation of the Program and approving work plans under the Program. The Borrower 
shall maintain CJSC until the completion of the Program, with composition and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association, and cause its RGs to maintain the RJSCs for 
their respective Regions, until the completion of the Program, with composition and 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
Performance Indicators and Annual Review
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Program and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than by the end of March each year, commencing March 1999, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Association, Donors, and RHBs, a joint annual 
review on all matters relating to the progress of the Program and, in particular the 
progress achieved in the implementation of the Program during the previous Fiscal 
Year, having regard to the monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph; and
(c)
furnish to the Association and the Donors: 
(i)
semiannual financial statements indicating all revenues and 
expenditures for 
the health sector, according to the source of funds, 
the budget items and a 
selection of performance indicators agreed 
upon between the Borrower, the 
Association and Donors; and 
(ii)
not later than one month prior to the annual review referred to in 
paragraph 4 
(b) above, or such later date as the Association may agree, 
a report, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, 
integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) 
of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program during 
the previous fiscal Year 
and setting out the measures proposed to ensure the 
efficient carrying 
out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof 
during the period following such date, and the report of actual 
expenditures against the budget for the previous Fiscal Year. 
Annual Subprograms
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than one month prior to the annual review referred to in 
paragraph 4 (b) above, or such later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the 
Association for its approval the proposed Subprogram for the following Fiscal Year, 
prepared in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
carry out, or cause to be carried out, each such Subprogram in accordance 
with modalities and procedures as approved by, and in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association and in accordance with the PIM; and
(c)
not make any material change to the approved Subprogram without the prior 
approval of the Association.
6.
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Association shall not approve any proposal for a Subprogram furnished to it pursuant 
to subparagraph 5 (a) above unless and until:
(a)
the Borrower shall have prepared and furnished to the Association an 
operational plan for the Subprogram, setting forth, inter alia, the activities to be 
carried out, any policy reforms and other measures to be implemented, the expenditures 
to be incurred, the sources of financing of such expenditures and the procurement plan 
to be followed; and
(b)
the Association shall have been satisfied with the progress made to date 
Page  15
in the carrying out of the activities under the Program on the basis of indicators 
referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule. 
7.
Midterm Review 
(a)
Not later than by the end of March 2000, or such other date as the 
Association shall agree, the Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association, 
RHBs, and Donors a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Program 
(hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
The Midterm Review shall cover, among other things:
(i)
an in-depth review of all components of the Program, and
(ii)
a discussion of the options for ensuring the long-term 
sustainability of the 
health sector, including a review of the 
timeliness and adequacy of the 
Borrower’s budgetary contribution 
to the financing of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least six (6) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association and Donors a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of the Program and a summary report of Program implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm 
Review, prepare an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for further 
implementation of the Program having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action plan. 
Budget Management
8.
MOH shall be responsible for: (i) the preparation and implementation of health 
budgets at the central level, (ii) the consolidation of activities, at the central and 
regional levels, and (iii) the monitoring of the performance of sector delivery of 
health services. 
9.
RHBs shall prepare and implement annual plans and budgets for their respective 
Regions.  
10.
The Borrower shall adopt an action plan satisfactory to the Association designed 
to strengthen its financial management capacity to carry out the Program, and 
thereafter implement said action plan, in accordance with timetables included therein, 
with due diligence and efficiency. 
Sector Financing 
11.
Not later than three months after the date of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
adopt a health care financing strategy acceptable to the Association. 
Impact Evaluation 
12.
Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 2002, carry out, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, an evaluation of the impact of the Program 
on the delivery of health services, including an analysis on the benefits derived by 
vulnerable groups of the population from public expenditures on health, and (b) soon 
thereafter, furnish the report of said evaluation to the Association and Donors.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Category” means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  16
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 11,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  17
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
