Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 3672-1 BOS 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Solid Waste Management Project) 
 
between 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated                                   , 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3672-1 BOS 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated                 , 2005 between BOSNIA AND 
HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS 
(A) 
the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Solid Waste Management Project) dated July 12, 2002 
(the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has made available a portion of the proceeds to the 
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation) and to Republika Srpska 
respectively and entered into Subsidiary Finance Agreements with the Federation and 
Republika Srpska respectively for that purpose; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project in an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 5,300,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Amending Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“A. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the 1999 General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement and 
apply to the Initial Financing (as hereinafter defined). 
 
B. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
Page  3
-
2
-
integral part of this Agreement and apply in respect of the Additional Financing 
(hereinafter defined): 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes 
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on the goods or services to 
be financed under the Credit, or on their importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the 
Association’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of 
the proceeds of its credits.  To that end, if the Association shall at any 
time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of 
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of 
such item in the Development Credit Agreement as required to be 
consistent with such policy of the Association.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Section 1.02. of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
adding new paragraphs (aa) through (ee) to read as follows:  
 
(aa) 
“Agreement Amending the Project Agreement” means either the 
Agreement Amending the Federation Project Agreement or the Agreement Amending the 
RS Project Agreement (defined hereafter), as the case may be, and the term “Agreements 
Amending the Project Agreements” means said agreements collectively; 
 
(bb) 
“Agreement Amending the Federation Project Agreement” means 
the agreement between the Association and the Federation of even date herewith; 
 
(cc) 
“Agreement Amending the RS Project Agreement” means the 
agreement between the Association and Republika Srpska of even date herewith; 
 
(dd) 
“Amending Agreement” means this Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Solid Waste Management Project) between the 
Borrower and the Association, dated July 12, 2002; and 
 
(ee) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
May 18, 2005, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement.” 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.03. Section 2.01. of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,600,000) (the Credit), consisting of: (i) 
an original amount in various currencies equivalent to  fourteen million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,300,000) (the Initial 
Financing); and (ii) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to five 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,300,000) (the 
Additional Financing).” 
 
Section 1.04. The following new paragraph (c) is added to Section 2.02. of the 
Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“(c) 
 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, all amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account or made subject to a 
special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02. of the General Conditions shall be 
withdrawn from the Initial Financing until such Financing has been exhausted, 
and thereafter shall be from the Additional Financing.” 
 
Section 1.05.  The Closing Date set forth in Section 2.03 of the Development 
Credit Agreement shall be extended to “November 30, 2009.” 
 
Section 1.06.  A provision is added at the end of Section 2.04. (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement to read as follows: 
 
“; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Additional Financing 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.07. The word “Credit” referred to in Section 2.07 (a), (b) and (c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement is deleted and replaced with the words “Initial 
Financing”. 
 
Section 1.08. Section 2.08 of the Development Credit Agreement is renumbered 
as Section 2.09, and a new Section 2.08 is added, to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Additional Financing in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and 
October 15, commencing October 15, 2015 and ending April 15, 2025.  Each 
installment shall be five percent (5%) of such principal amount”.  
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 1.09.  Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows:  
 
“(b) 
 The Borrower shall make available from the proceeds of Credit: 
(i) to the Federation an amount equivalent to SDR 7,040,000 from the Initial 
Financing and an amount equivalent to SDR 3,644,000 from the Additional 
Financing under the Federation Subsidiary Finance Agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) to RS an amount equivalent to SDR 3,520,000 from the Initial 
Financing and an amount equivalent to SDR 1,656,000 from the Additional 
Financing, under the RS Subsidiary Finance Agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, for relending by each Entity to its participating Utilities on terms and 
conditions set forth in paragraph (c) of this Section 3.01.” 
 
Section 1.10.  Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to the Federation Project Agreement and of Schedule 2 to 
the RS Project Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to 
the Association not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding 
Procurement Plan, for the Association’s approval.  Promptly following each 
approval by the Association of the updated Procurement Plan, the Borrower shall 
provide a copy of such update to each of the Entities.” 
 
Section 1.11.  Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Credit) of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended as set forth in the 
Annex to this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.12.  The Project Completion Date set forth in Schedule 2 of the 
Development Credit Agreement is extended to “May 31, 2009.” 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01.  This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(a) 
this Amending Agreement and the Agreements Amending the Project 
Agreement  have been executed on behalf of the Association and each Entity; and 
 
(b) 
the Federation Subsidiary Finance Agreement and the RS Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement have been amended to make available the portion of Additional 
Financing to the Federation and RS respectively as provided in this Amending 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing: 
 
(a) 
on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; 
 
(b) 
that the Agreements Amending the Project Agreements have been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Federation and RS respectively, and are legally binding upon 
the Federation and RS respectively in accordance with their respective terms; and 
 
(c) 
that the Amendments to the Subsidiary Finance Agreements referred to 
in Section 2.01(b) of this Amending Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by 
and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the Federation and RS respectively in 
accordance with their respective terms. 
 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this Amending 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not 
been executed. 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the City of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
ANNEX  
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
“1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Initial Financing and Additional Financing, the allocation of the amounts 
of the Initial Financing and Additional Financing to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
 
Percentages of 
 
Additional Expenditures 
 Category
Initial Financing
Financing
To be Financed
(1) 
Works under  
 6,320,000 
 3,300,000 
 
80%   
 
Parts A, B and C 
 
(2) 
Goods under  
 1,900,000 
 1,130,000 
100% of foreign  
 
Parts A, B and C 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), 
 
80%
of expenditures 
 
for other items 
 
procured locally  
 
(3) 
Engineering/  
 1,190,000 
 
670,000 
100% of foreign 
 Consultants’ 
 
 
 
expenditures, 
 
Services 
 
80% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
consultants domiciled 
 
within the territory 
 
of
the Borrower 
 
(4) 
Incremental   
 1,150,000 
 
200,000 
80% until January 2005,  
 
Operating Costs 
 
70% thereafter until  
 
Project completion 
 
(5) Unallocated 
 
3,740,000
-
TOTAL  
14,300,000
5,300,000
Page  9
-
8
-
