                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2139



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-47730)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF USD100 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE‘S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                    FOR THE

            AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROJECT



                                  May 10, 2012




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2011)


                      Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan (CNY)
             Chinese Yuan (CNY) 1 = USD 0.158
                           US$ 1.0 = Y 6.319

                               FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1 – June 30

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
FA      Farmer Association
FBPF    Farmer Beneficiaries Participation Framework
GMO     Genetically Modified Organism
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IPM     Integrated Pest Management
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO     Non-Government Organization
NPV     Net Present Value
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMO     Project Management Office
POCAD   Provincial Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development
SOCAD   State Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development
WTO     World Trade Organization


                         Vice President: Pamela Cox, EAPVP
                       Country Director: Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                        Sector Manager: Mark Lundell, EASCS
                   Project Team Leader: Ulrich Schmitt, EASCS
                      ICR Team Leader: Ulrich Schmitt, EASCS/Josef Ernstberger, FAO
                                                CHINA
                                Agricultural Technology Transfer Project



                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 44
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 52
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 54
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 55
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 59
MAP (IBRD 33846) .......................................................................................................... 60
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Agricultural
Country:                China                    Project Name:             Technology Transfer
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P069862                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47730
ICR Date:               05/10/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 100.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 100.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 100.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 State Office for Comprehensive Agriculture Development (SOCAD)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/05/2003      Effectiveness:             09/01/2005        09/01/2005
Appraisal:            09/20/2004      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/28/2005      Mid-term Review:                             04/21/2008
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2010        12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                   45                  45
Agro-industry                                                         20                  20
Agro-industry, marketing, and trade                                   25                  25
Information technology                                                 5                   5
Other social services                                                  5                   5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                17                  17
Other rural development                                               17                  17
Rural policies and institutions                                       33                  33
Rural services and infrastructure                                     33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:            Mark R. Lundell                      Mark D. Wilson
Project Team Leader:       Ulrich K. H. M. Schmitt              Iain G. Shuker
ICR Team Leader:           Ulrich K. H. M. Schmitt
ICR Primary Author:        Josef Ernstberger
                           Ulrich K. H. M. Schmitt

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project is to develop and test innovative models for
agricultural technology transfer and application aimed to generate additional farm income
in high value markets with a potential for scaling up. By this way the Project aims to
give poor farmers a chance to participate in high value agricultural markets domestically
and internationally.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target       Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
                  Percent increase in farmer income of targeted   farmers, particularly of resource
Indicator 1 :
                  poor farmers.
                                                                           Total discounted
                                                                           Net Value Added
                                                                           by stakeholder
                                                                           group (in CNY
                  Baseline of farmer
Value                                                                      million and %
                  income provided in          No target set at Not
quantitative or                                                            share): Farm
                  individual sub-project      appraisal.       applicable.
Qualitative)                                                               Households (478,
                  proposals at appraisal.
                                                                           55%); Farmer
                                                                           Cooperatives (196,
                                                                           18%); Companies
                                                                           (130, 27%).
Date achieved     06/09/2005                  06/09/2005       12/31/2010  12/31/2011
                  Based on data on economic performance of 91 sub-projects at completion, the
Comments
                  accumulated NPV generated by the project was computed as a practical indicator
(incl. %
                  to measure income increase and PDO achievement. The corresponding IRR is 26
achievement)
                  percent.
                  SOCAD/POCAD investment in company-farmer partnership models in non
Indicator 2 :
                  project sites in the province.
                                                                           More than 140
                                                                           project-related
                                                                           provincial
                                                                           government policy
                                                                           documents indicate
Value
                                              No target set at Not         project-supported
quantitative or   No baseline established.
                                              appraisal.       applicable. innovations have
Qualitative)
                                                                           been mainstreamed
                                                                           in agriculture
                                                                           development
                                                                           programs outside
                                                                           the project areas.
Date achieved     06/09/2005                  06/09/2005       12/31/2010  12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Percent of successful components/sub-projects as assessed by the Expert Team.
Value         0                        70%                Not             76%
quantitative or                                                  applicable.
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/09/2005                 06/09/2011          12/31/2010      12/31/2011
Comments          The Expert Team evaluated 108 out of a total of 113 implemented sub-projects.
(incl. %          49 were rated highly satisfactory, 50 satisfactory, 6 marginally satisfactory, and 3
achievement)      unsatisfactory, which represents an overall success rate of 95 %.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                          Revised
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                  Component 1: Adoption rate of technologies displayed in exhibition centers and
Indicator 1 :
                  fairs by farm size.
Value
                                                                 Not
(quantitative     0                          30%                                 75%
                                                                 applicable.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/08/2006                  06/09/2005         12/31/2010        12/31/2011
Comments          The adoption rate measured includes only farmers, which have received training
(incl. %          at the demonstration facilities. The adoption rate of visitors is unknown but likely
achievement)      much lower.
                  Component 2: Percentage of successful farmer associations in service provision
Indicator 2 :
                  to members as measured by member satisfaction rating.
Value
                                                                 Not
(quantitative     0                          60%                                 62%
                                                                 applicable.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/09/2005                  06/09/2005        12/31/2010     12/31/2011
Comments          The indicator was measured as part of the satisfaction survey at project
(incl. %          completion. The benchmark for a satisfactory score was set at 4.0 on a scale from
achievement)      0 to 5.0 and thus relatively high.
Indicator 3 :     Percentage of successful sub-projects as assessed by the Expert team.
Value
                                                                 Not
(quantitative     0                          70%                                 88%
                                                                 applicable.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/09/2005              06/09/2005         12/31/2010      12/31/2011
Comments          113 sub-projects, which received financial support under the project, were
(incl. %          surveyed by the Expert Team. 95 percent of the sub-projects were rated
achievement)      satisfactory or higher.
Indicator 4 :     Component 3: Investments aligned with provincial policies and strategies.
Value
                                                                 Not
(quantitative     NA                         Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
                                                                 applicable.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/09/2005                 06/09/2005          12/31/2010      12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          As assessed by the Expert Team.
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
 1     06/15/2005       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
 2     11/08/2005       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.50
 3     06/13/2006       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     7.24
 4     11/02/2006       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     7.75
 5     09/19/2007       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   21.76
 6     02/07/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            29.62
 7     09/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            37.01
 8     02/05/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            39.84
 9     06/23/2010   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            72.21
 10    05/13/2011       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            90.56
 11    04/08/2012       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  100.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Beginning in the late 1990s, China‘s agricultural sector entered a phase of a
challenging structural transformation. Five major developments characterized this
transformation:

      Agricultural Output and Incomes: Farm income growth had fallen alarmingly
       behind overall income development. In response, the Government‘s policy
       priorities shifted from concerns over food self-sufficiency and low consumer
       prices towards promoting income growth for farmers and narrowing the growing
       income disparity between rural and urban areas.

      Natural Resource Pressure: During a phase of rapid agricultural output expansion
       in the 1990s, farming had encroached on more fragile ecological environments
       and had adopted unsustainable production practices, including inefficient use of
       water, fertilizer and other resources as well as farming on steep sloping areas.

      Changing Demand and Consumer Preferences: Fast growth in the non-
       agricultural economy and rapid urbanization caused changes in food preferences
       and consumption patterns. Demand for meat, fruits, vegetables, and other high-
       value commodities (including ‗green‘ and organic food) increased sharply.

      Agriculture and Food Enterprises and Processing Industry: Urbanization and the
       differentiation in food consumption patterns demanded an advanced processing,
       marketing and distribution industry. Enterprises in agro-food processing emerged
       rapidly all over the country and were competing with small farmers on profit
       margins in existing or newly emerging agricultural markets.

      New Market Challenges and Opportunities: China‘s accession to the WTO
       commanded a fast liberalization of trade practices, the further opening up of the
       border, and improvements of production practices and food quality standards to
       meet international standards.

2.      At the time the project was conceived, the prevailing farming environment in
China was characterized by its highly fragmented production structure with tiny and often
unproductive farms. This farm structure made it difficult to: (a) expand the use of new
technologies and or access high value markets, which need a critical mass, farm size, or
contain other critical elements to reach economies of scale; (b) reach farmers through the
traditional extension system; and (c) for farmers to know about and respond effectively to
market signals. The slow transfer and adoption rate of modern technology, knowledge,
and innovation thus had emerged as a critical bottleneck for the structural transformation
and modernization of the agricultural sector in China.


                                            1
3.     Under this structural transformation agenda, the traditional government-based
research and extension system was seen as not being responsive enough to the new
challenges and opportunities and not effective enough to promote new agricultural
technologies and markets or cater to the increasing demand of farmers for knowledge.
On the contrary, it was considered supply-oriented as it was extending only the
government‘s programs and production targets while it had no effective means of dealing
with the constraints faced by small farmers in the adoption of new technologies or access
to new markets.

4.      Bank involvement in China‘s agriculture transformation offered an opportunity to
help address some of the above mentioned strategic aspects concerning agriculture sector
modernization by providing a learning opportunity for developing innovative models for
public sector facilitation and support and for promoting new forms of public–private
partnerships in agricultural technology transfer. Recognizing that a single project would
only have a limited impact in a country as big as China, the project was designed as a
platform for the Chinese public agriculture development system to redefine and
strengthen the rationale for public funding and improve the efficiency and modus
operandi of public sector investments through partnership arrangements with private
sector players.

5.      Within this context, the project design and objective were fully consistent with the
country‘s policies and with the restructuring and modernizing agenda in the agricultural
sector. The project supported all three of the Bank‘s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
themes, namely to: (a) improve the business environment and help accelerate the
transition to a market economy; (b) address the needs of the poorer and disadvantaged
people and lagging regions; and (c) facilitate environmentally sustainable development.
The project was also a key innovative lending operation in the Bank‘s strong and diverse
rural development project portfolio.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.      The Project Development Objective was to develop and test innovative models for
agricultural technology transfer and application aimed to generate additional farm
income in high value markets with a potential for scaling up. By this way the project
aimed to give poor farmers a chance to participate in high value agricultural markets
domestically and internationally. The project‘s key performance indicators were: (a)
percent increase in farmer income, particularly of resource poor farmers; (b) change in
value-added and share of benefits to different stakeholders in supported commodity/value
chains, such that incomes for small farmers are increased; (c) SOCAD‘s investment in
company-farmer partnership models nationally; and (d) success factors and constraints
for different company-farmer models identified.

 1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

7.     The PDO and key indicators as approved remained unchanged.


                                             2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

8.      The primary target audience and beneficiary of the project was the public sector
agricultural support and development system and, in particular, the State Office for
Comprehensive Agricultural Development (SOCAD) at the central level and the
corresponding Provincial Offices of Comprehensive Agriculture Development (POCAD)
at the provincial levels.

9.      SOCAD is China‘s main funding institution for agricultural development and
disburses over one billion USD of central government funds annually of which two thirds
support the farming and primary production sector while one third supports agricultural
industrialization and agribusiness development. In addition, the participating farmers, in
particular smallholder farmers, of the four provinces of Anhui, Heilongjiang, Hunan and
Shaanxi as well as farmer associations and agricultural enterprises and related institutions
were to benefit from the project.

1.5 Original Components

10.    The project was designed along three components (see Annex 1 for Project Costs
and Financing):

11.     The Technology Transfer and Information Markets and Services Component
would support the establishment of technology transfer markets in or near the Yangling
Development Zone in Shaanxi to be used for exhibition and/or trade of agricultural
technologies and information. The technology market concept would build on modern
communication technologies and be designed to respond to farmer‘s demand for new
ideas, technologies and business opportunities.

12.      The Promotion of Commercially Attractive Key Technologies and New
Institutional Arrangements Component included the following four sub-components: (a)
Researcher-Investor-Farmer Technologies which would involve the financing of
tripartite researcher-investor-farmer joint ventures with the objective of designing
partnership-based agriculture investment models; (b) Targeted Technology Transfer
which would finance agriculture technology transfers to farmer groups that did not have
adequate access to information, capital or decision making power to adopt new
technologies on their own; (c) Public Sector Support Programs which would finance
activities to enable and support the private sector to commercialize innovative and
successful technologies as well as directing public funds to technologies that had a clear
public goods nature but did not appeal to the private sector on commercial grounds; and
(d) Innovation Support Fund which would support a second round of proposals with
funds to be allocated on a competitive basis during implementation.

13.      The Project Support Component would include a range of capacity building and
training activities such as: (a) policy capacity building; (b) monitoring and evaluation
(M&E); (c) training and study tours and research; and (d) other project management
activities, including the provision of vehicles and equipment.


                                             3
1.6 Revised Components

14.    No changes were made to the project components as appraised.

1.7 Other significant changes

15.     The project was extended by one year from its original closing date of December
31, 2010 and closed on December 31, 2011. The purpose of the extension was to provide
additional time to the implementing agencies to consolidate relevant data and information
based on completed sub-projects relevant to the project‘s final evaluation and to allow for
some additional implementation time to complete a small number of sub-projects in
Shaanxi that had experienced delays in implementation. This restructuring also included
a reallocation of loan funds between disbursement categories.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.     Project preparation from concept stage to Bank approval took about one and a
half years, which is considered adequate given the project‘s innovative nature and
complexity. The PDO was well formulated and realistic. The secondary aim of the
project – by this way the project aims to give poor farmers a change to participate in
high value agricultural markets domestically and internationally – remained slightly
ambiguous about targeting poor farmers versus smallholder farmers. In retrospect, a
clearer focus on smallholder farmers would have been more consistent with the project‘s
general design and intention.

17.     Project preparation and design was sound and took place in the form of a dynamic
and cooperative process. Intensive stakeholder interaction during preparation created a
strong buy-in for the project‘s technology and institutional innovation approach. Detailed
technical design created a sound foundation for successful project implementation later
on. During preparation and implementation, some 250 sub-project investment proposals
were jointly appraised by the Bank, SOCAD and the POCADs. The decision to take a
phased approach—designing and approving half of the project sub-project investments
during preparation and leaving the remaining sub-projects to be decided upon during
implementation—facilitated capacity building and allowed for the gradual transfer of
ownership of sub-project appraisal and decision making from the Bank task team to the
implementing agencies without taking unnecessary risks. The phased approach was well
chosen as it provided the needed time to allow emerging new farmer associations to
become operational and to enable them to participate in investment activities.

18.     The appraisal process of individual sub-projects was thorough and involved
interviews with various stakeholders of each proposal as well as extensive field visits to
proposed field sites. This highly cooperative process proved to be very helpful in
establishing a common understanding of the project‘s objective and operating principles
among all stakeholders. This process was also important to develop and refine the


                                            4
selection criteria and appraisal procedures for sub-project investments during the
implementation phase.

19.     In the context of China‘s agricultural transformation, the project concept was
highly innovative. Instead of limiting itself to agricultural research, the project was
designed specifically as a technology-dissemination and diffusion project with the aim to
develop, test and apply a wide range of new approaches that had not been used in
previous agriculture-oriented development projects in China. These approaches included
the following:

      First, unlike traditional public sector support projects, the project combined
       public funding for research, extension, training, and institution building with
       private investment. While the government (through the project) funded the
       development and dissemination of public goods and services, these activities were
       implemented by the private sector to foster the integration of public and private
       investments.

      Second, the project focused on technologies that increased smallholders‘ incomes.
       Often public investments in agricultural research raise smallholders‘ productivity
       but not necessarily their incomes.

      Third, the project developed and funded new institutional models, in particular
       various models of farmer cooperative associations. The project design was
       forward looking in its approach to support such associations as a critical element
       for improving the dissemination of new technologies and overcoming technology
       bottlenecks and stakeholder imbalances in the agricultural value chain. The
       project design promoted the development of farmer organizations when there
       were very few such organizations in rural China and well before the stipulation of
       the Farmers‘ Professional Cooperatives Law in 2007.

      Fourth, all sub-project investments that involved commercial enterprises required
       that at least half of the sub-project funding was used to directly support farmers
       that provided the raw materials for the enterprises (production base or farm
       outreach).

      Fifth, given the public goods elements of many project activities, a broad range of
       social and environmental aspects were integrated into individual sub-project
       design.

      Sixth, the project was specifically designed to provide an opportunity for China‘s
       public agricultural development system to reassess the rationale for public
       funding in agriculture and improve the effectiveness and practices of public sector
       investments.

20.     One weakness in the project‘s design was that two of the four key outcome
indicators were not particularly well chosen. One indicator—percent increase in farmer

                                            5
income, particularly of resource poor farmers—was impractical for reasons of
aggregation, time, and attribution of income increases to the project. It would have been
more appropriate to select the aggregate net present value (NPV) across all sub-projects
to assess the project‘s economic impact on farmers. A second indicator—SOCAD’s
investment in company-farmer partnership models nationally—was beyond the
geographical and time scope of what could reasonably be assessed by the project during
its implementation.

21.    In addition, no targets were set at appraisal for these two indicators.        The
evaluation would have benefitted from clearer targets to be achieved.

22.     The overall risk of the project was adequately assessed as moderate. A number of
risk mitigation measures were integrated into the design, notably: (a) measures to ensure
participation of smallholder farmers, (b) a component to target women farmers and to
support the mainstreaming of gender aspects across all main project activities, and (c)
selection criteria to work with financially strong and experienced private partners
committed to delivering public goods ensuring financial stability and delivery of social
and environmental benefits. These measures proved to be well chosen, highly effective
and relevant throughout implementation.

23.     From an institutional perspective, the project was well placed within the Chinese
Government structure. The central implementing agency SOCAD is not only the major
public funds provider to the national agricultural development programs but also draws
on a fully developed organizational structure with offices at the national, provincial,
municipality and county/city levels. SOCAD fully committed its support structure,
dedicated project management offices and staff at all levels, and facilitated the in-depth
interaction and interviews with farmers, company representatives and local government
officials during preparation and implementation.

2.2 Implementation

24.     Government commitment. The project was implemented under the leadership of
an experienced and well organized SOCAD Project Management Office (PMO). This
central PMO provided effective and timely guidance to the four provincial PMOs and
served as a reliable liaising partner for the Bank‘s task team. SOCAD‘s agreement to
provide 80 percent of the Bank loan to the provinces and lower levels in form of a non-
repayable grant (only 20 percent of the loan needed to be re-paid by lower levels to the
central level) was a strong demonstration of commitment to the project and allowed to
experiment with innovative public goods investments and public funding arrangements,
which would not have been possible if a full recovery of the loan from lower levels had
been required.

25.      Implementation support through broad range of expertise. The project covered
four provinces and supported a total of 113 sub-project investments. Implementation was
exceptionally challenging because sub-projects were very different in technical and
institutional nature and demanded various technical and managerial skills from the
implementers, including strong capacity in a wide range of technical and financial
                                            6
appraisal skills, procurement, supervision, and monitoring. A broad range of expertise
was drawn from both the government‘s line agencies and the Bank to support
implementation and proactively identify and solve technical implementation issues as
they emerged.

26.      Eligibility criteria and flexibility. Public advertising of the project and agreed
eligibility criteria documented in the PAD provided the necessary guidance for sub-
project selection. The implementers and the Bank team provided continuous and
effective monitoring and were flexible in their responses to any unforeseen changes or
difficulties. This was particularly important because the project operated in a dynamic
market environment and individual participating enterprises often encountered changes in
their business environment which needed to be addressed. For example, some of the
initially accepted sub-projects proposals had to be dropped because the original
commercial business rationale did no longer hold while others required changes in the
business and investment plans and had to be revised. The approval authority for sub-
projects and fund allocation remained with SOCAD and the Bank team (on a no objection
basis). Both took active and timely actions to respond to a dynamic implementation
environment.

27.     Out of a total of 130 sub-projects proposals that were originally approved for
implementation during the appraisal and implementation stages, 17 sub-projects were
cancelled before any investment was made because of changes in ownership or business
plans, change in land use and other factors the sub-projects were no longer deemed
eligible or promising. Funds were reallocated to other sub-projects. In total, 113 sub-
projects were implemented. Of these 105 were fully and successfully implemented while
eight sub-projects were only partially implemented.

28.     A mid-term review (MTR) was conducted in 2008 confirming the project concept
and scope as well as its implementation structure and overall fund allocation. A
restructuring or other significant modification was not considered necessary. The MTR
also provided an opportunity to adjust the Results Framework and revise some of the
weaker indicators but this opportunity was not taken.

29.     During 2008-2010, project implementation was affected by a Government internal
re-organization which particularly impacted Shaanxi. The organizational status of
POCAD, which housed the provincial PMO, as well as staff responsibilities remained
undecided for nearly two years. Project implementation was negatively affected for
about 1.5 years, affecting the implementation progress of several sub-projects in the
province. In 2010, POCAD was finally moved from the provincial poverty alleviation
office to the provincial finance department and implementation started to recover. To
make up for the lost implementation time and to improve performance, an action plan
was agreed and successfully implemented. However, the project could not fully catch up
on the delays in Shaanxi and a one-year project extension became necessary.




                                            7
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

30.     Project design fully recognized the importance of a sound quantitative as well as
qualitative M&E approach in supporting the learning objective of the project.
Nevertheless, the formulation of a Results Framework and M&E process that would
adequately capture the outcomes and lessons of such a complex operation was
challenging and two of the four key outcomes indicators were not optimally chosen.

31.     One indicator—percent increase in farmer income, particularly of resource poor
farmers—was impractical because general farm income increases were difficult to
attribute to specific project interventions and counterfactual controls were difficult to
identify given the uniqueness of the partnerships supported. A second key indicator—
SOCAD’s investment in company-farmer partnership models nationally—referred to the
scaling-up of models in non-project areas but went well beyond what was intended. The
PDO aimed only for innovative models with ‗a potential for scaling up‘ as opposed to the
ambitious assumption implicit in this indicator that such up-scaling would already happen
during implementation.

32.      In addition to quantifying measurable project outcomes, the design clearly
recognized the need for qualitative assessments to capture the ‗soft‘ aspects of
institutional innovation and technology diffusion. The M&E approach therefore included
an expert team, consisting of specialists from the Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, which was tasked to capture, analyze, and aggregate the project implementation
lessons based on qualitative assessments. In addition, each province engaged an
independent M&E team to analyze the outcomes from each sub-project investment.

33.     Bank supervision missions spent significant time and effort in working with the
expert team and provincial M&E teams to sharpen the qualitative analytical focus and
quality of the M&E. In particular, a simplified results framework was rolled out to each
sub-project and agreed between the provincial PMOs and the individual sub-project
owner to record and monitor sub-project specific indicators and targets including: (a)
degree of innovative features, (b) income and income distribution, (c) environmental
impact, and (d) social impact. In addition, a broader M&E framework was developed to
extract and disseminate the lessons from the project to improve the understanding and
rationale for public funding (why and in what areas are public funds justified to be used
for agricultural development); and document effective procedures for the use of public
funds (contracts with private partners, working with farmer cooperatives/associations,
etc.).

34.     The expert team mainly focused its efforts on assessing the incremental
measurable outputs and financial returns of various sub-projects but lacked the capacity
and rigor to explain sub-project performance and, more importantly, to derive a higher
level of understanding of why and under what circumstances public funding and public
private partnerships had yielded such results.

35.    In hindsight, a combination of international and national expertise in the expert
team could have helped to improve the qualitative analytical aspects of the M&E work.
                                           8
The PAD indicated that the expert team would draw on international expertise but despite
the availability of sufficient loan resources the Government decided during
implementation to use its own government funds for all M&E work and was unwilling to
recruit international technical assistance using loan funds or domestic counterpart funds.
A promising initiative to overcome this shortcoming was to organize an international
workshop on M&E and lessons learned with Bank co-financing and technical
contributions.

36.     Unfortunately, such workshop failed to materialize due to funding constraints on
the Bank side. Likewise, the one-year project extension without injecting additional
external assistance did not significantly contribute to an improvement in the qualitative
analytical aspects of the M&E framework.

37.     Overall, however, the project provided detailed and regular progress reports based
on the collected quantitative M&E data. It actively facilitated the exchange of
experiences among the provinces and sub-projects, allowed and promoted the continuous
learning from implementation, and promoted the replication of successful new models
during implementation. In particular, the provincial M&E teams that analyzed individual
sub-projects successfully documented a wide range of important implementation insights,
which were used as immediate feedback to improve local selection and supervision of
investments and stimulated a large number of research reports and policy studies around
project related subjects. Some success and failure stories were produced describing the
respective new institutional arrangements, technical innovations, and the social and
environmental benefits and were shared in newsletters from SOCAD, POCAD and at the
county levels and published on websites. Study tours were organized to visit sub-project
sites across project provinces and counties. M&E results were well utilized to inform
decisions and resource allocation. Well implemented sub-projects or counties were
rewarded with additional allocations while non-performing sub-projects were cancelled
or reduced in scope.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

38.     The project was classified as a Category B project. Given the nature of the
project with its large number of various sub-project investments, a cautious approach was
taken during preparation in assessing safeguards issues. Because it was anticipated that
the various sub-projects would involve asymmetries in economic strength and power
among the participating stakeholders, such as large commercial enterprises and small and
often unorganized farmers, specific attention was given to social safeguards. A full
social assessment was conducted and a special Multi-Ethnic Groups Social Assessment
Report was prepared in conformity with the Bank‘s Operational Directive/ Safeguard
Policy on Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, revised as OP4.10). Social concerns were
integrated into the design of the project, including support to existing and new farmer
organizations and formulation of a Farmer Beneficiaries Participation Framework,
including the Targeted Technology Transfer sub-component. The rule to provide at least
50 percent of funds directly to farmers or farmer associations in any sub-project
involving agro-processing and marketing companies was effective and ensured a fair


                                            9
sharing of value added. In order to guide any possible land acquisition or resettlement, a
Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared under OP4.10 (Involuntary Resettlement).

39.    Environmental concerns were also integrated into the project design. This
included sub-projects supporting Integrated Pest Management (IPM), Food Quality
Testing and Certification and investments in food safety. Support for bio-technology,
Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) other than support for DNA sequencing
capacity and GMO detection, or otherwise controversial types of technology were
excluded.

40.    Compliance with the Bank‘s social and environmental policies was monitored
during implementation and no issues were observed. No involuntary resettlement
occurred under the project.

41.     Procurement procedures followed Bank policy and agreed procedures with no
significant issues reported. Procurement supervision was timely and effective despite a
heavy demand for the Bank‘s procurement staff in terms of prior and post reviews largely
due to the high number of different procurement activities and stakeholders involved.
Many participants, in particular private sector entities, were not familiar with Bank
procedures designed for public sector procurement, which initially delayed
implementation. Awareness building started already at the sub-project proposal stage and
combined with training and the experience of the central PMO helped to speed up
procurement over time and to avoid any major procurement related issues or delays.

42.     Financial management was generally in compliance with Bank procedures.
Financial management arrangements were complex not only because of the large number
of project entities but also due to the different funding sources and different times of sub-
project approvals. This required funds from different sources to become available at the
same time while under different approval and accounting procedures. Counterpart funds
came from at least three different sources, government, private sector, and participating
households. The timely availability of government counterpart funds caused some
problems and was a regular issue noted in the Bank‘s financial management supervision.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

43.      For many sub-projects the project provided only a start-up investment. At the
time of closing and many investors had already expanded their operations based on the
initial project funding. For example, the company that implemented the ‗safe pork‘ sub-
project in Yangling (Shaanxi), had expanded its operation by project completion by
setting up two large scale training and demonstration facilities and by introducing high
technology in pig breeding and fattening. This investment is now influencing production
standards of pig production in the entire province. Similarly, the Anhui Academy of
Agricultural Science implemented a sub-project that introduced GMO detection
technology. Because of its good performance it has been assigned a national reference
status and has become the national authority to determine GMO for Chinese national
food and feed stuff imports. All service providing investments are fully operational and
collect fees for the services sustaining operation and financial sustainability.
                                             10
44.     SOCAD has expressed a strong interest for a follow-on project. Such a project
would build on the experiences and lessons learned under this project and address
modernization and restructuring of the agricultural sector with a vision for an
Agricultural Sector in China how it might look in 10-20 years from now. The lessons
learned with regard to facilitating, directing and partnering in a network of private and
public partners would be a valuable foundation for such a second phase project. Other
projects, such as a possible Agricultural Income Generating Project in poor rural areas
proposed by the Leading Group for Poverty Alleviation, are expected to significantly
benefit from this project as well.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

45.     The PDO and project design remained highly relevant and fully consistent with
national policy priorities and the Bank‘s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2006-2011
that succeeded the CAS of the preparation period. The project continued to support four
of the five CPS pillars, namely to: (a) integrate China into the world economy; (b)
manage resource scarcity and environmental challenges; (c) reduce poverty, inequality
and social exclusion; and (d) improve public and market institutions. The Government‘s
11th and 12th Five Year Plans (2006-10; 2011-15) prioritized a harmonious society that
balances economic growth with income distributional and environmental concerns. Such
a society is built on a modernized and efficient agricultural structure that generates high
quality growth and a more balanced urban-rural development. From a national as well as
from an international perspective, the project concept and design were highly forward
looking. Stimulating technical and institutional innovation through public private
partnerships has become a focus and mainstream in agricultural development in
developing countries.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

46.     The project fully achieved its core objective of developing and testing innovative
models for agricultural technology transfer and application that can be scaled up and, in
addition, generated substantial economic benefits for the participating farmers, farmer
associations, and enterprises. (For outputs by component see Annex 2). The PDO
entailed four specific aspects, as discussed below.

47.     Developing and Testing of Innovative Models. The project designed and
supported 113 sub-projects testing different institutional and technology transfer models.
About 95 percent of the 113 sub-projects (against a PAD target of 70 percent) provided
satisfactory or highly satisfactory results and yielded valuable lessons. The models
developed and tested are characterized by: (a) innovative institutional and partnership
arrangements, such as public sector research-company/ farmer association; researcher-
farmer; or researcher-company arrangements; (b) innovative funding arrangements; and
(c) innovative technologies fostered by new partnerships.


                                            11
48.     To abstract and consolidate the different types of models and nature of lessons
learned, an analysis and lessons learning framework was developed and applied. The
analysis not only shows the nature of innovative models developed and tested but also
provides an improved understanding and justification for the use of public funding for
agricultural development and for successfully overcoming market failures. Specific
achievements are as follows:

49.     The project developed models that demonstrated how to overcome technology
adoption barriers caused by fragmented production and small farm size through
partnership arrangements between company and farmer or farmer association. For
example, organic food production and IPM technology were introduced and adopted in
several sub-projects in Anhui and Shaanxi.

50.    These technologies could not have been adopted by individual farmers alone
without outside support because these technologies would have been too costly at the
individual farm level at start-up and farmers would not have been in a position to exploit
the commercial opportunities resulting from these innovations without the supporting
marketing infrastructure provided by the company partner.

51.    The project showed through many sub-projects that organizing farmers in
company farmer arrangements or farmers in farmer associations allowed them to enter
into higher value production through product branding, product certification (such as
green/organic food), and/or access to new markets, including export markets. Such
innovations were undertaken by companies as the driving force or, in other cases, by
farmer associations alone which demonstrates that well managed farmer associations can
become drivers of innovation themselves.

52.     Sub-projects demonstrated how public funds can be used to overcome temporary
market failures. Developing new products and markets often require a critical volume
and/or commitment of stakeholders over longer periods of time. A typical example is the
development of camphor production where a private investor sought support from the
local government and the project to organize farmers to plant the required number of
camphor trees and thus building a critical threshold volume of production required for a
viable processing facility.

53.    The project introduced various contract arrangements between government and
private entities and demonstrated that the private sector can successfully play an
important role in delivery of public goods and services. Many sub-projects included
farmer associations or companies to provide (public) animal health services, training of
farmers or other extension services through private channels. Most sub-projects in this
area involved targeting of poor farmers or disadvantaged groups. Several sub-projects
involved innovative technologies and environmental services such as the treatment of
manure, waste or crop residues.

54.    The project developed a partnership model with the China Women Federation
which successfully demonstrated for suitable agriculture technologies for women farmers

                                           12
but also for managerial skills of women as farm operators and entrepreneurs. This was
specifically relevant given the large-scale out-migration of male labor from rural to urban
areas across China.

55.     The project demonstrated the remaining important functions of the government in
important areas that cannot easily be taken over by the private sector. Such areas include
food safety, protection of intellectual and other property rights, development and
implementation of production regulations, and policy formulation. Successful sub-
projects with clear public service functions included, for example, the food quality
standards testing and certification sub-project in Yangling (Shaanxi), or GMO testing and
certification facility in Anhui.

56.     Income Generation and Benefit Sharing. The project fully achieved its objective
of generating economic growth and additional farm income through integration into high
value markets with the added value shared fairly among different stakeholders. Nearly
194,000 farm households benefitted directly from the project through added-value
agriculture production, additional income or entirely new lines of businesses with new
products and markets. Instead of using (absolute) increase in farm income as indicator,
net present value calculations (with an estimated opportunity cost of capital of 12
percent) were performed as an alternative measurement of income generation. The total
aggregate benefit generated by the project is estimated at RMB 865 million (or US$137.3
million), showing an impressive additional value and investment efficiency of the project.

57.    Most importantly this added value is well distributed along the value chain with
farmers generally receiving a higher share of the added value than company partners.
More than half (55 percent) of the project‘s value added income remained at the farm
household level, some 18 percent at the farmer cooperative level, and the remaining 27
percent at the company level. If only those sub-projects that involved farmers and
companies are being considered, 57 percent of the total generated benefit accrued to
farmers and 43 percent to companies. These results evidence a win-win result for
farmers and agro-business companies and validate the aspiration of the project design
both in terms of overall income generation and income distribution. (See Annex 3 for
Economic Analysis).

58.     Potential for scaling-up – impact on national funding programs. The project has
clearly influenced a wide range of policy decisions and triggered changes in national and
provincial agricultural support procedures. Many successfully tested models are ready
for replication or scaling-up under national and provincial agricultural support programs.
Although the specific policy impact of the project is not quantifiable noticeable scaling
up results have been achieved. The large number of policy documents which document
lessons and recommendations for application in the national programs and which were
released during project implementation, give a fair picture of the policy achievements of
the project.

59.   The project helped to develop a much more fundamental understanding of the role
and importance of farmer associations and cooperatives in the agriculture transformation

                                            13
process. Although no direct link can be established, the project design recognized early
the need for new institutional models and critical importance of farmer organizations for
agriculture development and may have contributed to the formulation of the Farmers‘
Professional Cooperatives Law stipulated in 2007. Also noteworthy, decision makers of
the Hunan PMO were involved in the drafting of the provincial law and regulations on
agricultural development and farmer associations and were able to incorporate the lessons
from the project related to investment selection criteria and procedures into the provincial
regulations.

60.    Identification of success factors and constraints. The project also fully achieved
its outcome indicator of identifying success factors and constraints, including the
following:

      Working with the private sector requires strong partners (government, enterprise,
       farmer association) which should be selected through transparent and competitive
       selection mechanisms with a clear definition of eligibility criteria.

      Public-private partnership arrangements can effectively deliver social and
       environmental public goods. They need to be guided by a clear understanding
       and definition of public good outcomes combined with specific contractual
       arrangements with objectives, indicators and milestone based targets.

      A combination of company and farm outreach support under a joint investment
       helps ensure a fair benefit sharing of the added value and avoid the risk that
       companies are using public funds to crowd out farm households.

      Monitoring of public-private partnership contracts and performance and the
       option to apply sanctions and to discontinue funding in case commitments are not
       fully met are critical for the success of such partnerships.

3.3 Efficiency

61.     A total of 91 sub-projects were financially analyzed with cash flow calculations
computed separately for each of the major stakeholder in the value chain, such as farmer
household, farmer cooperative and company. The additional income generated under the
project is impressive with an aggregated financial internal rate of return of 26 percent and
a net present value of RMB 865 million.

62.     The quantification of project benefits focused on financial net returns and benefit
sharing leaving out other important benefits resulting from the learning aspects of the
project, for example the application of lessons for other public private partnership
arrangements, and social and environmental benefits generated by individual sub-
projects. In case, these are being included, the economic returns can be expected to be
higher. Such benefits are, however, more intangible and in most cases would have been
extremely difficult to quantify.


                                            14
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

63.     The overall outcome is rated satisfactory. The project has demonstrated new
models of generating additional growth and rural incomes through organizational and
technical innovation combined with innovative funding and partnership arrangements in
China‘s rapidly transforming rural farm and non-farm sectors. The project has also
demonstrated that fair benefit sharing between companies and farmers including
disadvantaged and poor farmers is possible despite existing power imbalances. The
success rate of private sector investments and the innovation features emerging from the
project-supported investments have far exceeded expectations. The project has in many
ways stimulated the government‘s thinking on the future of its national and provincial
agricultural development and support agenda.

64.     While project outcomes and lessons have exceeded the expectations at appraisal,
some of the success stories could have been analyzed and presented more systematically
through a more qualitative analytical approach to M&E drawing on international
expertise and best practice. In addition, the opportunity to gain in-depth insights into the
economic efficiency of public sector funding in agriculture has not been exhausted.
While it was sensible to expect the replication and up-scaling after the closing of the
project, the indicator included in the Results Framework to measure replication outside
the project areas was clearly too ambitious. However, all these latter aspects have been
beyond the scope of the PDO. A satisfactory rating of overall outcome remains well
justified.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

65.     The total number of participating households is estimated at 194,000 (households
receiving project support) while some 7.4 million households benefitted from improved
services provided through the project (indirect beneficiaries).

66.     Women farmers in particular benefitted from the project. According to the
project‘s beneficiaries‘ survey, the share of women among the directly participating
beneficiaries was about 70 percent and for the beneficiaries benefitting from improved
services the share of women was about 60 percent. They are a reflection of the changing
demographics in China‘s rural areas where many farms are de-facto operated by women
as the result of male labor outmigration. Women were quick in filling the gaps and were
willing to take significant entrepreneurial risk by adopting new technologies and engage
in new organizational arrangements.

67.    In addition to these general trends, the project has specifically targeted women
farmers under a sub-component implemented by the All China Women Federation. This
sub-component focused exclusively on women beneficiaries and was entirely
implemented by women. It supported technologies (vegetable production, chicken

                                              15
raising, handicraft) and managerial skills suitable for women farmers and entrepreneurs
and was one of the most successful sub-components in the project.

68.     The income generating impact and the benefit sharing of value addition between
farmers and companies is described above. In addition, a number of sub-projects
received project funding as they targeted poor areas and poor farmers and thus were
selected based on their social public goods nature. Specifically, a number of companies
received project funding to develop raw material supply in poor areas. Examples are a
mulberry processing company in Yangling to develop production in poor mountainous
areas in Ankang County of Shaanxi and a company that invested in breeding the
genetically valuable ‗Wei Pigs‘ and targeted women headed households in a poor area
with limited farmland resources.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

69.     Most project activities included the development of new institutional models, as
discussed above. In addition, the project also supported the participation and integration
of public sector research institutions and researchers into the project-supported
agricultural investments. The two main arrangements implemented included: (a)
shareholding arrangements where an individual researcher became a shareholder of a
company or a farmer cooperative. Often the participating researchers provided additional
capital investments, and (b) contractual arrangements where the investing company or
farmer association entered into a long-term contract with a research institution or
individual researcher to support the investment or business operation.

70.     The close linkage of research and production/processing business supported the
quick technology transfer and adoption as well as a direct feed-back into the research
system. In some cases the research institutions were engaged on a retainer basis to
provide technical support to maintain the company‘s competitiveness and product
quality, such as IPM in production of organic vegetables. Some of the supported sub-
projects facilitated a change in the operational model in reaching farmers. For example,
the IPM component in Yangling or the web-based Information Service System in Anhui.
Telephone and SMS and internet assisted interaction channels were opened between IPM
specialists and farmers thereby expanding the outreach of technical advice through
modern communication technology in a demand responsive way. A number of sub-
projects were also able to provide goods at the national level such as nationally approved
protocols for organic production of several root and tuber crops and vegetables
(Certification Center in Yangling).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

71.     The project pioneered some of the thinking and influenced the World Bank‘s
agricultural development agenda as documented in a range of recent presentations and
documents, notably the Agricultural Innovation Systems Sourcebook (2012).




                                           16
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

72.    A satisfaction survey of members of farmer associations that had received project
support was conducted at project completion. The survey involved 45 cooperatives/
associations and included interviews with 875 farmers of which 623 were women. The
evaluation included questions related to technical service provision, importance of the
association for input supply, marketing, and price finding, relevance of the association for
individual farming decisions, and the general satisfaction of farmers with the work of the
associations. The aggregated satisfaction level of members with the work of their
associations was rated high, scoring 4.2 on a scale from 0 to 5. It is worth noting that the
technical services provider function of the associations was considered most important
while marketing and economic support functions were rated lower.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

73.     The project has successfully established models demonstrating how to generate additional
farm income in high value markets through technical and institutional innovation. These
experiences and lessons will remain valid even under the unlikely event of significant changes in
the macro-economic or political environment. There are good conditions that the project-
generated outcomes face a low or even negligible risk. The following specific risks to the
development outcome have been identified and are discussed.

         Political risk: The political reform agenda in China continues to be highly
          supportive to the project concept and its objective, and agriculture modernization
          in general. Agricultural restructuring efforts continue to aim for the vertical
          integration of production systems along the value chain through farmer-company
          and farmer associations, and companies engaging in contractual arrangements.

         Institutional risk: Farmer associations were supported as new institutional
          arrangement under the project and are gaining increasing importance with a
          plurality of organizational arrangements and functions. China‘s Law on Farmer
          Cooperatives (2007) provides the legal foundation for such cooperatives.
          Government policy also supports the role of the private sector in technology
          development and service delivery and public research institutions are encouraged
          to engage with the private sector.

         Technical risk: All technologies introduced under the project are proven and well
          tested. The project avoided supporting the more sensitive technologies such as
          biotechnology and other technologies related to unclear of disputed intellectual
          property rights.

         Financial and sustainability risk: Most sub-projects were financially profitable
          and well established in their markets at the time of completion. Service delivery
          entities have a large and growing client basis and collect fees which are sufficient
          to ensure financial sustainability. Some of the supported laboratory facilities have

                                               17
       already begun making investments in additional equipment in response to high
       demand for such services.

      International market risks: Some of the sub-projects are reaching international
       markets (e.g. organic apple or mushrooms) and their revenues are subject to
       currency exchange rate or other potential future foreign market access restrictions,
       for example as a consequence of food safety concerns. However, those
       enterprises are few and their foreign market dependency is low. In the event of
       major access restrictions those few enterprises can shift towards national markets.

      Social risk: Many sub-projects created social benefits through production in
       remote poor areas. There is a risk that some companies may shift their production
       base from these areas to more accessible areas to lower transaction costs. This
       risk is expected to be low because many sub-projects involve perennial tree
       cropping together with long-term infrastructure investments, which cannot be
       moved easily.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

74.      The project objective and design were realistic, technically and institutionally
innovative, and fully consistent with the national and Bank policy priorities for
agricultural development in China. Social and environmental safeguards were well
integrated into project design. The Bank team included a small number of highly
experienced experts covering all relevant fields of expertise and played a vital role in
ensuring that the project design was sound and responsive to the sector challenges to be
addressed. The project was well prepared based on an intensive and interactive process
with all stakeholders which ensured the successful and high quality implementation of
vast majority of the selected sub-projects. The Bank team established a mutually
respectful and efficient working relationship with the client, and provided the inspiration
for mind-set change and innovation. The project established a rigorous and stringent set
of selection criteria for sub-project selection and approval. The Bank team also spent a
significant amount of time in visiting hundreds of often dispersed and remote sub-project
sites to interview the farmers, companies and other stakeholders. Appraisal of individual
sub-projects was sound and based on firsthand knowledge, and detailed advice and
guidance were provided to improve the proposals before approval and implementation.
A quality at entry review did not take place.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory


                                            18
75.     The Bank conducted supervision missions twice a year and provided additional
implementation support as needed through Beijing office staff, including financial
management and procurement. Supervision was demanding as it involved continuous
sub-project appraisal and re-appraisal of new or modified sub-projects proposals during
the initial years of implementation and, thereafter, intense supervision of a large number
of different types of investments scattered widely across the four project provinces. The
Bank team included highly qualified specialists covering technical as well as economic
and institutional aspects but Bank supervision resources were constrained and may have
been limited for supervising an intensive learning project. The task team drew on some
supplemental FAO resources which proved to be critical for the supervision. Supervision
missions regularly included fiduciary, social and environmental safeguards specialists.

76.     The supervision strategy was based on a close Bank-SOCAD partnership and
joint supervision. In the field, timely decisions were made concerning the approval or
rejection of sub-project investment approvals as well as fund allocation and/or re-
allocation. Such decisions were made based on a consensus between the Bank team and
SOCAD and POCADs, which helped create trust and mutual respects.

77.     Technical supervision of sub-projects was sound and the advice provided on how
to improve implementation was much appreciated. The supervision team documented its
findings and recommendations in well prepared aide memoirs which included time bound
agreed action plans and served as important reference documents for the implementing
agencies. Discussions with private sector investors were recorded in detailed field visit
notes filed as separate documents to ensure confidentiality. These field notes were very
helpful in terms of identifying issues and tracking progress and follow-up actions. This
method of documentation was introduced in the national system as good practice and use
for domestic supervision purposes.

78.     In hindsight, a better resourced supervision approach could have helped to lead a
more comprehensive policy dialogue on strategic aspects of agricultural sector
transformation in parallel to project implementation and to address the shortcomings in
the qualitative M&E more decisively. As above, a quality of supervision review did not
take place.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

79.    The project was highly relevant to country needs and fully in line with Bank and
country policies. It was well prepared, highly innovative and relevant, and contained all
the necessary safeguards. It was professionally and continuously supported during
implementation and corrective measures were taken whenever necessary.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance


                                            19
Rating: Satisfactory

80.     The government at the central and local levels was highly committed to the
objective and design of the project as the project was fully aligned with and reflected
national and provincial priorities in agricultural development. On-going agricultural
restructuring efforts during project implementation remained consistent with the project
objective. Government policies were particularly supportive when a new law regulating
the functions and modus operandi of farmer cooperatives was put in force in 2007. A
large number of high level Government officers visited project sites on many occasions,
which demonstrated ownership, helped to boost morale and implementation performance.

81.     The government was willing to engage in policy dialogue at the preparation stage
and adopt innovative approaches despite the lengthy process to appraise and supervise
projects. The central government counterpart funding provision and partial loan
repayment through the central government was highly satisfactory and a crucial success
factor of the project.

82.    The institutional arrangement and staffing at central PMO and three provincial
PMOs were highly satisfactory while the delays in the government restructuring in
Shaanxi province affected the implementation of some sub-projects in the province and
required an extension of the project.

83.     While most provincial PMOs provided fully adequate oversight and
implementation support, the provision of government counterpart funds was delayed in
some provinces. Besides, the project would have benefitted from using a small portion
of the Bank loan for impact evaluation involving international expertise, as had originally
been envisaged in the project design.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

84.     The central, provincial, and local PMOs worked with the Bank team
constructively and in close partnership. The central PMO in SOCAD maintained a good
control of all project activities. In addition to joint Bank-SOCAD supervision, the PMOs
conducted their internal regular field supervision missions throughout the implementation
period and emerging project management issues were addressed in a timely manner. In
addition, a large number of training workshops were organized by the central PMO and
the provincial PMOs. After some initial difficulties, the implementing agencies managed
this complex project professionally and with a strong commitment towards its objective.
The competitive selection of sub-project investments was a labor-intensive and
challenging process that was accepted and increasingly owned by all PMOs.

85.     The capacity and effectiveness of the provincial PMO in Shaanxi was impacted
for about 1.5 years because of a delayed internal government restructuring but this did
not significantly impact overall implementation or final project outcomes.


                                            20
86.    No major fiduciary issues were observed during implementation. Financial
management remained a concern because of shortages and delays in government
counterpart fund provision, which in the end did not affect the project outcomes. Overall
the contribution from project beneficiaries, particularly private sector partners, more than
compensated for the shortages in public counterpart funds, ensuring the timely
completion of sub-projects.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

87.    Borrower performance was satisfactory throughout project implementation and, in
the most provinces, even highly satisfactory. Implementation delays in Shaanxi
negatively impacted the timely completion of a small number of sub-projects but these
delays were temporary. Using some of the Bank loan for high quality analytical work
and consolidation of project results of more qualitative nature would have added even
more value and would have justified a highly satisfactory borrower performance rating.
Because this was the only shortcoming on the side of the Borrower, overall borrower
performance is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

88.     The project was conceived and designed as a learning project and yielded a wide
range of important lessons relevant to agriculture sector modernization which can be
replicated within China and internationally. Lessons of interest and relevance to similar
operations (project specific lessons) and for wider general application in context of
agriculture sector reforms (general operational lessons) include the following:

Project specific lessons including lessons applicable to similar operations

89.     Technology adoption constraints caused by fragmented production and small
farm size can be overcome with innovative partnership arrangements. The project
effectively demonstrated that technology barriers caused by fragmented production and
small farm size can be overcome through partnership arrangements between companies
and farmers or farmer associations. For example, it is challenging for individual
(smallholder) farmers to adopt organic food production and/or IPM technology because
the limited farm size does not allow to effectively exploit the commercial opportunities of
such technologies. Economies of scale in technology application can be realized through
partnerships and significant commercial benefits be generated for all partners involved.

90.     Adding value in agricultural production with a fair distribution of benefits needs
effective organizational arrangements.       Organizing farmers in company-farmer
arrangements or establishing farmer organizations allows stakeholders to enter more
easily into higher value production through product branding, certification, or access to
new and export markets because of scale effects.          Companies as well as farmer
organizations can both serve as driving force for such value addition through innovation.

                                            21
In both cases, support to farmer associations will allow for a fair sharing of the
incremental value generated.

91.     Successful public-private partnership needs clear selection procedures, outcome
definition and contractual arrangements. Transparent competitive selection mechanisms
with a clear definition of eligibility criteria for public funding, well defined public good
outcomes, and sanctions are important success factors in public-private partnership
models. Under the project, outcomes and public funding modalities were agreed in
written contracts which were monitored for compliance and, in cases of non-compliance,
such contracts or sub-projects were stopped or restructured.

92.     Public goods can be successfully delivered through Public-Private-Partnerships.
Private institutions can play an important role in delivering public goods and services in a
cost effective way and with high quality. Under the project, farmer associations and
companies entered into contractual arrangements with government to provide public
animal health services, training of farmers or other extension services.

93.     In addition, such contractual arrangements allowed the government to specifically
target poor farmers and disadvantaged groups. Similarly, several sub-projects involved
innovative technologies and environmental services such as the treatment of manure,
waste or crop residues or the protection of valuable genetic resources, activities which
have a clear public goods character.

94.     Public support can address market failures and help generate a critical mass of
raw material production with different stakeholders. Developing new products and
markets requires a critical volume and commitment of stakeholders to produce specific
crops or raw materials. Public funds are an effective tool to overcome temporary market
failures. For example, the development of camphor required organizing farmers as well
as farmers‘ commitment to plant camphor trees on a large scale to reach a critical
production volume required for a commercially viable processing facility. Public funding
provided the incentive to a private sector enterprise to partner with farmers and to invest
in long-term camphor production.

95.    Structural social issues, particular gender, require attention and need to seek and
design specific solutions. The out-migration of male labor from many rural areas across
China has dramatically increased the demand for technologies suitable for women
farmers and requires a focus on developing and improving the managerial skills of
women as farm operators and risk taking entrepreneurs. The project developed a
partnership model with the China Women Federation, which successfully addressed these
needs.

Lessons for a general application

96.     A critical analysis of the sectoral context is important for the design and
formulation of a clear objective. One of the important success factors of the project was
that it was based on a critical analysis of the sectoral context and it had a clear objective

                                             22
that was based on a realistic development perspective for the agricultural sector. For
example, a conscious and explicit decision was made to aim for income and value
generation instead of quantity and productivity increases with far reaching implications
for the design and approval of individual sub-projects. Similarly, the recognition that
farm incomes had a high priority in the Chinese urban-rural income disparity context, an
explicit decision was made that investments should be farmer-based and be implemented
through farmer groups and/or in combination with enterprise investments.

97.     Sufficient preparation time and resources are needed to allow for a change in
mind-set. The project had an ambitious objective of changing the mind-set of various
actors in the agriculture sector by introducing new models of cooperation between the
private and public sectors. The project took time to build the capacity and competence
with the SOCAD system at national, provincial and county levels and to change the way
SOCAD‘s representatives thought of agricultural development. In addition, the project
took a phased approach: an unallocated innovation fund allowed extra time for nurturing
and selection of emerging farmer associations and innovative investment proposals. It
also helped promote common understanding of the PDO and the ownership of
innovations.

98.     Innovative learning projects require adequate funds for analytical work and
exchange opportunities. The Bank‘s regular supervision budget is generally not
sufficient to allow for supplementary analytical work in this kind of learning projects.
There are also difficulties in mobilizing additional funding for specific learning and
analytical tasks. In the case of this project, the presentation of the project outcomes and
impact of lessons learned might have benefitted from more resources for analytical work,
including a more structured exchange of experience. To exploit the full potential of
emerging lessons from the project, a defined mechanism to allow lessons to be absorbed
would be useful. This could take the form of stakeholder workshops, international
consultancy, and other ways.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

99.    A summary of the borrower‘s completion report is included in this ICR in Annex6

(b) Cofinanciers: Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders: Not applicable




                                            23
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)a/
                                                    Appraisal                   Actual/Latest
                                                    Estimate                      Estimate          Percentage
                    Components                    (USD millions)               (USD millions)      of Appraisal
 1. Technology Transfer Information Markets and
 Services                                                  15.5                           16.0         103.8%
 2. Promotion of Commercially Attractive Key
 Technologies
      a) Research-Investor-Farmer Technologies           134.5                           204.1         151.8%
      b) Targeted Technology Transfer                       1.4                            3.4         246.4%
      c) Public Sector Support Programs                     5.5                           12.6         229.9%
      d) Innovation Support Fund b/                        16.7
                                         Subtotal        158.0
 3. Project Support                                        14.4                             8.7          60.1%
 Total Baseline Cost                                     187.9
            Physical Contingencies                         11.2
            Price Contingencies c/                          7.7
 Total Project Costs                                     206.9                           244.8         118.4%
            Front-end Fee                                   0.5                            0.5         100.0%
 Total Financing Required                                207.4                           245.3         118.3%
a/ Expenditures in RMB are converted with an average ex-change rate of 6.936 RMB/1 USD
b/ The ‗Innovation Support Fund‘ was not a sub-component, but contained unallocated funds for sub-
projects to be appraised during implementation.
c/ The price contingency provisions turned out too low. It is estimated that the average cost increased were
at least 20% largely explaining the cost overrun of the project.


(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal           Actual/Latest
                                           Type of Co                                               Percentage
           Source of Funds                                  Estimate              Estimate
                                            financing                                              of Appraisal
                                                          (USD millions)       (USD millions)
World Bank IBRD Loan a/                        Loan              100.0                 100.0           100.0%
Companies                                                          60.4                 72.7           120.4%
Farmers                                                            30.7                 41.5           135.2%
Government                                                         16.3                 31.1           190.5%
Total                                                            207.4                 245.3           118.3%
a/ At appraisal an ex-change rate of 8.27 RMB/1 USD was assumed. The appreciation of the RMB during
project implementation, up to a value of 6.3 RMB/1 USD at the end of the project, caused a shortfall in
funding, which was in addition to the price increases balanced by additional funds from beneficiaries and
Government sources.




                                                    24
                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.     Technology Transfer and Information Markets and Services (USD16.0
million)

Under this sub-component the project supported 6 sub-projects:
                                                                        Total Investment
  Province     Sub-project                                             (USD mill.) Bank
                                                                          (share in %)
   Shaanxi    Agricultural Products Market Phase 1, Xianyang           4.04       36%
   Shaanxi    Agricultural Products Market Phase 2, Xianyang           4.04       36%
 Heilongjiang New Energy, Technology Demonstration, Hongqi             1.97       53%
              Dairy + Pig Technology Demonstration,
 Heilongjiang                                                          2.94       48%
              DeHaishun
 Heilongjiang Edible Fungus Technology Demonstration, YuFeng           1.48       49%
 Heilongjiang Red Table Grape Technology Demonstration,
                                                                       1.57       70%
              BinDong

1.      This component included the financing of demonstration and exhibition facilities.
These facilities were generally combined with applied research providing researchers
opportunities to test new technologies under real production conditions in a market
environment. About 640 research studies were carried out at these facilities during
implementation. At the same time these facilities were used (and continue to be used) by
farmers to visit and learn advanced technology packages. Among the visiting farmers,
some 3,200 have received specific training and about 75 percent of them have adopted
technologies demonstrated under the project. The development outcomes of these
investments show that facilities supported with public funds where new technologies can
be tested and demonstrated are a successful way for technology transfer. Two examples
are being described below.

2.      In Heilongjiang, the project invested in the Agricultural Technology
Demonstrations Zone in Hongqi. The investment involved technology packages focused
on pig and cattle breeding, mushroom production, grape production and energy
conservation. The most impressive injection of innovative ideas and technologies was
probably done under the energy conservation activity where the private owner introduced
a wealth of ideas. These included energy regeneration, recycling of waste, combinations
of livestock and vegetable production in energy autarkic so-called ‗5-in-1‘ or ‗7-in-1‘
greenhouses, combining multiple functions, such as vegetable and fodder production,
livestock raising, biogas, waste composting, water recycling, thermal energy absorption
and storage, in one single greenhouse.

3.      In Shaanxi, the component supported the construction of a large wholesale market
for vegetables in Xianyang. Today, this market is handling about 4.5 million tons of
vegetables annually with an estimated value of RMB 5billion. It serves as a major
distribution hub supplying about 90 percent of all vegetables consumed by a population
of about 15 million people of the city of Xian and delivers vegetables to a large number
of other provinces. An estimated 400-500,000 producers sell vegetables through this

                                           25
market. By providing marketing security, the market allows producers not only to sell
their production but also to receive price incentives for premium quality, off-season
supply or diversified and niche market production (green food and organic vegetables).

4.      The market significantly contributed to the downward diffusion of vegetable
production technologies and product quality. Based on the early success and importance
of this market, the project entered into a second phase investment to add a food safety
and quality testing laboratory to the market. The testing facility is well placed to monitor
and control food safety at the place of its highest concentration before products get
released to the consumer.

   2. Promotion of Commercially Attractive Key Technologies (USD 220.1 million)

Research-Investor-Farmer Technologies (USD 204.1 million).

Under this sub-component the project supported a total of 99 sub-projects:
                                                                          Total Investment (USD
  Province      Sub-project                                               mill.) Bank (share in %)
   Shaanxi      Forest and Fruit Seedling, Yintai                             1.92        42%
   Shaanxi      ‗Safe' Pork Production, Yangling                             10.02        39%
   Shaanxi      Dairy Technology Support, Chengcang                           2.32        45%
   Shaanxi      Qinchuan Cattle, Fufeng                                       2.29        50%
   Shaanxi      Strawberry Production & Processing, Gaolin
                                                                             0.04        100%
                (cancelled)
   Shaanxi      Flower seed balls, Yangling                                   4.73        49%
   Shaanxi      Water Saving Technology Demonstration, Yangling              10.05        38%
   Shaanxi      Dairy Technology Support, Yangling                            2.88        51%
   Shaanxi      Apple seedling ,Yangling                                      2.95        44%
   Shaanxi      Grape and wine, Yaozhou                                       2.22        38%
   Shaanxi      Qinchuan Beef Cattle, Meixian                                 2.62        35%
   Shaanxi      Mulberry Fruit Production, Yangling                           5.59        26%
   Shaanxi      Goat Dairy, Yangling                                          3.81        38%
   Shaanxi      Silkworm, Qianyang                                            1.10        34%
   Shaanxi      Goat Development, Yaozhou                                     2.57        38%
   Shaanxi      Apple Development, Tongchuan                                  2.75        60%
   Shaanxi      Goat Breeding, Fuping                                         3.40        43%
   Shaanxi      Dairy Development, Wugong (cancelled)                         0.22       100%
   Shaanxi      Organic Vegetable Production, Taibai                          4.27        40%
   Shaanxi      Mushroom, Baqiao                                              1.89        34%
   Shaanxi      Chinese Traditional Herbs Production, Yangling                3.79        43%
   Shaanxi      Chinese Herbal Medicine, Xianyang                             1.40        47%
   Shaanxi      VOG, Yangling                                                 1.25        55%
   Shaanxi      Big Cherry, Tongchuan                                         2.78        38%
   Hunan        Huilong Jiaotou, Changsha (Vegetable)                         4.25        27%
   Hunan        Melon and Fruit Farm, Shaoyang City                           5.58        27%
   Hunan        Beef Cattle, Lianyuan City                                    6.74        25%

                                            26
                                                            Total Investment (USD
Province   Sub-project                                      mill.) Bank (share in %)
 Hunan     Beef Cattle, Jiahua (cancelled)                     1.78         47%
 Hunan     Zhenghong Pig Production                            0.56         89%
 Hunan     Oil-Tea Project, Chaling County                     6.10         31%
 Hunan     Cyclocarya, Suining                                 1.41         52%
 Hunan     Two-Line Super Hybrid Paddy                         5.84         32%
 Hunan     Bamboo, Taojiang                                    0.56         37%
 Hunan     Staw Mats Cooperatives, Hengshan                    0.37         48%
 Hunan     Nuisance Free Vegetable, Changsha county            0.16         46%
 Hunan     Herb Association, Liuyang                           0.18         59%
 Hunan     Chengbu Off-season Vegetables                       0.19         48%
 Hunan     Anhua Fruit                                         0.26         46%
 Hunan     Sanjiang Livestock Cooperatives, Taoyuan            0.21         55%
 Hunan     Gangtang Chinese Medicine , Shuangfeng              0.24         33%
 Hunan     Xinong Culture, Yanling                             0.22         50%
 Hunan     Lotus Seed, Xiangtan                                0.18         55%
 Hunan     Bamboo Shoot, Suining                               0.23         53%
 Hunan     Bingtangcheng Orange, Yongxing                      0.22         49%
 Hunan     Citrus Association, Shimen                          0.17         50%
 Hunan     Ziyang District Potato, Yiyang                      0.24         46%
 Hunan     Sweet-potato Vermicelli, Cili                       0.34         31%
 Hunan     Sangzhi Culture                                     0.18         53%
 Hunan     Citrus Association, Mayang                          0.16         60%
 Hunan     Ningxiang, Pig                                      1.37         48%
 Hunan     Purple Shale Date Production, Hengyang County       2.22         28%
 Hunan     Berkshire Pig, Loudi                                1.60         40%
 Hunan     New Mulberry, Xiangxiang                            2.90         27%
 Hunan     Cyclocarya, Suining                                 1.40         18%
 Hunan     Super Hybrid Rice, Zhuzhou                          1.73         44%
 Hunan     High Quality Peach, Xu Pu                           1.34         38%
 Hunan     Ningxiang Tea                                       3.25         28%
 Anhui     Pear Production & Fresh Keeping, Dangshan           4.62         34%
 Anhui     Duck Meat Project, Huaibei                          3.82         31%
 Anhui     Native Cattle, Mengcheng (cancelled)                1.84         38%
 Anhui     Rice and Wheat Seed Improvement, Bengbu             2.86         31%
 Anhui     Broiler Chicken, Guangde                            5.73         33%
 Anhui     Alpine Wild Rice Stem by Fuyuan Company, Yuexi      0.80         43%
 Anhui     Non-Polluted Sweet Potato and Beans, Chizhou        3.98         34%
 Anhui     Goat Producer Association, Yeji                     4.68         39%
 Anhui     Organic Tea Production, Shexian                     4.06         34%
 Anhui     Duck Production, ChenXin Company, Hexian            3.32         29%
 Anhui     Wei Pig Conservation by Antai Company, Guangde      1.91         51%
 Anhui     Duck Waste Treatment, Taiyang Company, Ningguo      2.30         42%
 Anhui     Gasification of Crop Residues, Wuhu                 1.56         32%

                                  27
                                                                          Total Investment (USD
   Province     Sub-project                                               mill.) Bank (share in %)
   Anhui     Flower Seedling, Feixi (cancelled)                              0.29          6%
   Anhui     Lean Meat Pigs, Dangtu                                          0.25         16%
Heilongjiang Silage, Shuangcheng                                             2.17         31%
Heilongjiang Breeding pig, Sanyun                                            1.45         51%
Heilongjiang Soybean Seed Improvement, Fujin                                 1.52         67%
Heilongjiang Soybean Seed Improvement, Hailun                                1.59         72%
Heilongjiang Soybean Seed Improvement, Binxian (cancelled)                   3.93         29%
Heilongjiang Seed Potatoes Production, Nehe                                  1.26         77%
Heilongjiang Manure Treatment Yinluo, Daqing                                 2.75         73%
Heilongjiang Pig Raising Technology, Jixi                                    1.89         31%
Heilongjiang Rabbit Production, Qiqihaer                                     3.65         29%
Heilongjiang Breeding Pigs, Big White Pig                                    1.92         30%
Heilongjiang Paddy Rice FA, Hailin                                           1.26         47%
Heilongjiang Manure Treatment, Suihua                                        0.89         36%
Heilongjiang Manure Treatment, Fuyu                                          0.95         32%
Heilongjiang Mushroom FA, Yichun                                             0.75         40%
Heilongjiang Agricultural Machinery FA, NingAn                               0.43         35%
Heilongjiang Agricultural Machinery FA, QingAn                               0.28         55%
Heilongjiang Agricultural Machinery FA, Aihui                                0.24         62%
Heilongjiang Paddy rice FA, Jiamusi                                          0.76         35%
Heilongjiang Agricultural Machinery FA, Bei'an                               0.52         51%
Heilongjiang Vegetable Seeding, ChangFa                                      0.57         35%
Heilongjiang Edible Fungi FA, Tongjiang                                      0.36         42%
Heilongjiang Paddy Rice FA, Huachuan                                         0.56         27%
Heilongjiang Non-polluted Rice, Hua'nan                                      2.10          6%
Heilongjiang Rabbit Raising, Fuyuan                                          0.60         23%
Heilongjiang Black Bee Conservation, Raohe                                   0.25         51%
Heilongjiang Antibiotics-free Milk, Hulan (cancelled)                        0.25        100%
Heilongjiang Soybean Peptide, Binxian (cancelled)                            0.16        100%
FA: Farmer Association

5.      Project Agreements: Project agreements were introduced under the project to be
signed between the between the PMOs and the enterprise and farmer association partners.
These agreements stated the rights and responsibilities of each stakeholder, the financing
arrangements, and the expected public goods outcomes. They also included a number of
indicators to measure the outcomes. The vast majority of the private sector partners met
their obligations and 91 out of 99 sub-projects were implemented successfully. Eight
sub-projects (included in the table above) were cancelled during implementation because:
(a) the companies turned out to be financially or managerially too weak and could not
provide their counterparts funds according to their business plans (e.g. the Heilongjiang
antibiotics-free milk sub-project); (b) the private partners did not fulfill the public goods
outcome objective and shifted the focus of the investment exclusively towards
commercial purposes (e.g. Flower Seed Production in Feixi, the Dairy Development in
Wugong, or the Beef Cattle in Jiahua); or (c) unexpected external changes affected the

                                             28
sub-project, such a rezoning of the production area of the Strawberry Development in
Gaolin into a an industrial development zone).

6.     From a development perspective, it has been critical to guide the use of public
funds investments for private entities through clearly defined public goods outcomes.
Such outcomes were agreed in written contracts, which were monitored for
implementation progress and compliance with the agreements and which could have been
stooped in case of non-compliance.

7.      Understanding the Nature of Public Goods: A large number of sub-project
investments under this component addressed public goods delivery in the agricultural
sector and demonstrated ways for accelerated innovation and technology transfer. While
it is not possible to describe each of these sub-projects in detail, some of the general
features of these sub-projects area as:

Overcoming technology and market access barriers caused by small farm size and a high
degree of fragmentation:

8.      The project invested in a large number of sub-projects which involved a higher
level of organization of produces (horizontal integration of production). The project
provided management and technical training was well as start-up investments for a large
number of farmer associations. This allowed them to apply advanced technologies and/or
enter into higher value product markets. Different categories of farmer associations
emerged from the project: (i) Machinery associations, for example in Heilongjiang,
which increased mechanization levels, labor efficiency and farm productivity. Some of
the machinery associations were combined with land consolidation and cooperative
production arrangements. This permitted part of rural labor to take off-farm jobs and
increased the overall income. (ii) Special products associations, which were formed to
create a critical volume of a high value product. Examples included farmer associations
that produce and market straw mats, products from bamboo shoots, wild rice, lotus seed,
organic fruits or vegetables are. These farmer associations provide services, ensure that
production standards are being met, and market their products. (iii) Associations formed
as partners of companies (e.g. processors, traders, seed companies, etc.). Examples under
the project include numerous associations that produce seeds for seed companies or
livestock products for large processing enterprises.

9.     From a development perspective, the project demonstrated that initial public
funding together with institutional and legal support for farmer associations can
successfully overcome technology adoption and market access constraints.

Overcoming market failures related to insufficient volume, time gaps and different
stakeholders:

10.    The project supported a number of sub-projects that developed and introduced
new technologies and products which would not have been developed by market forces
alone. For example, the production of organic tea in Shexian (Anhui) or the development

                                           29
of medicinal crop (Cyclocarya spec.) production in Suining (Hunan) required for the
processor‘s investment decision and assurance of sufficient volume of production years
before the processor would start investment. Typically in such situation individual
farmers were interested, but they were not sure that somebody will buy the product. On
the other side processors were unwilling to invest unless they had assurance of sufficient
raw material.

11.     From a development perspective the project demonstrated that public funds can
usefully overcome this deadlock at the start-up phase of developing a new product.

Partnering with private sector entities to produce public goods:

12.      The project invested in a range of sub-projects where private companies were
supported directly to deliver public goods in public-private partnership arrangements.
This included for example five waste treatment sub-projects with the objective to test
technical solutions and financial viability. A large-scale manure treatment plant (capacity
of treating manure from some 20,000 animal units) and two medium-size plants (200-400
animal units) in Heilongjiang using different fermentation/composting technologies were
supported. They proved the operational and financial viability of the technologies.
Similarly, in Anhui a large-scale treatment and composting facility for duck manure with
a capacity 50,000 tons from some 15 million birds was implemented as well as a
gasification plant using wheat straw and producing and selling gas to 300 connected
households. These investments were combined with operational arrangements of
collecting/ purchasing waste products from farmers and selling the produce (organic
manure, gas). While the gasification plant suffered from some co-financing issues, these
five operations delivered also important insights for future policy making including
environmental regulations.

13.     From a development perspective, these investments did not only introduce and
test technical solutions but are also analyzed the commercial and financial parameters of
these technologies with the objective to find out how the competitiveness of the sector is
influenced, if for example manure treatment is made mandatory for the industry.

14.     A different environmental concern was addressed by several genetic resource
protection sub-projects. These included indigenous pig and cattle varieties with the
objective to develop commercial interests for the protection of these resources. A typical
example is described in Text Box 1.

15.    A similar public sector, company, and farm outreach approach was implemented
for the protection of Qinchuan Beef Cattle in Meixian (Shaanxi) where the genetic
resources protection was achieved by using the local cattle variety as a breeding line for
high value Wagyu beef production.




                                            30
Text Box 1: Protection of Wei Pigs by the Anhui Antai Agricultural Development Co. Ltd

Issue: Modern pig breeding has led to a near extinction of many indigenous breeds in China. A
government breeding centre maintained a small stock of the rare Wei Pig variety to protect this
genetic resource. This was dependent on a constant public fund flow with a high risk of
sustainability.

Project Solution: A large private pig breeding company recognized an opportunity to develop a
business line based on this indigenous species for special high-end consumers. Production and
marketing risks were considered too high for a private investor and the company requested
support under the project. Project support was provided based on a contract detailing the
minimum stock of pure-bred pigs to be maintained by the company and the number of farmers
and targeting conditions in the out-grower scheme. The company set up an out-grower scheme
involving small and poor farmers focusing on women headed households in mountainous areas
combined with a company operated breeding centre under near nature conditions including a
visitor centre to receive consumers. The special environmental properties (protection of an
indigenous and rare species, near nature production system) and social properties (working with
small and poor farmers) were integrated in the marketing concept for the product and became part
of the product market price.

Outcome: The sub-project provided a triple win situation: For the Government it reduced the
burden of genetic resource protection by transferring responsibility to a professional and technical
competent private entity. For the company market differentiation and the new product line
provided a promising business opportunity. And for the contracted farmers a new source of
income was developed. Most interesting were however the interactions between the Government
and the company and the company and the civil society. The Government sees an opportunity to
transfer responsibilities of genetic resource protection, but also social, equitable welfare
distribution function to a private company. This was done mutually beneficial with the company
making this a product, price and marketing factor. This in turn is only possible because some of
the consumers in this society value these properties and pay higher prices for the pork.




16.     In addition to environmentally related public goods, a large number of sub-
projects implemented by private companies or farmer associations addressed social
goods. In fact most of the sub-projects integrated the achievement of social goods, but
some were designed to address social concerns as their main focus. This was done by
supporting companies to source raw material from poor areas or disadvantaged farmers.
Most promising examples include: mulberry fruit production in Ankang (Shaanxi), rabbit
production in Qiqihaer and Fuyuan (Heilongjiang), mushroom production in Tongjiang
(Heilongjiang), organic vegetable production in Taibai (Shaanxi), and date production in
Hengyang (Shaanxi). In some sub-projects, a specific social issue was addressed. The
Mushroom Production sub-project in Xian supported a company to target farmers, who
were affected by losing their off-farm jobs due to the financial crisis, or in Huaibei
(Anhui), where the project used a company to address impacts from mining and
providing farmers with a technical package and a contractual arrangement to produce
ducks marketed by the company.



                                                31
From a development perspective the project demonstrated in a large number of cases how
the private sector can extend technologies and production opportunities to socially
disadvantaged farmers. These farmers entered into long-term production agreements
with companies, which in turn provided technical assistance and secure markets for their
products.

Public Sector Support Programs (USD12.6 million)

Under this sub-component the project supported a total of 8 sub-projects providing
agricultural services:
                                                                  Total Investment (USD
  Province      Sub-project                                       mill.) Bank (share in %)
   Shaanxi      Integrated Pest Management, Yangling                  4.04          36%
                Food Quality Advisory, Testing & Certification,
   Shaanxi                                                            4.04          36%
                Yangling
    Anhui       Agricultural Technology Extension, Maoji              2.94          48%
    Anhui       IPM for Rice Production, Nanling                      1.97          53%
                Feed Safety, Anhui Academy of Agriculture
    Anhui                                                             1.48          49%
                Sciences
                Information Service System, Hefei Institute of
    Anhui                                                             1.57          70%
                Physical Science CAS
                Genetic Identification of Purity of Seed, Anhui
    Anhui                                                             4.04          36%
                Academy of Agriculture Sciences
 Heilongjiang Dairy Cattle Service, Fuyu                              4.04          36%

17.     The sub-component supported public sector service providers, introduced
advanced technologies, and improved services delivery. At the same time, semi-
commercial fee collection arrangements were introduced to ensure the financial
sustainability of service providers. Most of the services provided are in high demand.
The service providers also use innovative institutional arrangements and feature a high
level of advanced technologies. For example:

18.     The GMO testing laboratory for food and agricultural raw material housed in the
Anhui Academy of Agriculture Sciences has received the status and national acceptance
as a reference laboratory for its DNA based seed identification laboratory. The Academy
has a strong scientific background in the development of gene markers and genetic
fingerprints for seed and food. Several of the Academy‘s developed gene markers are
patent right protected. The Academy plays an important role in providing services to the
seed and food industry both in terms of seed purity and the protection of property rights
of the breeder as well as in the testing for GMO for the food import industry

19.     The Hefei Institute of Physical Science in Anhui started a separate program that
developed an agriculture focused web search engine that scans the web for relevant
articles and filters these both automatically and manually (using experts group) so that


                                            32
the content is of high quality and relevance. The search engine is highly interactive with
the client farmers.

20.      From a development perspective, the project demonstrated how existing public
sector agricultural service providers can be transformed in effective and sustainable
institutions providing tailored service in a modernized agricultural sector.

Targeted Technology Transfer for women farmers in Shaanxi (USD 3.4 million)

The sub component included support for one subproject providing targeted technology
transfer to reach women farmers.
                                                                   Total Investment (USD
  Province     Sub-project                                         mill.) Bank (share in %)
   Shaanxi     Targeted Women's Component, Yangling                   3.35          54%

21.    In most rural areas in China male out-migration (men leaving in search of
employment in cities) has resulted in women being in charge of 80 percent of the
farming—from farm management to physical work and marketing. Often women have
lower educational standards than men and lack opportunities to access agricultural
technical knowledge and extension services. This project supported provision of focused
technology transfer to women especially in poor households where access to information
and capital is limited but where there is a potential to contribute to agricultural
development. The component was led by the Women‘s Federation of the Yangling
Demonstration Zone, a member of the All-China Women Federation. The work was
supported by the Women‘s Science and Technology Service Centre of Shaanxi (an
NGO).

22.     The component trained 100 women in business management, 1,000 in technical
aspects and 10,000 women in villages for practical work as part of enterprise-farmer
arrangements. The Women‘s Federation office of the Yangling Demonstration Zone
worked with the district, county and township federations and applied a transparent
selection process for the women to be trained. For the last two categories (technical and
practical work) poor communities were targeted. Three product lines were supported:
home based handicrafts, egg production (in a demonstration base and by farmers), and
vegetable production in greenhouses supported by a grant to the farmers from the
Federation. Farmer associations were formed to assist these producer groups in technical
support and marketing. Participating women were also taken to other provinces to visit
and learn from similar project designs. In total, 23,000 women were trained.

23.    The enterprises supported proved all to be profitable and to increase farmer
incomes. Especially successful was greenhouse production of vegetables, reaching an
average annual income of RMB17,000. Because of its success the women‘s component
was awarded additional resources.

24.    The development outcomes of the project were clear: increased income of women
farmers; demonstration of a successful model of capacity building at scale of women

                                           33
farmers in rural enterprises. Collective action through producer groups enabled
efficiencies and scale in marketing. Young women leaders gained skills and confidence
in leadership and some also advanced in their careers. Lessons learnt from this
component are very critical for the Bank‘s rural development programs going forward.
ARD is capturing these lessons learnt and featuring this component in the Gender in
Agriculture website and sourcebook.

   3. Project Support (USD 8.7 million)

25.     Under this component the project financed project administration and
management, capacity building and training including a number of national and
international study tours. The project has drawn significant attention from high level
political leaders and decision makers. Projects sites have been frequently visited and
project features and results have been discussed and evaluated by various government
delegations. This involved at least 33 visits of project sites by Central Government
Ministers, Vice-Ministers and provincial Governors or Vice-Governors, including
Premier Wen Jiabao.

26.    The project, its individual sub-projects and individual features have stimulated a
large number of publication and scientific articles in China. A list of related publications
is shown in Table 2.




                                            34
Table 1: Summary Evaluation of Sub-projects by Expert Assessment Team
                                                      (Status: November 30, 2011)
                                Number of subprojects                                               Percentage




                          Heilongjiang




                                                                            Heilongjiang
                                                         Shaanxi




                                                                                                                 Shaanxi
                                                 Hunan




                                                                                                        Hunan
                                         Anhui




                                                                                            Anhui
                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                            Total
Overall Achievement       33             20      33      29        113
Highly Satisfactory       13             8       15      13         49     39.4%           40.0%      45.5%     48.1%      43.4%
Satisfactory              15             8       17      10         50     45.5%           40.0%      51.5%     37.0%      44.2%
Marginally Satisfactory   2              2        1       1          6      6.1%           10.0%       3.0%      3.7%       5.3%
Unsatisfactory            0              2        0       1          3      0.0%           10.0%       0.0%      3.7%       2.7%
not evaluated             3              0        0       2          5      9.1%            0.0%       0.0%      7.4%       4.4%
Innovation Objective
Highly Satisfactory       12             8       13      12        45      36.4%           40.0%      39.4%     44.4%      39.8%
Satisfactory              16             8       19      11        54      48.5%           40.0%      57.6%     40.7%      47.8%
Marginally Satisfactory   2              2        1       1         6       6.1%           10.0%       3.0%      3.7%       5.3%
Unsatisfactory            0              2        0       1         3       0.0%           10.0%       0.0%      3.7%       2.7%
not evaluated             3              0        0       2         5       9.1%            0.0%       0.0%      7.4%       4.4%
Public Goods Objective
Highly Satisfactory       11             8       16      11        46      33.3% 40.0% 48.5% 40.7%                         40.7%
Satisfactory              17             9       15      13        54      51.5% 45.0% 45.5% 48.1%                         47.8%
Marginally Satisfactory   1              3        1       1         6       3.0% 15.0% 3.0% 3.7%                            5.3%
Unsatisfactory            1              0        0       0         1       3.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%                             0.9%
not evaluated             3              0        1       2         6       9.1% 0.0% 3.0% 7.4%                             5.3%
Economic Objective
Highly Satisfactory       10             6       14      12        42      30.3% 30.0% 42.4% 44.4%                         37.2%
Satisfactory              16             11      18      11        56      48.5% 55.0% 54.5% 40.7%                         49.6%
Marginally Satisfactory   4              3        1       1         9      12.1% 15.0% 3.0% 3.7%                            8.0%
Unsatisfactory            0              0        0       0         0       0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%                             0.0%
not evaluated             3              0        0       3         6       9.1% 0.0% 0.0% 11.1%                            5.3%
Implementation Progress
Highly Satisfactory       14             5       12      12        43      42.4% 25.0% 36.4% 44.4%                         38.1%
Satisfactory              12             12      20      11        55      36.4% 60.0% 60.6% 40.7%                         48.7%
Marginally Satisfactory   4              3        1       1         9      12.1% 15.0% 3.0% 3.7%                            8.0%
Unsatisfactory            0              0        0       1         1       0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 3.7%                             0.9%
not evaluated             3              0        0       2         5       9.1% 0.0% 0.0% 7.4%                             4.4%
Source: Expert Assessment Team




                                                         35
36
    Table 2. Selected List of Publications Directly Related to the Project
 Place    Publication                     Name of the Article                                     Date
                                          Thinking of Anhui Agriculture Information
Anhui     Hebei Agricultural Sciences                                                            2010.7
                                          Service Status
          Journal of Agricultural Library Selection on transaction costs and main supply of
Anhui                                                                                            2011.3
          and Information                 the agricultural information services,
          Journal of Agricultural Library Anhui farmers' information technology training
Anhui                                                                                            2011.6
          and Information                 status and mode of exploration
          Microelectronics and            Visualization of the prices clustering of
Anhui                                                                                            2005.7
          Computer                        agricultural products Based on GIS
          Computer Systems &              The elimination of the MD5 algorithm in
Anhui                                                                                            2009.1
          Applications                    agricultural data heavy
          Computer Engineering and        The elimination of ARIMA model in agricultural
Anhui                                                                                            2009.4
          Applications                    prices forecast
          Agriculture Network             Agricultural FAQ retrieval system in shallow
Anhui                                                                                            2009.8
          Information                     semantic
          Agriculture Network
Anhui                                     Agricultural market information search platform        2009.8
          Information
          Computer Systems &              Agricultural prices and supply and demand
Anhui                                                                                            2009.11
          Applications                    monitoring system based on Google Maps
          Computer Systems &              Design and Implementation of geographic
Anhui                                                                                            2009.3
          Applications                    positioning of the agricultural market name
          Computer Systems &              The detection of abnormal price data of
Anhui                                                                                            2010.3
          Applications                    agricultural products
          Pattern Recognition and
Anhui                                     A new complex adaptive search model                    2009.22
          Artificial Intelligence
                                          Straw gas station inject new energy for the new        2007.8.
Anhui     China new energy network
                                          rural construction                                       2
          China Resources                 Straw gasification projects with gas-benefit
Anhui                                                                                            2011.11
          Comprehensive Utilization       analysis and measures recommended
          Modern Agricultural Science World Bank Agricultural Technology Project                 1905.7.
Anhui
          and Technology                  Transportation Management Model                          2
          Northeast Agricultural          "Performance Evaluation of World Bank loans to
Heilong
          University (Social Science      agricultural machinery projects based on                2010
 jiang
          Edition)                        envelopment analysis"
                                          Dynamics of Apple Gold pattern miner
Shaanxi   Journal of Plant Protection                                                            2011.3
                                          population of the Loess Plateau
                                          Apple IPM Ecological Engineering building
Shaanxi   Journal of Zhejiang University                                                         2007.1
                                          ideas and strategies
Shaanxi   Northwest A & F University      Behavior and control of Halyomorpha bug                2007.1
                                                                                                 2010-
Shaanxi China Cattle Science              Qinchuan cattle molecular genetics and breeding
                                                                                                  2011
                                          Release of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium
        Soil Science and Plant            during the decomposition of apple (Malus
Shaanxi                                                                                           2011
        Nutrition                         domestica) leaf litter under different fertilization
                                          regimes in Loess Plateau, China
                                          15Nitrogen study on absorption, distribution and
Shaanxi Journal of Plant Nutrition        utilization of nitrogen applied in early summer in      2011
                                          Red Fuji apple (Malus domestica) in Loess

                                              37
                                        Plateau, China
                                        Influence of planting different kinds of grass
Shaanxi Grassland 2011,19 (1) :20-25    between the lines on photosynthetic                   2011
                                        characteristics of young apple trees
                                        Influence of planting white clover between the
          Grassland 2011,19 (5) :771-
Shaanxi                                 lines on the photosynthetic physiological             2011
          775
                                        characteristics of tree
                                        Absorption and distribution of application of
          Agricultural Sciences in
Shaanxi                                 15N-urea in soil on dwarfing interstock Fuji          2011
          China, 2011,44 (23):
                                        apples in early summer
          Journal of Remote Sensing,    Differentiation characteristics of soil moisture in
Shaanxi                                                                                       2011
          2011                          apple orchard of Shaanxi Loess Plateau
                                        Influence of planting different kinds of grass
Shaanxi Agricultural Research 2011      between the lines on soil characteristics of young    2011
                                        apple trees
                                        The effect of 6-BA and GA4 +7 spraying
          Fruit Science 2011,28 (6)
Shaanxi                                 treatment and other measures on promoting             2011
          :1071-1076
                                        branch of Changfu 2 young apple trees
          Journal of Fruit Science      Study progress on promoting the branch of
Shaanxi                                                                                       2011
          2011,28 (1) :108-113          apple seedlings and young trees
                                        Influence of Provincetown Marin and stub
          Northwest A & F University
Shaanxi                                 handle on the branch characteristics of 2-year-       2011
          2011,39 (6) :185-190
                                        old apple seedlings
        Northwest University of
                                        Investigation and Analysis of Shaanxi Province
Shaanxi Science and Technology,                                                               2011
                                        apple seedling quality
        2011,39 (8) :158-163
        Northwest Agricultural          Influence of branch angle on Fuji bud and
Shaanxi                                                                                       2011
        Sciences 2011,20 (7) :123-126   content of leaf carbon nitrogen
                                        Influence of NaCl stress on growth and
          Northwest Agricultural
Shaanxi                                 photosynthetic characteristics of four kinds of       2011
          Sciences 2011,20 (8)
                                        Apple Rootstock
        Northwest Agricultural          Research on Apple rootstocks Tissue Culture and
Shaanxi                                                                                       2011
        Sciences, 2011,20 (7)           Rapid Propagation
        Northwest A & F University      Domestic and international apple industry
Shaanxi                                                                                       2011
        Press                           development report
        2008 Annual Cooperative
Shaanxi                                 Tongchuan Apple                                       2008
        Economy
                                        Meilingyang milk original milk management
Shaanxi Chinese Food                                                                      2008
                                        mode
                                        Picture News "The first organic vegetable base in
                                        Shaanxi at the same time passing through the
Shaanxi Chinese Food                                                                      2009
                                        Organic Food Certification of European Union,
                                        the United States, Chinas built in Taibai"
                                        Study on the Phyllanthus cultivation techniques 2006.10
Shaanxi Modern Chinese Medicine
                                        and medicinal quality                              .1
          National Potato Conference    Layout characteristics of the potato production
Hunan                                                                                     2009
          Papers                        area in Hunan Province
          Agricultural Systems          Cooperatives are the best choice for farmers'
Hunan                                                                                     2009
          Engineering Research Papers   income
Hunan     Chinese agriculture and       Investigate the role of Hunan farmer specialized  2009

                                            38
        natural resources and        cooperative organizations on the new rural
        agricultural zoning          construction
                                     Development and enlightenment of Hunan
Hunan   World Agriculture                                                                 2009
                                     Hengshan mats professional cooperatives
                                     Key technologies of Borneol camphor cutting
Hunan   World Agriculture                                                                2010.7
                                     propagation
                                     The road of the agricultural development of the
Hunan   World Agriculture                                                                2010.8
                                     company + base + farmers + research units
                                     The experience and the results of the
Hunan   World Agriculture            implementation of World Bank loan of                2010.8
                                     agricultural science and technology project
        Modern Agricultural Science Problems and advice on the land transfer in the
Hunan                                                                                    2010.9
        and Technology               rural comprehensive improvement
                                     Scientific and technological progress and
Hunan   World Agriculture                                                                2011.2
                                     agricultural industrialization
                                     World Bank loans of agricultural science and
                                     technology projects achieve the win-win of the
Hunan   World Agriculture                                                                2010.11
                                     ecological, the economic benefits in purple shale
                                     area
        International Cucurbit       "Snow peak Xiaoyuhong" Small-sized
Hunan                                                                                    2005.9
        Symposium and 7th Australian Watermelon Seedless Breeding
                                     11th Five-Year Outlook and Recommendations
Hunan   "Chinese vegetables"                                                             2006.1
                                     of China's melon industry
                                                                                          2006.4
Hunan   "Chinese vegetables"           Breeding of White melon Xuefeng honey No.2
                                                                                          12-14
        Cucurbifaceae                  "Approaches to minimize the defects of seedless    2006.9
Hunan
        PROCEEDINGS                    watermelon"                                       272-276
                                        The breeding of Xuefeng Xiaoyu No.8 , black       2007.5
Hunan   "Chinese vegetables"
                                       yellow watermelon new varieties                    14-17
                                       " The breeding of Xuefeng new flower leather       2007.6
Hunan   "Chinese vegetables"
                                       seedless watermelon new varieties"                 20-22
                                       " The breeding of Xuefeng Xiaoyu No.9 , small
                                                                                       2007.12
Hunan   "Agriculture Science News      fruit flower leather red new watermelon
                                                                                       139-142
                                       varieties"
                                       "Watermelon physiological diseases prevention   2008.11
Hunan   "China's seed industry
                                       and control                                      46-47
                                       "The breeding of Xuefeng honey No.3, the         2008.3
Hunan   "Chinese vegetables"
                                       muskmelon new varieties                          23-25
                                       " High yield breeding technology of the
                                                                                        2009.6
Hunan   "China's seed industry         tetraploid parent seed in southern hills and
                                                                                        61-62
                                       mountains
                                       preventive measures research on bacterial fruit  2009.2
Hunan   "Chinese vegetables"
                                       rot in Watermelon hybrid seed production         41-42
                                       "China Seedless Watermelon Research and
Hunan   China Agriculture Press                                                          2009
                                       Application"
Hunan   Taiwan Strait Press            Pumpkin varieties and cultivation techniques      2006
Hunan   Golden Shield Press            "How to improve the watermelons effectiveness"    2006
Hunan   China Agriculture Press        "Child-free watermelon research and application   2009
                                        Provide industrial support for the new rural
Hunan   China's financial                                                               2007.1
                                       construction—utilization of foreign capital

                                           39
                                      implementation of industrial management of
                                      Comprehensive agricultural development is
                                      admirable
                                      Implement World Bank loan of science and
         Comprehensive agricultural
Hunan                                 technology projects Support the development           2007.2
         development in China
                                      of agricultural industrialization
                                      Gold plow creates the road of innovation -
                                      "secret" of the implementation of World Bank
         China Financial and Economic loan of agricultural science and technology           2007.4.
Hunan
         News                         project of the comprehensive agricultural               7
                                      development attains the Year Award nomination
                                      of the Bank
         China Financial and Economic                                                       2007.10
Hunan                                 "Five 1 "mode, true" bull "
         News                                                                                 .30
                                                                                            2007.3.
Hunan    Yijie Chinese website            Chaling Camellia low-change increase
                                                                                               2
         Hunan Science and                Development and innovation of the rural
Hunan                                                                                        2010
         Technology Press                 cooperative economic organizations
         Hunan Science and
Hunan                                     Cultivation technology of wild vegetables          2010
         Technology Press
Hunan    Central South University Press   Practical technologies of rapeseed cultivation     2011
                                          Do everything possible to increase people's
Hunan    People's Daily                                                                      2003
                                          income
Hunan    China News Agency                Bamboo King Mo Yun Xiang's story                   2006
                                          Spatial structure analysis of the gold pattern
Shaanxi Northwest A & F University                                                          2009.3
                                          small moth larvae in apple tree crown
                                          Structure distribution of insect community in
Shaanxi Northwest Forest                                                                    2007.11
                                          bagged apple orchard in August
                                          Current Situation Analysis of pest management
Shaanxi Anhui Agricultural Sciences                                                         2007.9
                                          standardization in Luochuan apple orchard
Shaanxi Shaanxi Daily                     Qinchuan cattle industry development
        Shaanxi Agricultural Science      Qinchuan cattle science and technology
Shaanxi
        and Technology News               information
        Radio stations in Shaanxi
Shaanxi                                   Jinhao network an exclusive interview              2010
        Province
Shaanxi Shaanxi Daily                     IPM standardization, information technology
                                          Bank projects to promote Information              2010.8.
Anhui    Anhui Daily
                                          Technology in Agriculture                           23
                                          The role and recommendations of the rural
         Anhui Agricultural Science       cooperative economic organizations in the         2009.7.
Anhui
         Bulletin                         implementation of the World Bank Agricultural       2
                                          Technology Project - Anhui Province
         Anhui Agricultural Science       Empirical analysis and policy recommendations
Anhui                                                                                       2011.17
         Bulletin                         of the Ningguo duck manure treatment projects
                                          Innovation Mechanism and Model research of
Anhui    Anhui Agricultural Sciences      the World Bank Anhui Agricultural Technology      2010.18
                                          Project
         Essay commemorating the          Reference to the bank's project management
Hunan    21st anniversary of the          experience, innovate comprehensive agricultural   2009.7
         province's comprehensive         development project management mechanisms

                                             40
         agricultural development
                                     Study on the evaluation index system of
Hunan    Hunan Agricultural Sciences comprehensive strength in the village in             2009.8
                                     choosing center villages
                                     Reflections on the Government to invest in
Hunan    Hunan Agricultural Sciences                                                      2010.5
                                     agricultural projects assessed
                                      Study on agricultural product development
Hunan    Hunan Agricultural Sciences ideas and selection of species Hunan minor           2011.1
                                     characteristics
                                     Relationship in Hunan's economic and social
Hunan    Hunan Agricultural Sciences                                                      2011.6
                                     development and land use
                                     Study on current situation and problems of high-
Hunan    Hunan Agricultural Sciences                                                      2011.11
                                     quality rice production in Hunan Province
                                     The Lianyuan World Bank Loan cattle project to       2007.5.
Hunan    Hunan Daily
                                     help farmers increase income                           16
                                     To build the province's high quality Camellia        2006.3.
Hunan    Hunan Red Net website
                                     base                                                   21
                                     "Helm well, serving wonderfully (the Chaling
                                                                                          2006.8.
Hunan    Hunan Daily                 people-oriented using science and technology to
                                                                                            30
                                     lead the famer rich)
                                     Breeding standardization of Ningxiang Liushahe       2010.12
Hunan    Hunan Daily
                                     local swine                                            .20
                                     Sharon animal husbandry help Ningxiang pigs          2011.12
Hunan    Hunan Agricultural Journal
                                     take off                                               .12
                                     A single giant of Agricultural fair settled in       2011.11
Hunan    Xiaoxiang Morning
                                     Sharon Animal Husbandry                                .18
                                     Animal Husbandry and Sharon were invited to
                                                                                          2011.11
Hunan    Xiaoxiang Morning           participate in the Chinese famous pigs (Lu
                                                                                            .3
                                     Chuan) Cultural Festival
                                     Sharon Livestock Protect and Develop "National       2009.1.
Hunan    Hunan Economic News
                                     Health Insurance" Ningxiang pig                        22
                                     The Changsha quality pork stand in Hong Kong         2009.1.
Hunan    Hong Kong's Wen Wei Po
                                     market                                                 23
                                     World Bank a loan of $ 700,000 for local pig         2009.2.
Hunan    Xiaoxiang Morning A02
                                     conservation                                           15
                                     The Ningxiang swine popular river north and          2009.1.
Hunan    Ta Kung Pao
                                     south                                                  15
                                     Hunan migrant workers return home to regain          2009.2.
Hunan    The new communication
                                     their dream of "land"                                  20
                                     Happy Xi Li Shu-chu: local flower pork short         2009.4.
Hunan    Xiaoxiang Morning C03
                                     supply                                                 24
         Contemporary Business News Ningxiang local flower pigs successfully vied for     2009.4.
Hunan
         B3                          the Changsha supermarket                               29
Hunan    Hunan Daily                 Farmers' specialized cooperative organizations        2006
                                                                                          2008.12
Anhui    Wuhu Daily                    Straw changing to the gas - the new rural energy
                                                                                            .16
                                   Specialty vegetable varieties and cultivation
Shaanxi Sichuan name family Press                                                         2004.3
                                   techniques
                                   Brand-name products of Shaanxi, the farmers            2010.11
Shaanxi Yangling News, Ankang News
                                   having more than a rich road                             .6

                                           41
                                         Chengbu vegetable cooperatives rich Miao          2009.08
Hunan   Shaoyang Daily
                                         nationality                                         .16
                                                                                           2009.10
Hunan   Shaoyang Daily                   Highlight the theme of the "three rural" flag
                                                                                             .13
                                                                                           2009.12
Hunan   Economic Daily News              Chengbu "vegetable basket" project
                                                                                             .15
                                         Chengbu "private enterprises linking the village" 2010.08
Hunan   Shaoyang Daily
                                         to boost economic development                       .29
                                         Promoting economic and social development,
                                                                                           2010.09
Hunan   Shaoyang Daily                   vigorously promote the people's livelihood and
                                                                                             .15
                                         well-being
                                                                                           2010.10
Hunan   Hunan Daily                      Chengbu alpine vegetables sale well National
                                                                                             .17
        Chengbu office of further in-
        depth study and practice the
                                       Talking about the operation and development of      2010.03
Hunan   scientific concept development
                                       Chengbu alpine-season vegetables project              .31
        received "outstanding research
        reports"
                                       To build the province's high quality Camellia       2006.3.
Hunan   "Zhuzhou daily"
                                       base                                                   1
                                                                                           2007.3.
Hunan   "Zhuzhou daily"                  an increase of 10 times on average In rich
                                                                                             21
                                                                                           2007.3.
Hunan   "Zhuzhou daily"                  Chaling Camellia low-change increase
                                                                                              9
                                         Camellia well winning three million (Chaling
                                                                                           2007.9.
Hunan   "Zhuzhou daily"                  built 964 hectares high standards base in two
                                                                                             4
                                         years )
        Zhuzhou City, the
                                         To build the province's high quality Camellia     2006.4.
Hunan   comprehensive agricultural
                                         base                                                28
        development brief "4
        "Zhuzhou comprehensive           The way of Chaling Camellia project
                                                                                           2006.7.
Hunan   agricultural development brief   communities involved in the procurement
                                                                                             15
        "7                               practice
        Zhuzhou comprehensive
                                         National Agricultural Development check           2006.8.
Hunan   agricultural development brief
                                         Camellia Project in Zhuzhou                         10
        8
        Zhuzhou comprehensive
                                                                                           2006.10
Hunan   agricultural development brief   Let farmers' pocketbook bulge
                                                                                             .16
        10
                                         "Helm well, serving wonderfully (the Chaling
                                                                                           2006.9.
Hunan   Today Chaling                    people-oriented using science and technology to
                                                                                             1
                                         lead the famer rich)
        "Chaling County Office           Chaling Investigation and Consideration of the    2006.11
Hunan
        Bulletin" 12                     Camellia project of World Bank loan                 .3
        "Typical Profile of Chaling      To build the province's high quality Camellia     2007.3.
Hunan
        three cadres meeting             base                                                 1
                                                                                           2010.4.
Hunan   "Chaling new rural" four         Camellia Project attain World Bank' certainly
                                                                                             20
                                                                                           2010.4.
Hunan   "Chaling new rural" four         Camellia: farmers "green bank"
                                                                                             20

                                             42
                                          Focus on holding training classes for Ningxiang   2009.2.
Hunan    Changsha Evening A2
                                          pig farmers                                         15
                                          Farmers to return home and set up factories in    2009.2.
Hunan    SanXiang A3
                                          raising local flower Pig                            17
                                          The Ningxiang swine conservation farms            2009.4.
Hunan    Changsha Evening News
                                          completed in the first half year                     3
                                                                                            2009.4.
Hunan    Changsha Evening A3              Campus reporter become the "swineherd"
                                                                                              22
                                          Department of Commerce leading research
Hunan    Today Ningxiang                                                                     2009
                                          county meat processing enterprises
                                                                                            2009.5.
Hunan    Today Ningxiang                  Li Shu-chu, swine commander
                                                                                              14
                                          Liu Shahe Spotted Pig Plan "appear on the         2011.2.
Hunan    Changsha Evening News
                                          market" to build the pig brands County              16
Hunan    Yiyang Daily                     Farmers' specialized cooperative organizations     2006
                                          Taohuajiang bamboo products production
Hunan    Yiyang Daily                                                                        2010
                                          cooperatives develop water mats
Hunan    Yiyang Daily                     The Majiang seeds market                           2011
                                          Taohuajiang bamboo products production
Hunan    Yiyang Daily                     cooperatives attain award-winning at the           2011
                                          Shanghai World Expo
Books:
         Hunan Science and                Development and innovation of the rural
Hunan                                                                                        2010
         Technology Press                 cooperative economic organizations
         Hunan Science and
Hunan                                     Cultivation technology of wild vegetables          2010
         Technology Press
Hunan    Central South University Press   Practical technologies of rapeseed cultivation     2011




                                             43
                     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


1.      Financial analysis was carried out for a total of 91 sub-projects to capture the net
benefits generated by the project as well as the distribution of benefits among
stakeholders.

2.      Methodology and Assumptions: The cash flow calculations used actual
investment costs and operational costs and revenues as observed in the field at the time of
data collection (end 2011). Based on the field data, cash flows were projected for a
period of 12 years for all sub-projects involving annual crops and livestock and for 18
years for sub-projects involving perennial fruit and tree crops. The analysis used actual
market prices for inputs and outputs up to the current date and constant prices for the
projection period. Labor was valued at prevailing wage rates observed in the project
areas. For all sub-projects involving different stakeholders along the value chain, a
separate cash flow analysis was prepared for each of the stakeholders: farmer, farmer
cooperative, and company or processor.

3.     Results: The overall financial Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of the project is
estimated at 26 percent. The IRRs of individual sub-projects range from 9 to 45 percent
Assuming an opportunity costs of capital of 12 percent the project generated a Net
Present Value (NPV) of about RMB 865 million. About 55 percent of the NPV is
estimated to have been accrued at the farm/household level with an additional 18 percent
going to farmer cooperatives and the remaining 27 percent captured by marketing and
processing companies (see Table 3).

4.      Further analysis was carried out to assess the distribution of net income under
different institutional arrangements. Using subsets of sub-projects involving farm
households and farmer cooperatives show that the benefits were shared in a proportion of
62 percent for individual farmers and 38 percent for cooperatives. In such cases where
individual farmers were linked to companies, the benefit sharing was 57 percent
(farmers) and 43 percent (companies). In those sub-projects that involved farmers,
cooperatives and companies the benefit sharing was 39 percent, 10 percent, and 51
percent, respectively (see Table 3). These results proved that a fair benefit sharing was
achieved under the project despite different economic powers of stakeholders. This was
largely achieved through the design of the project, which protected the interests of
farmers (cooperative support, mandatory combination of investments in production and
processing, etc.).

5.      Some of the environment oriented sub-projects show a relatively low financial
rate of return (duck waste treatment 10 percent, gasification of crop residues 9 percent,
and cattle manure treatment with three sub-projects with IRRs between 14-15 percent).
This is partly explained by the fact that the environmental benefits for the society do not
figure into the financial analysis and that the economic rates of returns of these sub-
projects could be significantly higher. Such sub-projects have been included for gaining
a better understanding of: (a) the technical feasibility of residue treatment methodologies,

                                            44
and (b) their financial viability and attractiveness. This way the project yielded valuable
lessons and showed that the applied technologies are proven and ready to be scaled up,
and the financial, albeit relatively low, is not completely unattractive for private
investment.




                                            45
Table 3. Financial Benefits and Benefit Sharing by Subproject
                                                                                     NPV                 Share of     Share of      Share of
       Province                                               Total   of which
No.                          Subproject Name                                        (OCC       FIRR      NPV by       NPV by        NPV by
        /Code                                              Investment WB loan
                                                                                    12%)                 Farmers    Cooperatives   Companies
                                                                1,000RMB           1,000RMB    percent                 percent
                  Pear Production and Fresh Keeping,
 1    Anhui 01                                                25,010    10,942        16,312   36%        73%          27%
                  Dangshan 砀山梨
 2    Anhui 02    Duck Meat Project, Huaibei 淮北肉鸭             19,520       8,128      12,920   36%        66%                        34%
 3    Anhui 04    Agri-tech Extension, Maoji 毛集农业             12,300       5,673       5,124   21%        100%
                  Rice and Wheat Seed Improvement,
 4    Anhui 05                                                16,870       6,231      19,522   38%        82%                        18%
                  Bengbu 蚌埠水稻
 5    Anhui 06    Broiler Chicken, Guangde 广德肉鸡               32,710    13,175        18,042   24%        60%                        40%
 6    Anhui 07    Alpine Wild Rice Stem, Yuexi 岳西茭白            5,580     2,380         1,459   20%        33%          67%
                  Non-Polluted Sweet Potato and Beans,
 7    Anhui 08                                                21,580       9,352       7,408   18%        49%          51%
                  Chizhou 池州豆类
 8    Anhui 09    Goat Producer Association, Yeji ?集山羊        28,470    12,533         2,263   17%        80%          20%
                  Organic Tea Production, Shexian 歙县有
 9    Anhui 11                                                27,170       9,637      33,105   40%        85%                        15%
                  机茶
                  Standardized Duck Production ChenXin,
 10   Anhui 12                                                18,050       6,582       6,754   23%        72%          28%
                  Hexian 和县肉鸭
                  Wei Pig Conservation by Antai Company,
 11   Anhui 15                                                12,240       6,692      10,447   35%        56%                        44%
                  Guangde 广德圩猪
                  Duck Waste Treatment by Taiyang
 12   Anhui 16                                                15,540       6,700       -191    10%                                   100%
                  Company, Ningguo ?国鸭粪处?
                  Gasification of Crop Residues, Wuhu 芜湖
 13   Anhui 17                                                 8,690       3,501      -1,449    9%                                   100%
                  秸秆气化
 14   Heilong. 01 Dairy&Pig,Haishun 海顺牛?猪                     24,291    11,000        10,752   24%        55%                        45%
 15   Heilong. 01 New Energy ????太阳能                            14,347     7,000         6,578   20%        53%                        47%



                                                                 46
                                                                                     NPV                 Share of     Share of      Share of
       Province                                               Total   of which
No.                           Subproject Name                                       (OCC       FIRR      NPV by       NPV by        NPV by
        /Code                                              Investment WB loan
                                                                                    12%)                 Farmers    Cooperatives   Companies
                                                                1,000RMB           1,000RMB    percent                 percent
16    Heilong. 02   Mushroom, YuFeng 玉丰食用?                    11,000       5,000       7,121   23%        11%                        89%
17    Heilong. 03   Silage, Shuangcheng ?城?贮饲料                10,120       4,600      35,636   30%        50%                        50%
18    Heilong. 04   Breeding Pig, Sanyun 三元?猪                 11,870       5,490       2,211   42%        19%                        81%
19    Heilong. 05   Soybean Improvement,Fujin 富锦大豆            15,840       7,200      11,763   26%        67%          33%
20    Heilong. 06   Soybean Improvement, Hailun 海伦大豆          17,510       7,900       1,184   28%        52%                        48%
21    Heilong. 07   Soybean Improvement, Binxian 宾县大豆         17,160       7,800      13,733   37%        50%                        50%
22    Heilong. 08   Seed Potatoes, Nehe 讷河马铃薯                 16,500       7,500       5,451   26%        53%          47%
                    Red table grape, BinDong 哈尔滨东金园
23 Heilong. 09                                                17,600       8,000      49,410   33%        31%                        69%
                    艺葡?
                    Manure Treatment Yinluo, Daqing 大庆银
24 Heilong. 10                                                26,730    12,000         4,082   15%                                   100%
                    螺粪肥
25    Heilong. 11   Dairy Cattle Services, Fuyu 富裕奶牛           4,077       2,000       2,764   25%        37%                         63%
26    Heilong. 12   Pig Raising, Jixi 鸡西?猪                     8,800       4,200       7,857   23%        56%                         44%
27    Heilong. 13   Rabbit Raising, Qiqihaer ??哈尔?兔           16,720       7,500      10,910   25%        43%                         57%
28    Heilong. 14   Breeding Pigs, Big White 大白猪选育             8,800       4,000       2,097   19%                                   100%
29    Heilong. 15   Paddy Rice FA, Hailin 海林水稻??会               6,280       4,000       1,560   16%                     100%
30    Heilong. 16   Manure Treatment, Suihua 绥化粪肥              4,100       2,100         787   15%                                   100%
31    Heilong. 17   Manure Treatment, Fuyu 富裕粪肥                4,500       2,100       1,072   14%                                   100%
32    Heilong. 18   Mushroom FA, Yichun 伊春木耳??会                 3,567       2,100         428   12%                     100%
                    Agricultural Machinery FA, NingAn ?安
33 Heilong. 21                                                 2,200       1,050       1,639   24%                     100%
                    农??
                    Agricultural Machinery FA, QingAn 庆安
34 Heilong. 22                                                 1,478       1,050       1,164   25%                     100%
                    农??
35 Heilong. 23      Agricultural Machinery FA, Aihui 爱辉        1,453       1,050       1,361   25%                     100%



                                                                 47
                                                                                     NPV                 Share of     Share of      Share of
       Province                                               Total   of which
No.                          Subproject Name                                        (OCC       FIRR      NPV by       NPV by        NPV by
        /Code                                              Investment WB loan
                                                                                    12%)                 Farmers    Cooperatives   Companies
                                                                1,000RMB           1,000RMB    percent                 percent
                  农机??会
36 Heilong. 24    Paddy Rice FA, Jiamusi 万庆水稻                  3,300       1,500       1,354   23%                     100%
                  Agricultural Machinery FA, Bei'an 北安农
37 Heilong. 25                                                 2,215       1,575       2,053   25%                     100%
                  ??
                  Vegetable Seeding, ChangFa 佳木斯直?
38 Heilong. 26                                                 2,437       1,050        962    25%                     100%
                  长?蔬?
                  Edible Fungi FA, Tongjiang ?江市食用
39 Heilong. 27                                                 1,755       1,050       2,308   27%        31%          69%
                  ???会
                  Paddy Rice FA, Huachuan 桦?中星?水
40 Heilong. 28                                                 2,357       1,050       1,494   31%                     100%
                  稻??会
                  Non-polluted Rice, Hua'nan 桦?县绿色
41 Heilong. 29                                                 6,024       1,050       2,654   17%                                   100%
                  稻米
42 Heilong. 30    Rabbit Raising, Fuyuan 抚远养兔                  2,250       1,050       1,380   25%                     100%
43 Heilong. 31    Black Bee Raising, Raohe 饶河黑蜂                1,348       1,050       1,648   37%                     100%
                  Huilong Jiaotou, Changsha (Vegetable)长
44 Hunan 01                                                   17,499       8,111      17,708   29%        94%           6%
                  沙蔬?
                  Melon and Fruit Farm, Shaoyang City 邵
45 Hunan 02                                                   25,150    10,894        31,853   39%        98%                         2%
                  阳瓜果
46    Hunan 04    Beef Cattle, Lianyuan City 涟?肉牛             32,080    12,137        21,398   34%        98%                         2%
47    Hunan 05    Beef Cattle, Jiahua 加?肉牛                    13,337     6,829        21,080   24%        53%                        47%
48    Hunan 07    Zhenghong Pig Production 正虹生猪                  973       555         4,527   20%        80%                        20%
49    Hunan 09    Oil-Tea Project, Chaling County 茶陵油茶        26,142    12,818        36,549   26%        100%
50    Hunan 11    Cyclocarya, Suining 新晃龙脑樟                    9,168     4,447        13,880   42%        15%                        85%
                  Two-Line Super Hybrid Paddy 两系?交
51 Hunan 12                                                   22,185    11,571        13,269   28%        100%
                  稻


                                                                 48
                                                                                     NPV                 Share of     Share of      Share of
       Province                                               Total   of which
No.                          Subproject Name                                        (OCC       FIRR      NPV by       NPV by        NPV by
        /Code                                              Investment WB loan
                                                                                    12%)                 Farmers    Cooperatives   Companies
                                                                1,000RMB           1,000RMB    percent                 percent
52 Hunan 13       Bamboo, Taojiang 桃江竹制?                       3,894       1,450       7,274   23%        50%          50%
                  Staw Mats Cooperative, Hengshan 衡山
53 Hunan 14                                                    2,550       1,228      10,530   43%        73%          27%
                  ?席
                  Nuisance Free Vegetable, Changsha
54 Hunan 16                                                    1,127        547        1,345   34%                     100%
                  county 长沙藠头
55 Hunan 17       Herb Association, Liuyang ?阳市中???             1,242        720        2,302   39%        31%          69%
                  Chengbu Off-season Vegetables 城步蔬
56 Hunan 18                                                    1,314        634        5,321   44%                     100%
                  ?
57 Hunan 19       Anhua Fruit 安化果?                             1,781        819        1,686   25%                     100%
                  Sanjiang Livestock Cooperatives,
58 Hunan 20                                                    1,478        814        2,872   34%                     100%
                  Taoyuan 桃?养殖
                  Gangtang Chinese Medicine , Shuangfeng
59 Hunan 21                                                    1,915        784        2,623   31%                     100%
                  ?峰中???
60 Hunan 22       Xinong Culture, Yanling 炎陵兴农养殖               1,575        818        3,040   34%        47%           53%
61 Hunan 23       Lotus Seed, Xiangtan 湘潭湘莲                    1,260        698          884   20%                     100%
62 Hunan 24       Bamboo Shoot, Suining 绥?玉兰片                  1,552        820        7,793   31%                                   100%
                  Bingtangcheng Orange, Yongxing 永兴县
63 Hunan 25                                                    1,542        774       45,336   34%                     100%
                  冰糖橙
64 Hunan 26       Citrus Association, Shimen 石门柑橘              1,207        614        1,989   36%                     100%
                  Ziyang District Potato, Yiyang 资阳区马
65 Hunan 27                                                    1,699        800         305    12%                     100%
                  铃薯凉薯
66    Hunan 28    Sweet-potato Vermicelli, Cili 慈利红薯           1,500         770       1,023   19%                     100%
67    Hunan 29    Sangzhi Culture 桑?养殖                         1,161         580       5,396   32%        82%           18%
68    Hunan 30    Citrus Association, Mayang 麻阳柑橘              1,179         735       4,385   34%                     100%
69    Hunan 31    Ningxiang Pig ?乡猪                            9,100       5,376       5,447   23%        54%                        46%



                                                                 49
                                                                                      NPV                 Share of     Share of      Share of
       Province                                                Total   of which
No.                           Subproject Name                                        (OCC       FIRR      NPV by       NPV by        NPV by
        /Code                                               Investment WB loan
                                                                                     12%)                 Farmers    Cooperatives   Companies
                                                                 1,000RMB           1,000RMB    percent                 percent
                   Purple Shale, Hengyang County 衡阳紫色
70 Hunan 32                                                     9,449        412       14,790   39%        85%          15%
                   页岩
71 Hunan 33        Berkshire Pig, Loudi 湖?黑猪                    9,059       4,388       5,210   35%        85%                        15%
72 Hunan 34        New Mulberry, Xiangxiang 湘乡桑树                9,568       4,380      11,561   45%        42%                        58%
73 Hunan 35        Cyclocarya, Suining 绥??钱柳                    4,680       1,800         686   11%        56%                        44%
                   Super Hybrid Rice, Zhuzhou 株洲超级?
74 Hunan 36                                                     9,523       4,812       8,357   24%        78%                        22%
                   交早籼稻良??
75 Hunan 37        High Quality Peach, Xu Pu 溆浦优质桃              9,104       4,340      24,003   45%        99%                         1%
76 Hunan 38        Ningxiang Tea ?乡富硒茶                         12,657       6,307      15,538   39%        88%                        12%
                   Forest and Fruit Seedling, Yintai ??苗
77 Shaanxi 01                                                  14,503       6,720      15,462   29%        95%           1%            4%
                   木
                   'Safe' Pork Production, Yangling ?凌安
78 Shaanxi 03                                                  49,382    27,930        18,608   15%         8%                        92%
                   全猪
79 Shaanxi 05      Qinchuan Cattle, Fufeng 扶风秦?牛               13,615       5,600       3,757   15%        81%          19%
                   Targeted Women's Component,Yangling
80 Shaanxi 06                                                  21,696    13,090        10,456   27%        42%          58%
                   ?凌妇女
81    Shaanxi 08   Flower Seed Balls, Yangling ?凌花?            31,601    14,770         6,285   26%         2%          32%           65%
82    Shaanxi 10   Dairy Production, Yangling ?凌奶牛             20,143    10,290        20,135   25%        42%          58%
83    Shaanxi 12   Grape and Wine, Yaozhou 耀州葡?酒               15,670     6,090        23,878   29%        30%           6%           64%
84    Shaanxi 13   Qinchuan Beef Cattle, Meixian 眉县肉牛          21,560     9,800        29,594   21%        54%           1%           45%
                   Mulberry Fruit Production, Yangling ?凌
85 Shaanxi 14                                                  37,538    10,920        10,764   23%        33%          67%
                   桑椹
86 Shaanxi 16      Silksworm, Qianyang ?阳蚕桑                     4,673     2,660         3,385   22%        99%           1%
87 Shaanxi 17      Goat Development, Yaozhou 耀州肉羊              15,470     7,490         3,764   19%        98%           2%
88 Shaanxi 18      Apple Development, Tongchuan 铜?苹            20,947    13,300        16,129   20%        47%          53%


                                                                  50
                                                                                       NPV                  Share of      Share of      Share of
      Province                                               Total   of which
No.                         Subproject Name                                           (OCC       FIRR       NPV by        NPV by        NPV by
       /Code                                              Investment WB loan
                                                                                      12%)                  Farmers     Cooperatives   Companies
                                                                1,000RMB           1,000RMB     percent                      percent
                 果
89 Shaanxi 19    Goat Breeding, Fuping 富平奶山羊                  21,113       9,600       13,239    21%         57%              3%         39%
                 Organic Vegetable Production, Taibai 太
90 Shaanxi 24                                                 20,368     10,490         3,412    15%         66%             34%
                 白蔬?
                 Chinese Traditional Herbs Production,
91 Shaanxi 27                                                 20,473     11,200        10,941    25%         30%              1%         68%
                 Yangling ?凌???
                 Total of 91 Sub-projects                  1,086,757    498,271       864,896    26%         55%             18%         27%




                           Table 4: Benefit Sharing under Different Institutional Arrangements
                                                                                           Benefits Shares
                                                          No. of sub-      (weighted average NPV by sub-project investment
                                                           projects               volumes in the respective category)
                                                           included
                                                                             Farmer           Cooperative          Company
          Farmer plus Farmer Cooperative                      23              62%                38%
          Farmer plus Company                                 29              57%                                      43%
          Farmer plus Famer Cooperative plus Company           6              39%                10%                   51%




                                                                   51
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Sun Chongwu                  Senior Environmental Specialist      EASCS Environment
                             Senior Financial Management                Financial
Yi Dong                                                           EAPFM
                             Specialist                                 Management
Gregory Eliyu Guldin         Consultant, Anthropologist           OPCQC Institutions
                             Consultant, Senior Agriculture
Josef Ernstberger                                                 EASCS    Agriculture
                             Economist
Zongcheng Lin                Social Safeguard Specialist          EASCS    Social Safeguards
Eija Pehu                    Adviser                               ARD     Biotechnology
Jinan Shi                    Senior Procurement Specialist        EAPPR    Procurement
Iain Shuker                  Lead Agriculture Economist           EASRE    Task Team Leader
Juergen Voegele              Sector Director                       ARD     Task Team Leader
Ross Wallace                 Consultant                           EASRE
Anis Wan                     Operations Officer                   EASSD
Ouyang Li                    Program Assistant                    EACCF
Supervision/ICR
                             Senior Financial Management                   Financial
Yi Dong                                                           EAPFM
                             Specialist                                    Management
                             Consultant, Senior Agriculture
Josef Ernstberger                                                  EASCS Agriculture
                             Economist
Xiaowei Guo                  Senior Procurement Specialist         EAPPR   Procurement
Feng Ji                      Environmental Specialist              EASCS   Environment
Zongcheng Lin                Social Safeguard Specialist           EASCS   Social Safeguards
Eija Pehu                    Adviser                                ARD    Biotechnology
Iain Shuker                  Lead Agriculture Economist            EASER   Task Team Leader
Ulrich Schmitt               Senior Natural Resources Economist    EASCS   Task Team Leader
Jinan Shi                    Senior Procurement Specialist         ESPPR   Procurement
Ross C. Wallace              Consultant                            ECSS1   Agriculture
 Meixiang Zhou               Social Development Specialist         EASCS   Social Safeguards
Anis Wan                     Operations Officer                    EASSD
Patria Consuelo M. Morente   Program Assistant                     EASRE




                                              52
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                                                 6.52
  FY01                                                                37.03
  FY02                                                               113.97
  FY03                                                               230.67
  FY04                                                               284.04
  FY05                                                               130.46
                          Total:                                     802.69
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                75.85
  FY07                                                               103.22
  FY08                                                               175.03
 FY09                                                                114.14
 FY10                                                                126.08
 FY11                                                                 93.33
 FY12                                                                 66.71
                          Total:                                     754.36




                                       53
                          Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results



            Summary Results: Farmer cooperative satisfaction survey

Number of Cooperatives/Associations covered:           45

Total number of farmer members interviewed:            875

                             Of which: male: 252            female: 623




 1 What is the extent of technical services provided by the associations?         Average
                                        very low                        very high score
                                           0        1    2     3      4      5      4.202
 2 How important is the association for input supply and/or marketing?
                                        not important           highly important
                                           0        1    2     3      4      5      4.005
 3 Are you getting better prices by selling/buying through the association?
                                        not better                    much better
                                           0        1    2     3      4      5      3.959
 4 How dependent is your farming from the association?
                                        not dependent            very dependent
                                           0        1    2     3      4      5      3.846
 5 How satisfied are you with the work of the association?
                                        not satisfied            highly satisfied
                                           0        1    2     3      4      5      4.199
                                                                   average score 4.042
Cooperatives/Associations scoring 4.0 and higher: a/                              28 (62%)
Cooperatives/Associations scoring lower than 4.0:                                 17 (38%)


a/ Prior to the survey the benchmark for rating a cooperative or association as
providing ‘satisfactory’ services was set at 4.0.




                                               54
     Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

[The following text provides and unedited summary of the Borrower’s assessment of the
project.]

      The World Bank Loan Agricultural Science and Technology Transfer Project
（hereinafter referred to as the project）. The World Bank sent groups to do project
evaluation in 2005, and negotiation in Jan. 2005. In Jun.2005, Chinese government
signed ―Loan Agreement‖ and ―Project Agreement‖ on this project with the World Bank,
and began implementation in Sept.2005. The project began medium-term adjustment in
Jun. 2008, and applied to the World Bank for one-year extension and got the World
Bank‘s approval in 19th July 2010. The project closed the account on 31st Dec. 2011. The
total investment of project evaluation is estimated to 1.8194 billion Yuan, of which, the
World Bank loan is 827 million Yuan ( 100 million USD), local financial matching funds
413.5 million Yuan, enterprises and farmers self-raised funds 578.9 million Yuan.
Through six years project construction, the total implementation of subproject is 115,
overall investment is 1.6980217 billion Yuan.
      This project is organized by the National Agricultural Comprehensive office and
project sites are in Heilongjiang Province, Hunan Province, Anhui Province and Shanxi
Province.

1．     The Achievement of Project Implementation

     The project creates new models in many aspects such as advanced agricultural
technology development, technology transfer and application development as well as 115
project development and introductions. Demonstrating and promoting over 540 quality
new varieties and advanced applicable technologies suitable to leading industries
development, each subproject is over 3 items of the assessment on average. The advanced
applicable technology penetration rate of leading industries is 90%, over 85% of the
assessment. The project area farmers‘ per capita training time in science and technology
is 23 days, over the 20 days of the assessment.

    The contribution rate of adoption and promotion of high-tech to agricultural
economic growth in project areas is up to 40%, over 30% of the assessment. Leading
industry output value reaches 55% of project area‘s total agricultural output value, over
50% of the assessment. The per capita net income of farmers in the project area has
increased 34% on the existing basis after project completion, over 20% of the assessment.

     Through various forms of horizontal and vertical integration and introduction of new
technology and new mechanism as well as public-private partnership arrangement, this
project provides the opportunity for poor farmers to share agricultural product high value-
add.
     The project has accumulatively completed technical demonstration 646600 mu,
technology promotion 5434600 mu, seed base 772200 mu, the area of agricultural

                                            55
transaction hall, exhibition hall and all kinds of warehouse is 103497.94 square meters,
11974.00 sets of equipment, technical training 52565 (whether need to change 772864)
person-months, planting industry production base 561200 mu, forest production base
157000 mu, animal husbandry production base 363900. The project has accumulatively
expanded seed planting area 1364600 mu, new gross agricultural machinery 101600
kilowatts, the new output value 137575400 Yuan, the new added value 491424900 Yuan,
profit and tax 100969300 Yuan, directly beneficiary farmer household 356738, directly
beneficiary agricultural population 1008083.15 which the female beneficiary population
accounts for 60.38%, the total increased of annual net income of directly beneficiary
farmers 691137800 Yuan, farmers‘ average income is 13710 Yuan.

2．Impact of the Project

    The successful implementation of the World Bank Project provides precious and
valuable experiences for agricultural comprehensive development project, creating far-
reaching impact.

      2.1 Transparency management of the Project
      The selection of the World Bank Project must be released in related newspaper and
website, and can only be implemented through initial review of project units and the
World Bank assessment. Comprehensive development of agricultural industrialization
project in Hunan and other provinces have learned from this successful experience.

     2.2 Competition mechanism for selecting sub-project
     The World Bank Project adopts competition mechanism for selecting sub-project to
check project quality from the source so as to promote project selection. The vast
majority of provinces have learned from this experience.

      2.3 Elimination mechanism for implementing the subproject
      The World Bank Project applies elimination system to fraud projects or those
projects that progress are slow to ensure project implementation effect during
implementation.

     2.4 Timely Adjustment of the subprojects
     If project construction content were found to be inappropriate during
implementation progress, the World Bank Project would do timely investigation, research
and analysis as well as provide adjustment countermeasure, so that the construction
content would meet the specified requirements. The country has generally adopted this
experience.

      2.5 Regular Inspection of the subprojects
      The World Bank Project inspects once or twice a year and test results would be sent
to project implementation units in the form of memorandum to facilitate project better
implementation. Now domestic projects have taken project supervision and inspection
system once a year.


                                           56
      2.6 Forum System for project management
      The World Bank would hold forum on project construction content regularly or
irregularly with the people in charge of project construction units and project
management units to ensure that the construction content is reasonable. Some individual
provinces have begun to implement this system.

      2.7 Fund Performance Tracking System
      The World Bank Project adopts strict fund performance tracking system to ensure
effective and safe using of the project fund. Domestic projects are studying the pilot
implementation of the system.

3. Evaluation on the cooperation of construction units and the World Bank

      During the project preparation and implementation of the project, the construction
unit and The World Bank developed a positive, harmonious and effective cooperation.

      3.1 A clear division of labor and a close cooperation
    Powers and responsibilities of The World Bank, the National Agricultural
Comprehensive Development Office, the local project management organization, project
implementation units and farmers were clear, and were orderly implemented in
accordance with the 《Project Agreement》, the 《Loan Agreement》 and the relevant
systems and management methods. In the process of the procurement, implementation,
withdrawal reimbursement and the inspection of the project, parties actively cooperated
with each other. In the face of difficult problems, they consulted each other closely, in
order to effectively ensure the smooth implementation and completion of the project, and
create significant economic, social and ecological benefits.

      3.2 Complement each other, and learn from each other
    The World Bank is a global financial organization, has extensive experience in
agricultural project management and has accumulated the cases of successful projects
around the world. The World Bank provided a range of help and support for China's
implementation of the project in terms of the evaluation, management, supervision and
inspection of the project. China is a large agricultural country in the world. Agricultural
development has experienced an unusual course, but also has accumulated many valuable
lessons and experience with Chinese characteristics. China, as a borrower, is able to
organize effectively, implement efficiently, cooperate actively and provide a wealth of
material and effective help for The World Bank. In the implementation of the project, the
project implementing agencies of The World Bank and China learned from each other,
and achieved good results promoted by mutual progress.

4. The lessons of the project implementation and improvement measures

     The Shaanxi project management institution reform and management personnel
replacement led to the slow pace of the entire progress of the project implementation. In
the future implementation of the project, the communication with the project provinces,
which are selected as candidates, should be strengthened at first, and give priority to the

                                            57
project provinces in which the project management organization can be quickly set up
and orderly work.

     The World Bank replaced the project managers for three times who were responsible
for the project, and it brought a certain degree of difficulty to the implementation of the
project. Hope that during the project implementation, The World Bank avoids the
replacement of the project managers.




                                            58
                     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

   Agriculture Technology Transfer Project Project Appraisal Document - , 2005;
   Aide memoires, ISRs and Midterm Review;
   Various monitoring and evaluation reports prepared by SOCAD and the Expert
    Assessment Team;
   Borrower‘s Completion Report




                                         59
                                           70                                   80                                 90                                    100                                     110                                            120                              130


                                                                                                                                                                          RUSSIAN
                  50                                                                                                                                                 F E D E R AT I O N                                                                                                                 50



                                         K A Z A K H S TA N



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H EILO NG J IA NG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HARBIN
                       UZBEKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                      M O N G O L I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHANGCHUN
                                                                                                  URUMQI
                                     KYRGYZ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JIL IN
                                     REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L                                  SHENYANG
                TA                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                   J   IK                                                                                                                                                                                                 NG
                            IS                                                                                                                                                                                        O                                                                DEM.              40
                  40 TA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M                                               L IAO NING                          Sea of
                                                                                     XINJ IANG                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         NE                                                                         PEOPLE’S          Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                                              HOHHOT
                                                         80                                                                                                                                      Huang                                                                               R E P. O F
                                                                                                                                                                                                         He                                BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                          YINCHUAN                                                     HEB EI
                        This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TAIYUAN                                                                     R E P. O F
                        the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                        GANSU                                                                         SHIJIAZHUANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                                N IN G XI A
                        World Bank. The boundaries,
                        colors, denominations and                                                                                                                                                                SHANXI
                        any other information shown                                                                                                     XINING                                                                                         JINAN
                        on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHANDONG
                        the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ye l l o w
                                                                                                                        QINGHAI
                        Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                   LANZHOU                                                                                                 Sea
                        legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                                                             ZHENGZHOU
                        or any endorsement or
                        acceptance of such                                                                                                                                                          XI'AN
                        boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HENAN                                  JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                              SH AAN XI                                        A NH UI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Huai                     NANJING
                                                                                     XIZANG                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANGHAI
                                                                30                                                                                                                                            Xiangfan                                                                                  30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HU B EI                     HEFEI                      SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                           SIC HUAN
                                                                                                 LHASA                                                                                                              Yichang                             HANGZHOU
                                                               NE                                                                                                           CHENGDU                    n g Ji a n g
                                                                    PA                    90                                                                                                       Cha                 WUHAN                                                                E a s t
                                                                       L                                                                                                                                                                        Huangshi
                                                                                                                                                                              CHONGQING                                                                          ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                   Leshan                                                                                                                 C h i n a
                                                                                                                                                                                   CHONGQING

                                                                           CHINA                                                                                                                               CHANGSHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NANCHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S e a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JIANG XI
                                     AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY
                                                                                                                              MYANMAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                H UNA N
                                                                                                                                                                                 GUIZHO U                                                                  F U JIAN     FUZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                               GUIYANG
                                                                                                                                                                  Qujing
                                         TRANSFER PROJECT                                                                                             KUNMING
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Guilin
                                                                                                                                                        Shilin                                                                                                              TA I WA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GUANGDONG
                                                                                                 Selected Cities                                      YUNNAN                                    GUANGXI
                                                      Project Provinces                                                                                                                                         GUANGZHOU
                                                                                                 Province Capitals
                                                                                                                                 M YA N M A R




                                                                                                 National Capital                                                                                   NANNING                                     HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                20                                                                                                                                                      20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MACAO
                                                                                                 Province Boundaries                                                      VIETNAM
                                                                                                 International Boundaries
FEBRUARY 2005




                                 0    200        400       600 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33846
                                                                                                                                                       LAO PEOPLE’S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HAIKOU
                                                                                                                                                         D E M . R E P.
                                 0   100        200      300        400 Miles                                                  THAILAND                                                                               HAINAN                                                       PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                100                                                            110                                                           120
