Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10630
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2150-PE)
MAY 15, 1992
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 at Appraisal (September, 1981)         -  410 Peruvian Soles (SI.)
SI. 1,000                                   -  US$2.44
S/. 1,)00 as of January 1, 1986             -  I Inti (I/.)
US$1 at Completion (Suspension, May 1987) -  I/. 75
I/. 1,000                                   -  US$13.33
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABB2EVIATIoNS
BAP       Peruvian Agricultural Bank
CDR       Rural Development Centers
CGIAR     Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
GOP       Government of Peru
CIPA      Agricultural and Livestock Research and Extension Centers
IDB       Interamerican Development Bank
INIPA     National Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension
HAG       Ministry of Agriculture
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NCSU      North Carolina State University
REE       Research, Education and Extension System
R&E       Research and Extension
SAP       Special Action Program
SENE      National Extension Service
T&V       Training and Visit
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
ONice of DirectotrGenfera
Opetatmns Evaluati(m
May .5, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Peru
Agricultural Research and Extension Proiect (Loan 2150-PE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Peru - Agricultural Re3earch and Extension Project
(Loan 2150-PE)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrowe:. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment                                               2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PFRU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2150-PE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface ......           ..      . *   ....................  ......................           i
Evaluation Summary .......                     ..      ....... .   ,  ,  ..........    iii
PART  I:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BANK'S PERSPECT:VE
Proj ect Identity ...........  ..........................................              I
Bacgoud...............................                                                 1
Project Objectives and Descriptione..........                                          2
Project Design and Organization .......... ................                    .       4
Project Implementation*...* ...... ... ...            ...................              7
Project Results ............. . .......... ...    15
Project Sustainabilitya...  .i ... .             ..      .........    ...    16
Bank Performance ...........        ... ..........  ......................   16
Borrower Performance ................ . ......   17
Project Rel.otionship ...... o. .....   ... .....                  ............   18
Consulting Services .ns..... .. ... .*. . ...........    18
Project Documentation and Da a.. 18
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..                   .........         19
PART III: SUPPLEMENTARY STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans                  ......................                ....   24
Table 2:  Project Timetable ..............................                                  25
Table 3:  Loan Disbursement. ... . ............               ..     .........       ....   25
Table 4:  Project Implementation  ...........0 .......................   26
Table 5:  Project Cost and Financing   ... .........................    27
A.  Project Costs .......... .  ........         ................. .*.   27
B.  Project Financing .. .,*#*.* .....  ................. ...   27
Table 6:  Project Results .............................. ........... ...   28
A.  Direct Benefits ................................. . .. ..   28
B.  Economic Impact ........................................   28
Ct  Studies ..............................................                     29
Table 7:  Status of Covenants .............. ...................    30
Table 8:  Use of Bank Resources.*.* ............................   . 32
A.  Staff Inputs ............................................ ......... 32
B.  Missions ........................ .......................   32
Map No:    IBRD- 16012R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSbON PROJECT
(LOAN 2150-PE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Research and Extension Project in Peru for which Loan 2150-PE in the amount
of US$40.6 million was approved by the Board of Directors on May 20, 1982.
Disbursements (on all Bank projects in Peru) were suspended by the Bank on
May 5, 1987 for non-payment of arrears. The Closing Date of the loan
(March 31, 1988) was not extended, and an undisbuirsed balance of US$21.3
million was cancelled on December 11, 1989.
Parts I and III were prepared by the Agricultural Division of
Country Department I of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office. They are based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, studies, internal Bank memoranda, correspondence and
interviews, as well as a Completion Report prepared by the Borrower.
Part II represent. the Conclusions of the Borrower's Completion
Report. The complete Spanish original is held in LAC files. The report
makes a commendable effort to critically evaluate the project.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2150-PE'
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Objectives
1.   The performance of the agricultural sector in Peru deterioratea markedly
in the 1970s due to extensive government intervention in the sector after the
military takeover of 1968, a sweeping but ineffective agrarian reform program and
prolonged drought from 1978 to 1980. Research and extension (R&E) activities,
once effective in Peru, were seriously affected.   Extension services were
dismantled as extension workers were shifted to agrarian reform assignments,
while the little research being done was weakened by an exodus of trained
personnel, and was not transmitted effectively to producers.
2.   The Agricultural Research and Extension Project was a vanguard attempt to
rebuild and expand Peru's agricultural research and extension (R&E) within the
context of a new Government's efforts to promote sectoral recovery through
changes in pricing, marketing, credit and land tenure policies and through
reorganization and strengthening of sectoral institutions. The institutional
vehicle for the planned human and physical recapitalization of R&E was the newly-
created National Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension (INIPA) which
combined both services.   The concept envisaged an integrated, demand-driven
coi2modity research and extension program sensitive to agro-ecological needs and
nourished by extensive collaboration between various multilateral and bilateral
agencies, scientific institutes and universities. Project preparation and
appraisal were notably straightforward, benefitting from the commitment and
creativity of the Peruvians, the cooperative efforts of other donor agencies, and
the effective contribution of the FAO/CP. Implementation, however, was troubled.
The project succumbed fundamentally to chronic shortages of resources and
diminished priority under a new government elected in 1985 (Part I, paras.2-7).
3.   Proiect Obiectives. The project was designed to reinforce the institutional
capabilities of INIPA at the national level, and give intensive field assistance
to five northwestern Agricultural and Livestock Research and Extension Centers
(CIPAs). The project included:
(a) strengthening of the national and field research program by providing
(i) internationally recruited research specialists to reinforce
research, introduce farm systems analysis, and upgrade in-service
staff training; (ii) additional land and buildings for selected
research stations; (iii) investment and operating costs of vehicles
and equipment, and salaries of incremental staff; (iv) training of
research staff; (v) consultancies for specific research problems; and
(vi) research projects contracted to selected institutions;



- iv -
(b)  building up o; the extension p-ogram by (i) providing internationally
recruited consultants to introduce the Training and Visit (T&V)
extension system nationwide; (ii) construction of buildings in the 5
CIPAs; (iii) funding of vehicles and equipment, and salaries of
incremental staff in the 5 CIPAs; (iv) funding for in-service training
programs; and (v) providing a credit specialist to study constraints
on credit to smallholders, and train credit officers for the extension
service;
(c)  reinforcement of INIPA's Planning Department through additional staff,
a Mor.itoring and Evaluation Unit, and a Project Management Unit;
(d)  construction of a Documentation and Training center, and provision of
equipment, incremental operating costs, and consultant services;
(e)  provision of a computing and statistical service in INIPA, inc'luding
equipment, incremental sJlaries and operating costs and consultant
services; and
(f)  provision of consultants to study (i) INIPA's role in providing
agricultural machinery and marketing services; (ii) a second-phase
agricultural R&E project; and (iii) a third irrigation rehabilitation
project in coastal valleys (Part I, para.8).
Implementation Experience
4.   Project implementation was perpetually frustrated by the budget impact of
prolonged economic crisis, repeated changes in leadership and management style
in INIPA, and irrational F.rsonnel and remuneration policies which affected
morale and efficiency at every level of the institution.   The vision of a
smoothly coordinated, national system with multi-donor participation and
international scientific linkages placed a considerable managerial and financial
burden on the institution in its formative years, which required a focussed
effort on the part of the Bank to resolve.  Actions by the Bank to improve
project financing (Revolving Fund, Special Account and inclusion of the project
under the Special Action Program) had only limited effect. Moreover, INIPA's
handling of accounts, finance, audits and procurement was unsatisfactory.
5.   The new government's decision in 1986 to decentralize bureaucracy and shift
the emphasis of agro-economic development to the southern Sierra (the Trapecio
Andino), away from the five project CIPAs, reduced the project's priority. While
the GOP expressed strong public support for INIPA as a key element in its new
Sierra strategy, budget allocations remained meager. The Minister of Agrlculture
sought to divest INIPA of its extension role on the grounds that its integrated
structure was incompatible with changed sectoral priorities. Bank arguments for
keeping INIPA intact temporarily staved off such action, but INIPA was ultimately
reorganized in early 1988, after the general suspension of disbursements to Peru
(May, 1987) but prior to the planned project clesing date (March 31, 1988),
representing a clear breach of the project concept and the Loan Agreement (see
Part I, paras. 20-28).



- v -
6.        Agricultural Research.  Development of the research elements of the
project was mixed.   The institutional in.egration of R&E was only partly
successful in producing technology packages relevant to farmers' needs. INIPA's
internal coordination of both services was clearly inadequate. The important
farm systems analysis system was not implemented, while monitoring and evaluation
evolved as best it could without budget, management support or regional
representation. Researchers tendvd to pursue avenues of enquiry largely divorced
from regional and farm realities in what became essentially a supply-led
approach. Training of research personnel fell far short of targets and the small
numbers trained often returned to administrative or private sector jobs d'ue to
irrational personnel and salary policies (Part I., paras.29-31).
7.        Extension Development.  Internationally recruited consultants were to
train INIPA extensic- sts in the T&V system nationwide, but limited budget
restricted this effort to the five pzoject CIPAs.   Results were less than
expected.   Mindful of T&V's inherent limitations, the consultants worked to
introduce an improved form, focussing on constituting groups of farmers with
characteristics likely to promote receptivity.   However, as in other cases
worldwide, extensionists were unable to grasp the methodology for independently
selecting good contact farmers, resulting in limited program coverage and
effectiveness.   Other technical,  physical and financial problems hindered
extension development including (i) insufficient supplies of vehicles and
equipment (purchases of both reached only 50% of target); (ii) meager, poor
quality training programs; (iii) inadequate tailoring of extension packages to
local conditions; (iv) inconsistent availability of operational research
facilities in the project area; (v) insufficient extension agencies and sector
offices in the project area to serve targeted beneficiaries; (vi) unrealistic
salaries and poor morale; and (vii) poor coordination of credit and water
resources with extension.
8.        The T&V system was substantially modified in early 1987 to a group
system, administered by a new extension agency in MAG, using INIPA extension
personnel. The objectives were to sharply expand coverage per extensionist and
to give the program a greater poverty orientation, in accordance with the new
government's Agricultural Plan for 1986/90. Extensionists and CIPAs were only
hastily versed ir the new system, salaries did not improve, and Lnorale and
efficiency remained low.   Physical coverage improved but quality declined
markedly (Part I, paras.32-36).
9.        Credit.  The planned credit study was not carried out.  While credit
per se was not provided under this project, several other Bank projects (Sixth
Agricultural Credit Project, Ln.2302-PE, and the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project, Ln.1771-PE) were providing credit, and the IDB was implementing a credit
line in southern areas through the Banco Agrario del Peru (BAP). In general,
farmers were reluctant to seek credit due to traditional peasant aversion to
debt, and because the BAP required excessive documentation and paperwork,
delivered the funds in an untimely manner, and gave preference to those farmers
it knew or who were already solvent.  About 60% of the credit in the project
CIPAs went to farmers receiving extension from IWIPA, while the crops most
favored with credit were either regional staples (e.g., potatoes) or subject to
price guarantees and subsidies (e.g., rice and corn) (Part I, para.37).



- vi -
Results
IC. The project had the potential for achieving its objectives, but wa6
overwhelmed in large part by economic and political circumstances beyond its
control. Institutional and field actions launched could not develop and mature
and were, in key instances, reversed. Given the fact that the project was not
completed and that its implementation as well as its impact was heavily
overshadowed by non-project fartors, the economic rate of return has not been
recalculated (Pukrt I, para.44).
Sustainabilitv
11.       The context of project implementation--fundamental changes in pc   ,
institutional responsibillty and methodology against a backdrop of economic and
social dislocation--signifies little likelihood that even its limited
achievements  will  be  sustained  in  any  organized  sense.    In  general,
sustainability of an R&E system dependis primarily on long-term domestic financial
stabilit-, combiaed with the demands of a large clientele with a firm sense of
ownership of that system. It cannot be derived solely from international bodies
which, even if they are multiple, effective and generous, remain catalysts only.
Nevertheless, the human resources to develop affective R&E services clearly exist
in Peru. The challenge is to design a longer-term strategy and mechanisms for
their coordination and funding within the framework of the Government's new
agricultural and regional development policy (Part I, para.45).
Conclusions and Lessons Learnt
12. Lessons for the Bank. The principal lessons are the following: (a) even
the best-designed projects will be hard-pressed to withstand macroeconomic
crisis, re-ordered policy priorities, and repeated changes in institutional
leadership as experienced in Peru for most of the 1980s; (b) the argument for
"housing" research and extension together loses force without systematic actions
to forge the institutional, technical and operational linkages designed to
produce and transmit appropriate technology; (c) the project experience validated
the need for capacity and skills gap analysis followed by specific plans of
action to correct deficiencies; even so, the inherent capability of local
professionals and their ability to work efficiently in the bureaucracy, remains
a key determinat,t of project success; (d) the multi donor involvement in INIPA
in its formative years, even though carefully planned and coordinated, exceeded
its managerial aund financial capacity under the given budget circumstances;
nevertheless, the vanguard nature of the collaboration, in a more stable context,
represents a model with high potential; and (e) the manpower allocated to
supervision, along with its frequency and timing, should better reflect the
nature and scope of the project and the Bank's responsibility to actively pursue
timely compliance with basic performance standards, e.g., audits, dated
covenants, progress reporting and procurement (Part I, para.47).
13.  Lessons for the Borrower.   The main lessons for the Borrower are the
following: (a) Peru needs to develop a longer-term R&E strategy which stresses,
virtually above all, human resource development and retention; (b) while the
savinip on bureaucracy and technical advantages of proximity support combining



- vii -
R&E in one (preferably independent) institut.ion, it is the systematic, practical
linkages and feedback between the two services (and the farmer) which ultimately
count, and these can be achieved in different ways given commitment, planning and
funding; (c) agricultural R&E must develop the credibility, recognition and
stable funding base which translates politically into budgets which match
official expressicns of support for agriculture; and (d) agricultural extenslon,
whether T&V or other methodu, must get down to the farm level, and not be just
a transmission system for improved technologies determined by an institution to
be the most important at a particular time (Part I, para.49).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2150-PE)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Prolect Identity
1.        Project Name:  Agricultural  -search and Extension Project
Loan Number:   2150-FE
RVP Unit:      Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country:       Peru
Sector:        Agriculture
Subsector:     Research and Extension
Background
2.        The performance  of the agricultural sector in Peru deteriorated
significantly in the 1970s due to a sweeping land reform program commencing in
1969, and extensive Government regulatory intervention in the sector after the
military takeover of 1968.   Prolonged drought from 1978 to 1980 compounded
sectoral decline. Agriculture's contribution to GDP by 1980 was 11Z, compared
to 15% in 1970. The Government's cheap food strategy kept agricultural prices
low to benefit urban consumers. Per capita food production decreased, with
serious consequences for consumption and foreign trade.   The volume of food
imports, especially wheat, hard corn, rice, vegetable oil and milk products, rose
sharply, while exports of Peru's agricultural staples such as sugar, coffee,
cotton and wool dezreased dramatically.
3.        Of the 11.6 million hectares expropriated by Government under the land
reform program (representing 48% of the total land in agricultural units in
Peru), only 8% was adjudicated to individual families, the remainder being
distributed to various forms of cooperative enterprises of 2,000 ha or more per
unit. Inspite of generous financial support from the Government, the planned
increase in agricultural production failed to materialize due to the lack of
cooperative spirit and businiess acumen among enterprise members.  Enterprises
formed from large estates which were left intact and wher;a the required
technology was  already  understood,  tended  to perform better  than newly-
established enterprises, but m s: eventually succumbed to a steady exodus of
qualified technicians and administrators; and a failure to accord priority to
longer-term planning over the short term benefits of ownership. Further, the
Government's concentration of effort and resources on the reform sector, meant
that the 78% of the rural poptlation not directly affected by the reform (of
which 65% had holdings of 2 ha or less), were neglected.
4.        Aaricultural Research and Extension  Peru had a solid background in
agricultural research and extension (R&E' going back several decades but both
services deteriorated in the 1970s for the following reasons: (a) inadequatc
budget resources and general neglect; (b) the military government integrated what
had been a successful, semi-autonomous R&E institution into the Ministry of



-2-
Agriculture where it languisk-ad within a large, poorlr paid and poorly motivated
bureaucracy; (c) extension staff were shifted to agrarian reform assignments; and
(d) the reduced emphasis or. professional competence coupled with inflation-eroded
salaries  ca.ised  a  majority  of  the  most  experienced  and  highly-trained
agricultural sciencists to leave the country. Institutional changes in the mid-
1970s designed to improve agricultural R&E failed due to the persistence of these
problems.
S.        With the return to constitutional government in 1980, the agricultural
sector was assigned high priority. In 1981, MAG was divested of its technical
support functions, and responoibility for agricultural research, extension, farm
mechanization and rural marketing passed to the new, remi-autonomous National.
Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension (IN, ?A).  To carry out its
responsibilities, INIPA created and staffed 18 Agricultural and Livestock
Research and Extension Centers (CIPAs), each with its own Director reporting to
the head of INIPA. In research, all 17 experimental stations and 27 sub-stations
for crops and livestock were transferred from the old National Agricultural and
Livestock Research Institute (INIA) to INIPA, with their staffs.
6.        At the time of project preparation (1981), the key constraints on R&E
in Peru were described as being: (a) the absence of suitable (and suitably
located) administrative and organizational infrastructure to serve dive-4e agro-
ecological and commodity conditions; (b) inability to recruit and/or retain
adequate numbers of well-trained, experienced staff due to u.;attractive salaries,
poor morale and technical professionalism, and meager funding and programs to use
personnel effectively; (c) an inadequate pool of trained personnel, especially
at M.Sc. and Ph.D. levels, and need for technical and methodological training
programs for extension staff; and (d) completely inadequate support facilities
and services for research (buildin3s, library and scientific information
services, computing, laboratories and equipment).
7.        The project's potential to remove these obstacles was frustrated by
a combination of totally inadequate budget allocations and untimely release of
funds, frequent leadership changes within INIPA (four chiefs in 5.5 years) and
project management's consequent inability to set up planned systems and implement
needed improvements. The vision of a smoothlv coordinated, national system with
multi-donor participation and international scientific linkages placed a
considerable managerial and financial burden on the institution in its formative
years. The project succumbed fundamentally to chronic shortages of resources,
exacerbated after 1985 by diminishing priority resulting from the newly-elected
government's major re-orientation of agricultural policy ar.d institutional
responsibilities which affected INIPA and all donor organizations working with
it. The Bank suspended disbursements on all projects in Peru in May, 1987 due
to Peru's non-payment of arrears on foreign debt, then closed the loan in
November, 1989.
Project Obiectives and Descri2tion
8.        The project's  main objective was  to rebuild  and  expand  Peru's
agricultural R&E services to increase production and producer welfare.   The
project was designed to reinforce the institutional capabilities of INIPA at the



national level, and give intensive field assistance to five CIPAs located in the
northwestern part of the ceuntry. The project included:l1
(a) sLrengthening of the national and field research program by providing
(i) 10 internationally recruited research specialists to reinforce
ongoing research, introduce a farm systems analysis capacity, and
upgrade in-service training of staff; (ii) additional land, office,
laboratory and storage buildings for specific field research stations;
(iii) investment and operating costs of transportation and scientific
and office equipment, and the salaries of incremental staff; (iv)
training of research staff; (v) 19 man-months of consultancies to
assist in specific research problems; and (vi) research projects
contracted to selected national institutions;
(b) building up of the extension program by financing (i) 30 man-years of
internationally recruited consultants to introduce the Training and
Visit system of extension throughout Peru; (ii) construction of 5 CIPA
headquarter buildings, 37 agency buildings and 44 sector buildings in
the 5 CIPAs; (iii) transportation equipment and salaries of
incremnental staff in the 5 CIPAs; (iv) in-service training programs;
and (v) a credit specialist to study the modalities to extend credit
to smallbolders and train credi+ officers within the extension
service;
(c) reinforcement of INIPA's PlanninC Department by the addition of five
professional staff and the establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation unit and a project management unit;
(d)  construction of a eocumentation and training center at La Molina in
which the central library for INIPA's research and extension
activities would be located; provision of equipment, incremental
operating costs including salaries; and a three man-month consultancy
to organize the documentation services;
(e) provision of a computing and statistical service for INIPA, including
equipment, incremental salaries and operating costs, and a 15 man-
month consultancy to establish computer services; and
(f) the provision of consultants to study (i) INIPA's role in providing
agricultural machinery and marketing services (48 man-months); (ii)
a second phase agricultural rescarch and extension project; (iii) a
third irrigation rehabilitation project in coastal valleys.2/
1/   As described in SAR, pera. 4.03.
2/   To follow on from Irrigation Rehabilitation I (Ln.1403-PE) and
Irrigation Rehabilitation II, Chira-Piura (Ln.1771-PE).



- 4-
Proiect Design and Organization
9.        Concevtual Foundation. The project was a first-phase program designed
to accelerate institutional and organizational change, both regionally and
nationally, while relying largely on existing infrastructure (land, buildings)
and avoiding unnecessary new investments. The field operations of INIPA would
reflect the successful experience of the 1960s and be organized around regional
R&E centers (CIPAs). Research would continue its commodity and discipline
orientation.    Foreign  technical  assistance would help  INIPA  introduce  a
nationwide T&V extension system for small and medium-sized producers.3/  The
project also provided INIPA with the capacity to coordinate assistance from
various donors/financiers through its Planning Department.  The farm systems
analysis and the credit study would identify suspected problems of delivery of
production inputs and credit to small-scale farmers.
10.       The integrated organizational structure of INIPA was seen as an
excellent conceptual basis for the proiect. However, INIPA's capacity to fully
absorb and effectively utilize external assistance was constrained by its
simultaneous involvement with a number of donors (e.g., USAID, IDB, CGIAR,
FAO/UNDP and several North American universities) all of which were providing
financial and/or technical assistance to INIPA for agricultural research,
extension and training, without coordination or a defined strategy. Meetings
between Peruvian leaders and these external donors during preparation of the
project in 1981 resulted in a coordinated plan, in many respects a model of its
kind, to re-invigorate an agricultural science-based growth strategy in Peru.
It needs to be noted that this strategy included national!' and regional
universities, private sector efforts and other public institutions and was
referred to collectively as the research, extension and education (REE) system.
11.       The joint Government (GOP)/donor plan (which collectively committed
US$72.2 million in various loans and grants) provided for a geographic division
of labor along with some functional specialization. The IDB was to concentrate
its efforts in the "Trapezio Andino" area of southern Peru, while USAID would
work in the central coastal region plus the selva (forest zones).  The Bank
concentrated on five northern regions (where the new project would be
complementary to several irrigation projects then under implementation, Loans
1403-PE and 1771-PE). In all locations, a set of priority national commodity
programs, including research and extension, was to be implemented. Both degree
and non degree training was included. An agricultural credit effort with IDB
support would be initiated, along with IDB assistance for developing selected
factor and product marketing ccmponents. The Bank supported the idea of a single
donor providing technical assistance at the central level (NCSU with USAID
support).   The Bank would finance a co-leader for each priority national
3/   Extension to large  producers would be through a programmed but less
intensive service, complemented by technical assistance from private
agricultural consultants.
4/ Most importantly, the National Agrarian University (UNA) which
contributed effectively to planning, education, research and to a lesser
extent, extension.



commodity program; co-leaders would in most cases be recruited from the
institutes of the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
(CGIAR). In general, the level of integration of this project with other donors
efforts was unusually high at all stages.
12.       Prolect Scale.  As agreed, project scale was limited to five CIPAs in
the North (Piura, Cajamarca, Chiclayo, Trujillo, and Huaraz) to avoid the Bank's
activities overlapping those of other donors, and to function within existing
INIPA staff constraints. The areas delineated were considered highly promising
and potential models for the remaining 13 CIPAs in Peru to be implemented under
a possible follow-on project.   The five CIPAs represented:  (a) contiguous
administrative divisions which, as a group, covered the three major Peruvian
agro-ecological zones; and (b) 40% of Peru's most important agricultural land,
43% of its irrigated area, and producing some 45% of total agricultural
production.
13.       Innovative Aspects.    The project  design had  several  innovative
features: (a) introduction of the T&V extension methodology, the first large-
scale use of this system in South America; (b) the design of effective mechanisms
for the delivery, promotion and supervision of credit tailored to the needs of
small farmers.5/   (INIPA  saw  its role as one of supporting  agricultural
producers to make the most efficient use of inputs and credit, while avoiding
direct involvement in the administration of either); and (c) introduction of a
farm systems analysis capacity.°'
14.       Project design targeted important problems by:  (a' focussing on
institution-building; (b) being appropriately-scaled to a representative target
area; and (c) providing a massive amount of training at various levels, and with
attention to related components,  e.g. M&E,  credit and farm systems.   The
project's timing was opportune, coinciding with the creation of INIPA and with
a Government committed to reversing sectoral decline. Obviously the concept of
an integrated, demand-driven commodity research and extension program sensitive
to regional agro-ecological needs required appropriately qualified people at the
senior levels of INIPA, and the Bank believed, correctly, that the capacity was
there. Middle and lower management and administrative staff, however, mostly
former staff of NAG, came out of a lethargic and historically unmotivated public
service and had little grasp of the new institutional concept.   This issue
preoccupied Bank preparation staff and was slated for intensive effort during
supervision.-' Finally, while the project did not have an explicit poverty-
alleviation objective, it was implied through the focus on creating a research
5/   About 50% of the total production of crops such as wheat, barley,
potatoes, pulses and maize was derived from farms of less than 5 ha, and the
particularly low use of short term credit by small farmers was paralleled by
their poor use of fertilizer and pesticides.
6/   This capacity was to be developed using the methodology and technology
already generated and successfully applied by the CGIAR institutes.
7/   Training, within the planned division of labor among involved donor
agencies, was a major responsibility of NCSU/USAID.



- 6 -
and extension relationship responsive to the needs of targeted beneficiaries, the
majority of which were smallholders.8/
15.       Proiect Prenaration.  An agricultural sector review in July/August
1980, in which the Bank gave strong support to the new (overnment's se:toral
policies, was followed by formal identification in March, 1981, and subsequent
preparation by INIPA under the skilled guidance and critical input of a
consultant funded jointly by the Bank and the FAO/CP.91   Preparation was
essentially trouble-free and on-schedule, enjoying high priority in the GOP and
INIPA. The very tight budgetary situation in Peru at the time (late 1981),
necessitated a Project Preparation Facility advance of US$1.0 million,
principally to undertake a series of important pre-effectiveness actions to
ensure rapid and smooth start-up of the project (hiring of consultants, farm
systems analysis training and computerized accounting systems). Appraisal was
also straightforward and loan processing proceeded on schedule.
16.       The issue of inadequate terms of service for INIPA R&E professionals
merited greater attention at appraisal and represented an important risk factor
for the project.-°/ INIPA had grown rapidly and was unlikely to qualify for
preferential salary scales ahead of other bureaucracies, even though its
performance depended heavily on being able to attract and build a cadre of
professionals and technicians of high caliber.   The commodity research team
leaders were foreign consultants provided through bodies such as the
International Center for Potato Research (CIP) and the International Center for
Corn and Wheat Improvement (CIMMYT). Their Peruvian team counterparts, however,
were inadequately compensated.  The Bank sought unsuccessfully to have INIPA
salaries based on the norms for an independent institution, and pressed
repeatedly for a rationalization of the salary structure, which, as time passed,
was  taking  a heavy  toll  in morale  and turnover.    Not  only were  INIPA
professionals paid far less than similarly qualified people in other sectoral
agencies, but even within INIPA there were major inconsistencies whereby staff
financed under different development programs received salaries and expenses
several times those of staff working for tbe Bank's project. Some increases were
granted in late 1986, but came too late to affect implementation.
17.       Orfanization  and  ManaFement.    Organizational  arrangements  were
detailed and comprehensive, in keeping with the institutional focus of the
project and included the following: (a) INIPA was project executing agency for
8/ The project targeted small farmers with holdings from 1-20 hectares. In
practice, those with more than 10 hectares in the coastal CIPAs under the
purview of the project qualified as medium-sized producers with normal access
to technology, and credit from the Banco Agrario. Precise numbers are not
available.
9/ The Bank was, at the time, financing local agricultural extension and
production-oriented research within the context of several ongoing projects:
Irrigation Rehabilitation I (1403-PE); Irrigation Rehabilitation II Chira
Piura (or Lower Piura) (1771-PE); and, Puno Rural Development (1812-PE).
10/ Memorandum, July 30, 1981.



- 7 -
all components other than preparation of the third irrigation rehabilitation
project; (b) a Project Management Unit (PMU) staffed by an internationally-
recruited Project Manager, was located in INIPA's Planning Department (alongside
project units managing USAID and IDB activities); (c) the Planning Department
would contain a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, and an Engineering Planning
Service Unit (EPSU); (d) each CIPA Director would control his agreed budget and
administer all INIPA activities; functional responsibility for R&E programming
and activities in each CIPA, however, would rest with INIPA's Executive Directors
of research and extension, respectively.
18.       Certain modifications were made  to these  arrangements  by INIPA
management in the early years, as follows: (a) The Project Management Unit and
the Administrative Unit reported directly to the Chief of INIPA and not the
Planning Department; (b) the Engineering Unit was separated from the Planning
Department after June, 1984, reporting directly to the new Agricultural
Engineering Unit; (c) a Project Accounting sub-unit was created in 1984 within
the Administrative Unit to improve management of loan funds (with little result);
and (d) a sixth CIPA (Tumbes) was created in 1986 and included in the project.
With key project units identified so closely with the Chief of INIPA, repeated
changes in that position undoubtedly complicated implementation.
19.       Effectiveness.  Loan effectiveness was delayed nine months after Board
approval due to: (a) delays in selecting and approving a project manager in
INIPA; (b) inadequate administrative management in INIPA, without clear
delegation of responsibility for important decisions during the frequent absences
of the Chief; (c) lack of formal approval of staffing positions in the
Engineering Service Unit; (d) delays in issuing the tender for vehicles for
extension and research staff. (MAG would not authorize issuance of the tender
because the loan was not effective, even though effectiveness itself depended,
inter alia, on the tender being ready for issuance.)
Proiect Implementation
20.       Early   implementation  coincided  with  pivotal  events  in  the
deteriorating Peruvian economy, aggravated by extreme weather conditions-Ly and
poor management. An IMF stabilization arrangement went into effect in early
1983, entailing major cuts in the public investment budget in order to limit the
fiscal deficit target to 3.8% of GDP. Counterpart funding shortages were
manifested immediately in the curtailment of key project activities (the budget
for the first year of project implementation was one-third of the amount
designated) and remained the dominant (but nrt exclusive) constraint on effective
implementation for the following five years. The GOP's non-payment of arrears on
its foreign debt caused the suspension of disbursements on all Bank projects in
Peru in May, 1987.
21.       The Evolution of INIPA.   INIPA experienced major problems in its
start-up years, including: (a) budgetary constraints; (b) administrative
I1/ The "El Nino" phenomenon caused devastating floods in extensive parts of
northern Peru, including in CIPAs covered by the project.



- 8 -
procedures which curtailed severely its operational efficiency; (c) compulsory
absorption of public sector staff (under Peruvian labor stability laws)
irproperly prepared for agricultural services; and (d) procurement difficulties.
T&V methodology adoption fell behind schedule due to bureaucratic impediments
delaying the purchase and delivery of transport and equipment, and inadequate
absorption, understanding and use of the system by extensionists and agents.
22.       By mid 1983, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) was disbursing
only sufficient funds to pay salary arrears for existing public service staff,
a totally inadequate situation for a service institution like INIPA for which the
importance of maintaining continuous operations in the field for extension and
applied research was paramount.   This counteracted the basic premise of the
project that a faster rate of adoption of improved technology was essential for
improving the performance in the Peruvian agricultural sector. Extreme delays
in budget allocations and release to INIPA resulted in a strike which paralyzed
the institution for six weeks. Such strikes became endemic. The head of INIPA
was replaced, extensive changes were made in senior staff, and efforts were made
to streamline operations.   In an attempt to exercise greater control over
autonomous agencies in the agricultural sector, the new Minister of Agriculture
included INIPA as a sub-item in the ministry budget, with all INIPA expenditures
requiring HAG approval, further delaying already cumbersome decisionmaking.
23.       The sphere of operations of extension agencies and sectors in the
project area was greatly reduced, with commodity programs restricted to rice,
maize, small cereals, pulses and potatoes, although it was still essential to
train extensionists to handle all major farm production problems. The hiring of
the full complement of consultants provided for in the Loan Agreement was
postponed, including the important farm systems coordinator and credit
specialist, restricting the number to the five already selected research co-
leaders.   The civil works program was cut sharply (disbursement under this
category reached only 22% of target). Development of the M&E unit was scaled down
and it never became operational in the form intended, evolving as best it could
without budget, management support or the planned regional representation.
24.       Special Action Program.  The Loan Agreement was amended in September,
1983 to establish a Special Account and a Revolving Fund. The project was also
included under the Special Action Program (with seven other Bank projects, five
of which were in agriculture) under which the Bank's financing share of costs was
increased through June 30, 1985, as follows: (a) for civil works, from 30Z to
90%; and (b) for the weighted average of incremental salaries from 50% to 100%,
and operating costs from 30% to 50%. Use of these facilitie. evolved slowly due
to procedural delays in the approval of the SAP agreewents and general
sluggishness of project implementation. The SAP was extended one additional year
to June 30, 1986.
25.       The Revolving Fund  technically  improved  liquidity,  but was not
operated in the manner intended, perpetuating INIPA's "hand-to-mouth" status.
The GOP had agreed, under the amended Loan Agreement, to maintain the Revolving
Fund at the level of two months' expenditures, but failed to replenish it
regularly causing it to be virtually empty for extended periods. Further, for
each withdrawal from the Fund, INIPA needed MEF authorization, published in the
official gazette, a procedure taking several weeks and delaying the release of



-9 -
funds until the last days of the month. The real extent of the financial crisis
is evident from INIPA's 1984 budget request of US$10 million, of which 90% (under
SAP provisions) would be reimbursed expenditures under the Bank loan. Even so,
the GOP could not come up with its US$1 million net counterpart contribution.
26.       By late 1985 project implementation performance had improved markedly
(as had evolution of the REE system overall) but was still below expectations.
Extension organization was better although T&V was experiencing difficulties,
extension packages still needed greater agro-economic orientation, and initiation
of the continuous technology training courses for extensionists was still awaited
along with assistance to small farmers in organizing for marketing. In research,
commodity-oriented programs were well-established, although the farm systems
analysis capacity remained rudimentary, with adverse effects on the orientation
of technology generation and diffusion.  INIPA's accounting system was under
control at the authorization level, but could not generate reports on execution
at the activity and program level, impeding planning and the ability of
management to demonstrate efficiency and/or evaluate performance. Moreover, the
system was still unable to provide timely substantiation of expenditures eligible
for loan financing, mainly because of accounting deficiencies in the CIPAs,
causing a breakdown in the Special Account procedures. Not only did extremely
slow processing cause major cash flow problems for the project, but Peru, as
Borrower, incurred foreign exchange losses due to inflation.
27.       The  change  of  Government  in July  1985,  created uncertainty  in
management and policy decisions, and a shift in emphasis to the agro-economic
.1evelopment of the southern Sierra (the "Trapezio Andino") for which the GOP
sought a re-orientation of the project, away from the northern CIPAs. The new
government passed a law regionalizing (i.e., decentralizing) the bureaucracy,
creating 12 regions to replace the existing 22 states and departments.   All
national ministerial functions in agriculture were to shift to the new regional
governments including agricultural R&E, a disruptive process marked by political
wrangling over the geographical composition of each region. Regional offices of
sectoral ministries became mini-ministries, duplicating the structure and
functions of their counterparts in Lima.   The new Minister of Agriculture
believed that the integrated structure of INIPA was incompatible with changed
sectoral priorities, but in response to Bank urgings, set up a special
commission  to  study ways  of  reorganizing  the  institution.-LV   Promising
developments in project execution slowed down again, forcing the Bank to conclude
by mid 1986, that the project had low Government priority.   While the GOP
expressed strong public support for INIPA as a key element in its new Sielra
strategy, it failed to provide adequate budget and was in fact, intent upon
separating R&E.
28.       INIPA Restructured.  After prolonged debate,   A despite the Bank's
support for the continuation of the integrated structure, INIPA was divested of
its extension role in early 1988 and reorganized into a new National Institute
for Agricultural  and  Agroindustrial  Research  (INIAA).    This  action was
12/  HAG had lost its extension function, along with other responsibilities,
in 1980 and had a strong vested interest, as well as the renewed influence
after 1985, in the proposed re-structuring of INIPA.



- 10 -
foreshadowed in late 1986, when a new National Extension Service (SENE) was
created in MAG to administer a modified extension program (paras.35-36) and,
ostensibly,  provide greater institutional coverage for extension.   INIPA's
research functions were expanded to include agroindustry, forestry conservation
and management, and the promotion of integrated plant protection systems.
Responsibility for extension passed to Departmental Agricultural Units under HAG
each unit comprising several Rural Development Centers (CDR), whose number in
each Region was dependant on the size and needs of the districts.  The CDRs were
also put in charge of agrarian reform activities, reforestation and nutrition
programs, roles reminiscent of extension's function prior to 1980. The CIPAs
disappeared, with no clear indication of how research and extension would be
coordinated in the future.3'1  The restructuring of INIPA occurred after the
loan had been suspended (May 1987), but prior to its planned closing date (March
31, 1988) and represented a major deviation from the Loan Agreement. The Bank's
response was subdued, possibly reflecting a wait-and-see strategy.   A GOP
proposal to extend the closing date and re-structure the project was still under
consideration in the Bank in the period folJowing suspension. The Bank clearly
continued to support the basic thrust of the project and ultimately closed it
with reluctance.
29.       The Research Program.  Development of the research elements of the
project was mixed. The integration of R&E in INIPA was only partly successful
in producing new technology packages relevant to farmers' needs. There was a
marked lack of coordination between R&E at the center, and more especially in the
CIPAs, not so much due to structural deficiencies but because the chiefs of INIPA
and the directors of the CIPAs gave it little priority. A start was made with
CIPA-based crop and livestock "committees" but their activities lacked
consistency, they had little contact with the universities or farmers, and the
essential feedback was missing. Each CIPA tended to see itself as a special case
and modified the national program in an uncoordinated manner.   Researchers
pursued avenues of enquiry largely divorced from regional and farm realities.
There was a proliferation and overlap of research programs within INIPA as
professionals sought to "own" their efforts. Much of the newer, less traditional
technology delivered by extensionists was not adopted by farmers. This is not to
say that the process of turning research results into communicable packages was
not understood, and in some CIPAs there was an inherent disposition on the part
of researchers to collaborate with extensionists.   Rather, the planned farm
systems analysis capability was not established; the natural tendency of
researchers to adopt a supply-led approach came to the fore; and INIPA's
commodity programs (at least to the end of 1985) tended to be modern, high-yield
and high-input and the resulting extension packages were perceived by many small
farmers as risky.
13/ The former NCSU representative in INIPA believes that persistent
attempts following the break-up of INIPA to keep a combined national extension
and research effort in place may have been partially effective in that some
national research stations (perhaps 5 or 6) and research programs and an
extension/outreach unit are likely to be implemented. See letter, North
Carolina State Universitv, December 12, 1991.



- 11 -
30.       Research  financed  by  the  project  focussed  heavily  on  genetic
improvement (emphasizing native, Andean crops from 1986 onwards), followed by
farm management and pest control (60%, 23% and 17% respectively).   The new
government's focus on native, comparatively low productivity crops as potential
substitutes for imported foodstuffs generated some controversy, being seen by
donors, international experts and Peruvian scientists as constraining sectoral
recovery and future progress by diverting funds from essential research in
biological technologies, and leading to an erosion of the REE system as
structured. It was believed that while INIPA might be faulted for concentrating
its efforts on the selection and testing of new varieties, this remained one of
the most effective ways to build on prior international research and thus realize
a rapid pay-off for local R&E. L'  INIPA essentially needed a more balanced
approcch with greater effort on Andean farming systems and not necessarily a
diminution of its commodity work. Some 2,151 separate experiments were carried
out in the five CIPAs,  compared to the 2,90(o targeted.   Project-financed
experimental plots had a higher rate of success in all 5 CIPAs than those
financed from other sources because, despite budget tightness, funds did flow
through to the conclusion of the trials.
31.       Training of research persornnel was limited and the small numbers
trained often returned to administrative roles or private sector jobs, since
INIPA salary scales for research versus administrative positions were quite
irrational. Academic training planned under the project favored professionals
at the expense of technical and administrative persons, and in any case only
achieved 222 of target. Overall, the emphasis seems to have been on relatively
insubstantial courses and seminars, while national and external scholarships
tended to be awarded as favors, not within a real program of training for
scientific advancement.
32.       Extension Develoiment.   Internationally-recruited consultants were
contracted to train INIPA extension workers in the T&V system nationwide, but
budget problems made the national approach impractical, and the effort was
restricted to the 5 northern CIPAs.   The T&V system has undergone some re-
assessment in recent years, revealing that while sound in principle, it has
methodological flaws which have caused many developing countries to turn to an
adapted group  system.  This  project was  no exception.   Mindful  of T&V's
limitations, the consulting firm worked to adjust the system by making a
conscious effort from the beginning to define and constitute real groups of
surrounding farmers (agricultores irradiados), i.e, farmers with characteristics
that would promote cohesion and receptivity.   However,  the contact farmer
(agricultores de enlace) selection methodology, as in many other cases worldwide,
did not ensure that extensionists could independently identify and evaluate the
best contact farmers as the program expanded, limiting the spread and
effectiveness of the extension message.  Results were much better in areas where
the consultants were directly involved, but in other areas where their role was
14/ M.D. Whittaker, J.C. Ballard, A.L. Brown, A.J. Coutu, J.A. Pino,
R.Rafloski, and J.V. Riestra, Assessment of the Viability and Effectiveness of
Peru's Research, Education and Extension System Servin3 Agriculture, December
2, 1985.



- 12 -
purely advisory (since four consultants could not cover all project CIPAs) it was
apparent that the mechanism had not developed.
33.       Other technical problems hindered the full development of the T&V
system and its achievement of productive goals, as followss (a) extensionists
saw the T&V system as little different from their traditional mode of operation,
except for the required strict, bi-weekly programming of activities, while the
indispensable lists of surrounding farmers became just check-lists for actions
accomplished; (b) the system of routes was too rigid and coverage poor, partly
because lack of v3hicles deterred extension workers from trying to contact
comparatively accessible farmers; (c) the T&V methodology presumed the existence
of a quasi-permanent training and refresher program for extension agents and
subject matter specialists (SMS), but training was an especially weak element of
the project in general, and had tailed off to nothing by 1987 because there was
no budget for travel and per diems, and the substance and quality of training
courses did not merit the effort to attend; (d) the availability of operational
research facilities in the project area was inconsistent and extensionists and
SMS were themselves not capable of developing good packages; (e) inadequate
tailoring of extension packages to local conditions caused farmers to view much
of the technology as irrelevant;-51 (f) the individuality of farmers worked
against the somewhat rigid dictums of T&V; and (g) the numbers of extension
agencies and sector offices (70 and 353 respectively) programmed under the
project as optimal to serve the targeted 33% of small farmers in the 5 CIPAs, was
insufficient and appears not to have been based on a systematic analysis during
preparation.1f/
34.       Once the limited M&E system became operational it revealed that the
T&V program had promoted modest improvements in the transfer and adoption of
technology, greater use of inputs including capital, and caused extensionists to
include new activities designed to increase the effectiveness of their work.
This resulted in some productivity gains, but not those hoped for (para.44 and
Part III, Table 6A). It needs to be borne in mind that extensionists and SMS
were frequently working without vehicles, equipment and budget, and were
increasingly overburdened with administrative responsibilities. Extremely low
salaries for extensionists and SMS forced them to pursue other, competing
activities.   These constraints caused farm visits to diminish in frequency,
especially for farmers in more distant locations, ard the ratio of farmers to
extensionists to be lower than optimal for good results.   Finally, evidence
suggests that thc coordination of extension with credit and perhaps more
importantly with water resources, was very poor and was a major factor in
reducing the productive effectiveness of extension. The water problem was partly
a national policy and institutional deficit, and partly due to the lack of
technical packages on water usage for extension delivery. T&V extension in the
15/ It appears that the major part of the planned farm systems analysis
program was still not in place by 1986. The project record indicates only
that the consultant contract to develop this system was still awaiting action.
16/ This was reported by the Borrower based on a survey in 1987. Bank
missions reported in 1985 that the problem at that time was one of irrational
distribution of agency and sector offices.



- 13 -
five CIPAs reached 30,553 farmers (contact and surrounding) 20% of the original
forecast, while the physical area attended reached 54,996 ha, or 23% of the
220,000 ha targeted.
35.       Group Extension.  The GOP's Agricultural Plan for 1986/90 called for
much greater extension coverage than the T&V system seemed able to achieve,
resulting in the introduction in early 1987 of a substantially modified system
of group extension (Comites de Pequen¶os Productores) containing some elements of
the T&V methodology, and administered by SENE using INIPA extensionists. These
modifications were not discussed in any detail with the Bank prior to their
introduction, although clearly improvement was needed; a mission planned for
early 1987 to review the new program was overtaken by events including
deteriorating security and the Bank's overall suspension of project disbursements
to Peru. The new system comprised Direct Assistance, divided into: (a) technology
transfer to organized groups, complemented by assistance in marketing, credit and
seeds (Asistencia T6cnica Integral); and (b) productive and social assistance to
non-organized groups  (Asistencia T6cnica Parcial).   A program of Indirect
Assistance using mass media techniques would diffuse technical information to
more dispersed communities of poorer farmers. The objective of the changes was
to sharply expand the coverage per extensionist without sac? if icing quality, and
to give the program a greater poverty orientation.
36.       The results of the new approach, to the extent known, suggest that
extensionists were poorly versed in the new system, especially in the dynamics
of group formation and maintenance, and applied a confused mixture of T&V and the
new program. The extreme shortage of vehicles, equipment and teaching materials
left extensionists dependent on their hands, voices and ingenuity.   By loan
closing, over 50% of extension agencies and sector offices had not received the
vehicles and equipment planned under the project and indispensable for their
work. Understanding of the new system at the CIPA level was inadequate due to
inconsistent and poorly-defined operational directives from the center. Salaries
did not improve, and extensionists under the INIPA/SENE system saw other
extensionists working for micro-regional development programs earning much higher
salaries, perpetuating poor morale and high turnover.
37.       Credit.  The credit study was not carried out.-L" While credit per se
was not provided under Ln.2150-PE, the Bank was implementing the Sixth
Agricultural Credit Project (Ln.2302-PE), 1/ credit was a component of Ln.1771-
PE (Piura CIPA) and the IDB was implementing a credit line through the Banco
Agrario del Peru (BAP). Credit surveys carried out by INIPA in 1987 revealed
that some 60% of contact farmers in the 5 CIPAs had applied for credit, of wThich
about 46% received it. In general, farmers were reluctant to seek credit due to
traditional peasant aversion to debt, and because the BAP required extensive
documentation and paperwork, delivered the funds in an untimely manner, and gave
preference to farmers it knew and/or who were already solvent. Among those who
17/ The study was to be undertaken as the first task of the credit
coordinator upon appointment, i.e. within the first year of implementation.
18/ Suspended on March 30, 1987 for failure to meet interest rate covenants.



- 14 -
received credit, only 19% received the full amount applied for and on time.
About 60% of the credit went to farmers receiving extension from INIPA. Farmers
benefitting from credit who were also receiving extension tended to be very small
producers of around 2 hectares, while credit beneficiaries who were not in the
extension program tended to concentrate in the 6 to 15 hectare range. The crops
most favoured with credit were rice, corn and potatoes, the first two subject to
price guarantees and subsidies, and the latter bping a regional staple of small
farmers.
38.       A Final Word.  Despite formidable obstacles and acknowledging changes
after 1985, the post-1980 R&E system, in which the Bank's support was central,
accomplished much in a relatively short period, including: (a) the
conceptualization, emergence and implementation of a prioritized, focused R&E
strategy covering the entire country, with major donor collaboration and a
uniform organization and management structure; (b) INIPA, with other bodies,
produced a substantial quantity of research results and improved technologies,
although adoption by farmers was very slow. However, the unrealistic expectation
of quick results from the system caused widespread impatience on the part of
politicians, farmers, and other government agencies, paving the way for what
occurred after 1985.'91
39.       INIPA and R&E in general lacked political capital and policy influence
causing their relatively small budget to be cut with impunity in bad times. It
should be noted that while INIPA was the largest and best-financed institution
in the R&E system, it was not the dominant institution and was evidently, not
only competing with the universities for funds but in research per se, causing
duplication, proliferation and unexploited opportunities. Donors could perhaps
have done more to encourage a parallel, collaborative structure where the
benefits of collaboration were better understood by the main institutions.
Finally, the institutional integration of extension and research remains
desirable importantly because it limits bureaucracy and (ideally), by putting the
researcher into more direct contact with farmers and extension workers, ensures
greater feedback from the farm to research. Similar objectives in the future
would, in all likelihood, have to be achieved through local organizations, NGOs
and direct efforts, rather than through a centralized apparatus.
40.       Disbursements. Audit and Procurement.   Some 52.52 ot. the loan was
ultimately cancelled, due to poor implementation, cost underruns and the
suspension of the loan in early 1987.  Counterpart funding was minimal until
1986. While the project commenced each year with an approved budget, monthly
funding allocations were not automatic and had to be applied for by the Project.
Despite disbursement percentages being increased sharply from September, 1983 to
June, 1986 under the SAP (paras. 24-25), affected categories like civil works
remained stagnant.
41.       The project demonstrated an unsatisfactory accounting, financial and
audit situation throughout its execution.   The Bank suspended disbursements
19/ Whittaker, et al., Assessment of the Viability and Effectiveness of
Peru's Research. Education and Extension System Serving Agriculture, December
2, 1985.



- 15 -
against SOEs on November 6, 1986 due to unsatisfactory audit reports for 1983,
1984 and 1985, which did not include audits of SOEs, and raised questions about
INIPA's accounting system, internal controls, and management of the Special
Account and Revolving Fund. The Peruvian Auditor General claimed to be unaware
of the requirement for audit of SOEs. Resolution of the overall audit issue
permitted the resumption of Bank disbursements against SOEs on March 5, 1987.
Disbursements were suspended again (ultimately permanently) on May 5, 1987 due
to Peru's non-payment of arrears on foreign debt.
42.       Procurement of vehicles and equipment experienced substantial delays
and poor overnll performance due to impenetrable bureaucratic processes,
counterptrt funding constraints, legal impediments (including "Buy Peruvian."
regulations) and exchange rate problems on items subject to ICB. Deteriorating
finances caused repeated cancellation of purchasing orders and the dropping of
many programmed items. Only one-third of the total items planned were actually
purchased.
43.       Proiect Risk Assessment.   The SAR states, correctly, that factors
external to INIPA represented the most likely source of risk to the project,
including the stability of Government policies favorable to agriculture. It is
surprising, however, that shortages of counterpart funds are not mentioned, since
the Peruvian economy was already deteriorating at the time of preparation and
budget resources were notably tight.   Within INIPA,  the institutional co-
habitation of research and extension comld not, by itself, guarantee successful
implementation, and the Bank, while stressing the importance of such an
arrangement, took additional steps co ensure its success. However, inadequate
terms of service for INIPA R&E professionals represented a significant risk to
successful  implementation but was  not mentioned  in the SAR.2°1   Repeated
turnover in INIPA's leadership, while perhaps not surprising, could not be
preempted through project design. The results of partial implementation and/or
complete reversal of planned actions demonstrate above all, the susceptibility
of even the most carefully calibrated projects to external pressures.
Proiect Results
44.       The project had a high potential for achieving its objectives, but was
overwhelmed in large part by economic and political circumstances beyond its
control. Project objectives did not change during implementation. Institutional
and field actions launched could not develop and mature, and were, in key
instances, reversed. INIPA no longer exists in the integrated form planned for,
and the CIPAs have disappeared. The T&V methodology was largely abandoned. farm
systems analysis was not implemented and the credit study was not carried out.
The limited data available show actual yields in eight key crops which benefitted
from additional investments (credit, agro-chemical inputs) consistently falling
short of appraisal estimates fo  that category and only marginally exceeding
actual yields of the same crops irithout additional investment. However, crops
in both categories, with project, equalled or exceeded yields at appraisal in six
out of the eight examples, and in all eight crops exceeded national averages,
without project in 1987 (see Part III, Table 6A). There is no informAtion on
20/ See memorandum, July 30, 1981.



- 16 -
reductions  in  rural/urban  drift  and  unemployment,   or  the  increased
commercializaticn of small-scale farms which was supposed to bring about those
reductions. The economic rate of return was estimated at appraisal as 20.5Z.
Given that the project was not completed and that its implementation and its
impact on agricultural production were heavily overshadowed by non-project
factors, the ERR has not been recalculated.
Proiect Sustainability
45.       Given the context of its implementation--fundamental changes  in
policy, institutional responsibility and methodology against a backdrop of
economic and social dislocation--the project is unlikely to sustain even its
limited achievements in any organized sense. In general, sustainability of an
R&E system depends primarily on long-term domestic financial stability, combined
with the demands of a large clientele with a firm sense of ownership of the RiE
system. It cannot be derived solely from international bodies which, even if
they are multiple, effective and generous, remain catalysts only.  The human
resources to develop effective R&E services do exist in Peru.   The future
challenge is to design a longer-term strategy and cost-effective mechanisms for
coordinating R&E under the regionalization scheme contemplated by the GOP.
Bank Performance
46.       This project was exceptionally well prepared by the Bank team, and
benefitted from the commitment of the Peruvians, the collaborative efforts of
other involved donors and the guidance and critical input of the FAO/CP.
Preparation and appraisal were notably straightforward. The Bank's belief in the
institutional concept was justified but the sophistication of that concept and
the demands it placed on a nascent institution, may have been underestimated.
Such a project could have benefitted from more frequent and thorough supervision.
There was clearly a problem of supervisory staff continuity and technical input.
With some exceptions, missions ten'1r-d to focus primarily on financial and
managerial problems, which were unde.aiably chronic and often urgent, giving less
intensive attention to INIPA's deficiencies on the technical side including farm
systems analysis, inappropriate research, M&E methodology, training programs and
the important credit study.   The perpetual struggle for adequate budget
undoubtedly sapped institutional energies, morale and effectiveness, to which the
Bank should have responded with more, specialized missions to examine and find
solutions to the kinds of technical issues which, in a sense, would define
INIPA's future role. Finally, the integrated structure of INIPA was the heart
of the project and with hindsight, its threatened dismantling merited a stronger
response. The "commission" merely prolonged the semblance of continuity while
evidence suggests the political decision was already taken to separate R&E and
institutional changes were already underway, especially in MAG, to effect this.
The Bank continued to support the basic thrust of this project long after
suspension of disbursements, and closed it with reluctance.
47.       Lessons Potentially Applicable to Other Bank Proiects.   Several
lessons can be derived from this project, as follows:  (a) few projects, no
matter how well-designed, can be implemented successfully under conditions of
macroeconomic disarray, re-ordered priorities and repeated changes in project
and/or institutional leadership; (b) the argument for "housing" research and



- 17 -
extension together loses force unless the Bank follows up systematically during
supervision to promote (especially at the policy and operational levels) the
importance of the two-way continuum for integrating R&E, which requires improved
interfacing of personnel and effective eAtension cortacts with farmers; (c)
manager.r.l and administrative weaknesses complicated and delayed execution,
validitating current institutional development practice in the Bank, namely,
capacity and skills gap analysis followed by specific plans of action to correct
deficiencies;-/ even so, the inherent capability of local R&E professionals and
their ability to work efficiently in the bureaucracy, remains a key determinant
of project success; (d) the multi-donor involvement with INIPA in its formative
years, even though well-coordinated and supported with liberal technical
assistance, exceeded the institution's managerial and financial capacity under
such abysmal budget circumstances; nevertheless, the vanguard nature of the
collaboration, in a more stable macroeconomic context, represents a model with
high potential; (e) the manpower allocated to supervision, along with its
frequency, consistency and timing, should better reflect the nature and scope of
the project, the context in which it is being implemented, and the Bank's
responsibility to actively pursue timely compliance with basic performance
standards, e.g. audits, dated covenants, progress reporting and procurement.
Borrower Performance
48.       The Borrower performed exceptionally well during project preparation,
displaying commitment and creativity in its approach to project design. However,
changes in institutional leadership and management styles, major deficiencies in
day-to-day administrative performance and totally inadequate and untimely budget
allocations overshadowed all other developments in the project to the extent
where it was difficult to gauge progress in any normal sense.  The Borrower
consistently failed to provide timely, meaningful progress reports. Internal
coordination in INIPA was generally inadequate although a succession of chiefs
tried to streamline procedures and decisionmaking, with only partial success.
49.       Lessons for the Borrower.  Notwithstanding the political and economic
changes which overwhelmed the project and changed the "landscape" for future
projects in agriculture, several lessons for the Borrower are evidentt (a) it is
imperative that R&E be adequately funded and based on a longer-term strategy
which stresses human resource development and retention; (b) while the savings
on bureaucracy and advantages of proximity support the combining of research and
extension in one (preferably independent) institution, it is the practical
linkages and feedback between the two services which ultimately produce
appropriate technology and these can be achieved in several ways, with
commitment, planning and adequate funding; (c) agricultural extension, regardless
of the methodology used, must respond to producers' needs as conveyed by them,
and not be just a pedagogic exercise designed to transmit improved technologies
determined to be important at a particular time; (d) the R&E system must develop
the credibility, recognition and stable funding `as. which translate politically
into budgets which matcn official expressions ot support for agriculture.
21/ A skills gap analysis within INIPA was proposed in December, 1986
following the appointment of a more dynamic, new Chief of INIPA (the fourth in
5.5 years), but events overtook follow-up action.



- 18 -
Proiect Relationship
50.       The relationship between the Bank, the Government and collaborating
donor agencies was positive from the earliest stages. The Bank understood that
many of the issues affecting the project were generic to the entire Peruvian
public sector and the overall macro situation and tried to be constructive in its
dealings with the Borrower even on chronic issues such as counterpart funding,
salaries and financial management. The Bank's steadfast belief in the project's
real potential and sense of the GOP's predicament staved off a sterner stance on
occasions when, viewred ex post, it might have been preferable. Reflecting the
complexities of the situation at the time, the Bank's suspension of project
disbursements to Peru in May, 1987 was undertaken with obvious regret and a
continued willingness to consider ways of re-structuring the project should
disbursements have resumed.
Consulting Services
51.       Consultant support was a cornerstone of the project's institutional
objectives and performance was mixed. The proposed 19 man/months of experts to
work specifically on drawing up a research program was never implemented due
mainly to insurmountable legal and other problems in Peru concerning their
payment in foreign exchange. The important credit and farms systems specialists
were not hired. In contrast, the requirement for 80 man/years of consultants
including internationally-recruited commodity specialists, achieved 1OOZ of
target, apparently due to the frequent intervention of INIPA management and
perhaps because many of these specialists were contracted through the CGIAR
institutes (CIP, CIMMYT and CIAT) and came under different contractual and
payment regulations. The consulting firm responsible for introducing the T&V
extension system was only partly successful in achieving its objectives (paras.
33-35) and experienced major fee payment problems due to legal and contractual
difficulties in Peru.
Proiect Documentation and Data
52.       The Loan Agreement for this projuct was well-drafted but Borrower
compliance with loan covenants was unsatisfactory. The Borrower was asked in
January, 1987 to provide status reports on compliance with specific covenants
including justifications for unmet obligations and proposed remedies, but no
response was received (see Part III, Table 7). Further, the Borrower was asked
to supply completed tables indicating implementation and expenditure of project
components covering the period 1982 to 1986, but evidently did not do so.
Combined with a limited M&E capacity at the time of project suspension, the
project data record is slim. The Borrower's completion report however, contains
much useful data (mostly covering 1987) intended, evidently, to support a case
for re-structuring and completing the project.   The report was useful for
preparation of this PCR, especially on issues concerning the research and
extension programs.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2150-PE)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVEi-'
PRINCIPAL CONCLUSIONS
1. General
a.   The  IEA/BIRF  Project  financed  39.6%  of  total  Government
investments in the 5 Northern CIPAs, facilitating the purchase
of vehicles and equipment for research and extension as well as
the contracting of personnel, construction of buildings, and
purchase of communications equipment.
b.   The project's involvement with INIPA was justified; all funds
allocated were earmarked to strengthen agricultural and livestock
research and promotion activities.    The  separation of the
extension and research components under D.L. (Decree Law) 424
meant that administration of the project had to be separated from
INIAA in order to continue to equitably allocate funds to both
services,   otherwise   INIAA  would   have   had   to   assume
responsibilities for the allocation and amount of a separate
institution's funds (since extension was transferred to the
Ministry of Agriculture).
c.   The project will need to be restructured in order to conform to
present and future needs, while still preserving the central
objective of integrating extension and research.
d.   Project resource management should be kept separate from INIAA
administration and be given the autonomous technical and
administrative status of a special project.
e.   Only one-third of total funds allocated to the project were used;
of the total US$27.9 million, US$19.3 million wvere from World
Bank Loan 2150-PE (external debt), and only US$8.7 million were
contributed by the Peruvian Government.
2. Aaricultural Extension
22/ This part is a translation of the "Principal Conclusions" of the
Borrower's Completion Report.



- 20 -
a.   The Training and Visit (T&V) extension system was used until
December 1986 (4 years). Experts contracted to introduce it were
unable to fully implement one of the system's strategic elements,
that of training extensionists to choose good contact farmers,
concentrating instead on developing and applying T&V procedures.
b.   The T&V system organized and streamlined extension. Extensionists
were required to handle a minimum of 64 farmers every 15 days.
Unfortunately, the poor selection of (contact) farmers did not
permit proper development of the surrounding farmer (agricultor
irradiado) methodology, reducing the system's potential overall
effectiveness from early on.
c.   After 4 years, T&V had improved due to the efforts of the
Peruvian extensionists, as had the results achieved by the T&V
system; and coverage in terms of numbers of farmers and physical
area had expanded.
d.   Strategic and political reasons were decisive in changing T&V to
a group system, without a proper evaluation of the results of
T&V.
e.   The  group  system which  replaced  T&V made  similar  initial
mistakes.   Extensionists were not properly trained for the
change, and again attention focussed unduly un the methodology
rather than on consistent implementttion of the various tools.
f.   The implementation of the group system achieved greater coverage
but the number of visits decreased (once a month instead of
twice); furthermore, unstable groups were formed (the percentage
of permanent farmers participating was no more than 10 of the
group), and as a consequence, technology transfer was more
limited than in T&V.
g.   Extension is basically an educational task in which the farmer
learns to take decisions based on practical demonstration of
improved results; despite project participation, extension in the
northern part of the country has not yet crossed the threshold
of    "asistencialismo"    --the   check-list    of   technical
recommendations.
h.   The determination of the number of agencies and sectors to be
implemented under the project, when added to those already
existing, was not based on a serious and appropriate study; to
date, implementation exceeds project goals, because the latter
were insufficient.
i.   Equipment purchases for agencies and sectors using project funds,
were only for furniture and some equipment; no decis,ion was ever
made on the minimum equipment that sector workers and extension
agents should be given in order to efficiently carry out their
field work.



- 21 -
j.   T&V directly-assisted all contact farmers and many of these were
low-income producers.
k.   Supervision of extensionists by the agents did not permit the
correction of errors during performance of field work; in fact,
supervision  was  reduced  due  to  the  agents'   increased
administrative workload, a situation which mainly affected more
isolated agencies.
1.   Training designed for extension was limited to short courses for
professionals (agents) and bi-weekly talks for technicians
(sector workers); even though the need for training steadily
increased, it was generally neglected until it had almost
disappeared by the final year (1987).
m.   Funds  always  arrived  late at  the CIPAs and even later at
agencies; during the five years of the project this problem did
not diminish, even though it negatively affected the achievement
of goals.
n.   A lack of coordination exists in the field among the extension
system, the Agrarian Bank (Banco Agrario del Peru - BAP) and the
Water Authority, further limiting the achievements of technology
transfer.
0.   BAP credit did not cover production costs and constantly arrived
late, i.e., beyond the stage of the production cycle for which
it was required.
p.   Crops which received credit on a preferential basis were usually
those subject to subsidies and price guarantees, such as rice and
hard yellow corn.
3. Anricultural Research
a.   An efficient relationship between research and extension was not
achieved, since researchers continued to dedicate themselves to
experiments not geared toward solving local and regional
problems; thus a greater gap between research and extension can
be expected now that both belong to different institutions in
terms of organization and budget.
b.   The use of new varieties has benefitted more profitable crops,
given the present sectoral policy (cotton, rice, corn, beans) and
very few with respect to Andean crop varieties (soft corn,
potato, wheat and barley).
c.   Experiments financed under the World Bank project had a higher
percentage of achievement than those financed by other sources;
the Lambayeque and Cajamarca CIPAs carried out the greatest
number of experiments and achieved the best results.



- 22 -
d.   The lack of research policies directed towards problem-solving
for local and regional production, as well as the mechanisms for
researchers to become aware of these needs, make the lack of
coordination between research and investigation even more
serious.
e.   The project called for doctoral and masters scholarships for
research professionals; however, only 22Z of those scholarships
vere granted out of the 192 man/years planned, due to the lack
of a coherent policy regarding training and promotion of the most
competent staff; it was instead used as an instrument of
compensation and payment for political loyalty.
f.   Research staff were intrinsically well-motivated concerning their
work because they understood that they were contributing to the
country's development; however, low salaries caused the more
qualified staff to seek additional employment or to leave the
research field.
g.   Administrative staff of the experimental stations increased
unexpectedly due to the institutional separation of research and
extension under D.L. 424.
4.  Monitoring and Evaluation
a.   Implementation of monitoring and evaluation  (M&E) was only
partially achieved due to lack of understanding of its role in
INIPA. Nevertheless, a suitable methodology was developed for
monitoring tasks, and this formed part of the project
administration.
b.   The various monitoring studies of extension did not reach the
decision-making sections of INIPA.
5. Personnel
a.   All research and extension staff were qualified and highly
motivated in their work. Their dissatisfaction stemmed from low
salaries which caused staff to seek additional jobs, and affected
their dedication to, and the quality of, their work.
b.   In general, most field staff received insufficient training; the
few short courses programmed had declined to almost nothing by
1987.
c.   The project provided training to research profeosionale; short
courses were planned for extensionists.  The lack of a staff
development policy however, did not allow training resources to
be used efficiently.



- 23 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
{LOAN 2150-PE)
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Ekated Bank Loans
Loan Number/                                    Year
Protect Ttle              PufsIoS           ADproved             Status                   Comments
105-PE          Agricultural Credit.    1954-1973   Closed,                     (Five projects totalling
162-PE                                                fully-disbursed          US$55.0 million)
257-PE                                                                          sub-Lent through the
415-PE                                                                          Peruvian Agricultural
933-PE                                                                          Bank (SAP). BAP
performance was
satisfactory.
67-PE           Farm Machinery           1952-1954   Closed,                   (Total US$3.0 million).
98-PE           imports                               fully-disbursed.
114-PE          1rrigat.on works and    1955-1965   Closed,                     (Total USS24.5 million).
418-PE           land settlemz:t in                    fully-disbursed.         Ln. 418-PE experienced
Chira-Piura Basins.                                            problems due to poor
management, inadequate
counterpart funding and
shortage of water, but
achieved goals.
1403-PE Irrigation    Irrigation and               1977      Closed,                  (USS25.0 million).
Rehabilitation         drainage system                       fully-disbursed.          Counterpart funding and
Project.               rehabilitation.                                                management problems.
1771-PE Lower          Irrigation                  1980      Closed. US$2.96          (US$56.0 million).
Piura irrig.tion       rehabilitation in                     million cancelled.        Counterpart funding and
Rehabilitation         coastal valleys.                                               weather problems.
Project.
1812-PE Puno Rural    Pilot rural                  1980      Closed. USS0.54          (US$15.0 million).
Development            development, Sierra                   million cancelled.        Counterpart funding and
Project.               region.                                                        weather problems.
2219-PE Alto Mayo      Prototype integrated        1982      Closed. US$7.34           (US$20.0 million).
Rural Development      rural development in                  million cancelled. 2'   Serious budget problems.
Project.               eastern highlands.
2302-PE Sixth          Long and short-term         1983      Closed. USS31.3           (USS130.0 million).
Agricultural           credit for                            million cancelled.        Suspended for failure to
Credit Project.        irrigation,                                                     meet interest rate
livestock and                                                  requirements.
machinery.
2396-PE                Integrated rural            1984      Closed. US$32.8           (USS40.0 million) Major
Chanchamayo-Satipo    development in the                     million cancelled.        counterpart funding and
Rural Development      Central Selva.                                                  management problems.
Project.
jI See PPAR SECM-48, January 1978 and Im'pact Evaluation Report, October 1981.
21 Disbursements for all ongoing Bank projects in Peru2 were suspended on May 5, 1987 for non-payment of
arrears on foreign debt.



- 24 -
2. Prolect Tietable
Date
Item                            Planned                                 Actual
Identification                                                                 March9 1981
Preparation
Appraisal                                                                      September, 1981
Loan Negotfation                                                               April 5, 1982
Board Approval                                                                 May 20, 1982
Loan Signature                                                                 September 17. 1982
Effect1veness                          December 20. 1982                       February 18, 1983
Project Completion                      June 30, 1987                          Project not completed
Loan Closing                           March 31, 1988                          March 31, 1988
11  Disbursements suspended Ny 5, 1987.  Some activities involving contracted consultants were exempted
until Deceffber 31, 1987.
3. Loan Rfsburag we:!
Cammltive Esti ted and A       Disbursements
CUSMtittion)
FY83         FY84         FY85         FY86         FY87             FY88
Appraisal Est1mte                5.4         19.9        26.6         32.6          37.6            40.6
Actual                           1.5          5.5         9.3         13.8          18.3            19.3
Actual as X of Estimated        27.8        27.6         35.0         42.3          48.7            47.5



- 25 -
4. Prolact Implementation
Appraisal                                          %
Key Indicators                           Estimate                Actual'               CompIeted
A. Civil Works (42)                           25,864                 10,407                     40
Engineering Studies                           105                     52                     50
Agric. Lands Acquired (Ha.)                   355                      -
S. Eauioment (Units)
Scientific                                    378                    242                     64
FieLd Equipment                               317                    564                    180
Office Equipment                            7,033                  2,064                     30
Technical Equipment                            40                     15                     38
Information and Documentation              2,468                     497                     20
Vehicles                                      734                    404                     55
C. Technical Services
Scholarships (ext./MY)                         79                     15                     19
SchoLarships (dom./MY)                        113                     28                     25
Short Courses (MM)                            773                    281                     36
Scientific Events (MM)                         96                     71                     74
Short Visits (ext./MH)                         52                      5                     10
Research Consultancies (MY)                    19
In-Service Training (MY)                       50                     34                     68
Consultants, Experts (MY)                      80                     80                    100
Business Admin. Training (MM)                  30
D. Incremental Operations Personnel (INIPA HO)
ProfessionaLs (MY)                            160                    133                                      83
Technicians (MY)                              440                    264                                      60
Assistants/Laborers (MY)                      250                    187                                      75
Suomlemental Data:
Research Staff Engaged (5 CIPAs)
Professional                                                         126
Technical                                                            147
Extension Staff Enaaaed (5 CIPAs)
Professional                                                         222
Technical                                                            382
I/ As of March 31, 1988 (planned Closing Date)
Source: INIAA Project Completion Report



- 26 -
5. Prolect Costs and Financing
A. Prolect Costs
(US$'000)
Comoonent                                Planned at ApDralsal 11             Actual 2
Local    Forelan     Total          Local    Forelan    Total
Equipment                           3,000       9,100    12,100            832       2,880   3,712
Technical Assistance                3,600      11,900    15,500            549       6,460    7,009
Civil Works                         6,800       2,700    9,500             949         491    1,440
Increm. Operating Costs            23,600       8,600   32,200           5,530       5,132   10,662
PLan REHATIC3'                        800       2,300    3,100             800       2,300    3,100
Studies                               200       1,000     1,200             16         820      836
Front End Fee                                     600       600              -         600      600
Deposit in Special Account            300       1,400     1,400                        610      610
Unallocated                         5,000       3,300     8,300                                   -
TotaL                              43,300      40,600   83,900           8,676      19,293  27,967
1/  Also includes amendments to Loan Agreement e.g. deposit to Special Account.
2t Execution, September 1982 to March, 1988.
3I  Feasibility studies for a third irrigation rehabilitation project in coastat valleys.
Source: INIAA Project Completion Report
B. Prolect Financina
% of                             % of
Source                           Planned          Total            Actual           Total
(USS Milifon)
ISRD                             40.6             48.4             19.3              68.9
Govt. of Peru                    43.3             51.6              8.7              31.1
Total                            83.9             100.0            28.0             100.0
Source: INIAA Project Completfon Report



6. ProJet Results
A. Direct Benefits
Yields of Main CrODs In Coastal Areas of the Five Northem CIPA's
ITons/Hectare)
Appraisal                                   Appraisal              Actual ''             National
Est. without           Actual '               Est. with               wth                 Average
Yield at             Additional          w/o Additional          Additonal             Additional             without
Crop               Appraisal             Investment            Investment            Investment            Investment             Project1'
Rice                         5.3                    6.3                   5.5                   7.5                   5.9                   5.3
Soft Corn                    2.2                    2.5                   1.2                   3.5                   1.2                   1.2
Hard Corn                    2.6                    2.9                   3.5                   4.0                   3.9                   3.5
Beans                        0.9                    1.2                   0.9                   1.8                   0.8                   0.8
Potatoes                     14.0                  15.5                   8.9                   18.0                  9.2                   8.9
Wheat                         1.1                   1.3                   1.0                   2.5                    1.1                  0.9
Cassava                      7.6                   12.0                   9.5                   20.0                  9.6                   9.4
| Cotton                      1.6                   1.9                   1.9                   2.5                   1.9                   1.4
1/ 1987 data.
Source: National Institute for Agricultural Research.
Comments:
The SAR (paras. 7.01-7.02) lists other expected benefits from the project such as reducing rural/urban population drift, and reduced rural uremtloyment
through increased commercialization of small-scale farms. There is no meaningful data to show what occurred.
B. Economic Impact
Economic rate of return (ERR) estimates are frequently no longer carried out for research and extension projects owing to the many difficulties they incur.
Given the history of this project, the ERR has not been re-calculated.



- 28 -
C. Studibs
Purpose as Defhied
Status                                                        Impaot
Item                                                                      at Appswls
Agricultural   Credit         The usage of credit                     no                            na
Study                         by smaltholders
Study                         INIPA's    role    in                   na                            no
p r o v i d I re g
agricultural
machinery    and
marketing services.
Feasibility Study             The  feasibitity  and                   no                            na
modalities    of    a
second- phase
agriculturaL research
and    extension
project.
Feasibility Study             The feasibility of a          F I r s t    s     t a g e    Will    facilitate
third    irrigation           completed;    second          p  t  a  n  n  e  d
rehabilitation                stage    engineering          rehabilitation    of
project  in  coastal          study  was  initiated         Peru's    irrigation
vall6y.                       but not completed.            system.



- 29 -
7.                                 Stetus of Covenants
£ommanh                             Covenant co4pifance was generally unsatisfactory.  Notification of covenant
Irplmntation was especfally poor.  The following is a list of covenants for which the Bank, on January 13,
19T, requested status reports. There Is no record of any response being received. The Borrower's PCR gives
sa$ indicatfon of Implemntatfon and this is noted where relevant.
Ba.tion of L.A.                               Activitv                                   Status
3.01 (c)                                  Contractual    arrangements               Not in compifance.
3.03 (b) (iv)                             between  INIPA  and  BAP  for
hiring a credit coordinator
(12/31/82).
3.02 (b) (Ci)                             Monitorirg and Evaluation Unit:           Partial compliance, with major
5   professionals,   10   field           delays.
surveyors and 4 monitoring
specialists (12/31/82)
3.03 (b) (f)                              10  comnodity  and  scientific            Complied, with major delays.
discipline research experts.
3.03 (b) (fi)                             19 mar.months  of  agricultural           Not in compliance.
consultant    services    to
strengthen INIPA's
institutional capabilities.
3.03 (b) (v)                              Consultants for: project start-           Partial compliance with delays.
up, project management, and the
N&E unit.
3.03 (b) (vi)                             Consultants    for    library             Unkriwn
services.
3.03 (b) (vii)                            3 manyea. s of consultants for 3          Partial compLiance with delays.
studies;    (a)    agricultural
machinery    services;    (b)
marketing    of    agricultural
produce; and (c) preparation of
follow-up project.
3.03 (b) Cix)                             Deputy Chief for INIPA.                   Unknown
3.05 (b) (fff) and 3.05 Cc)               Progress  reports  (on  agreed            Partial    compifance,    with
format) to be forwarded to the            delays.
Bank every six months.
3.06 (a)                                  Contractual arrangements  with            Unknown
suitable       (specialized)
institutions   to   carry   out
specific research activities.
3.06 (b)                                  Contractual   arrangements   to           Unknown.
supply adninistrative training
courses (for documentation and
training center).
3.06 et)                                  Annual program  for local  and            Not in compliance.
overseas scholarships to be
agreed by the Bank.
3.08                                      Master plan  for construction             Unknown
and expansion.



- 30 -
4.02 (a)                                Records  to be maintained  to           Partly coqLied.
refLect results of operations
and    financiaL    conditions
incLuding  specific  accounts
for:  each  CIPA,  M&E  unit,
ProJect    Management    Unit,
Traning   and   Documentation
Center, Engineering PLanning
Service  Unit;  and  to  show
separately    INIPA's
administrative,  research  and
extension operations.
4.02 (f)                                Audit the Special Account and           CoapLied, with major delays.
the Revolving Fund, and submit
reports not later than 6 months
after the nd of each year for
194 and "85.



- 31 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(weeks)
Statg of Project          FT    FT    FT    FT    n1    FT   1n   n1          n      nIT   F
Cyle                  1    62      3    84    55    86    67    I         *9    90    91    Total
To Appraisal              71.5  13.6                                                               64.3
Appraisal through               45.4                                                               45.4
Board Approval
Supervision                       .4  10.3  10.4   6.2  17.6  14.3   .2    .         .2     .     59.6
71.4  58.6  10.3  10.4   6.2  17.6  14.5   .2    -         .2     .    189.3
B.  Kissions
Stage of               month/            No. of   Days in   Specializati.           Perform.       ae  of
Project Cycle             Year             Persons   Field    Represented        Rating/status /  Problams u
Through Appraisal    March, 1981               1        13          Ag
May, 1981                1       na           Ag
September, 1981         2        18          Ag
Appraisal through    April, 1982               2        10          Ag, Ec.
Board Approval
Board Approval        October, 1982            1         2          Ag
through Effectivess  February, 1983            1        na          Ag
Supervision           February, 1983           2         5          Ag, Ec.            2               pH
September, 1983         2        10          Ag. Ec.            2               FM
June, 1984               1       10           Ec                 2              FM
January, 1985            1        5          Ag.                2               FH
September, 1985          1       21          Ag                  2              PFT
March, 1986              2        10          Ag                 2              FPT
December, 1986          2        11           Fin, Ag            3              FVi
January, 1987            1       2            Fin               na              F
I/  Ec - Economist; Ag - Agriculturalist; Fin    Fin. Analyst
2/   1 - Minor Problems; 2 - Moderate Problems; 3 - Major Problems.
3/   F - Financial; M a Managerial; P a Political; I - Institutional; T * Technical



Estension sane boundaries                              *Tv  x s)                                                   exismg re.e.rch sttion     o
CIPA oo-nda-es                                                                                                     N   ...rsech sttio
'9....                             -.  -  Interna~~W. ti-na  hoc-daty                               i~Ecological -on-
'7j-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Coa.t
ul   ll~                                                                                                                                                                         Sierr
P >  U  ~    A                                                                                                  I  U   R   A - R                                              Citi.s
~~o*N iGtuOCiO           C IPA boundaries
* Piura                                                                                                            * Piura             6ttUOr4C*AU8IO^_                          Intetnatioral boundary
< r   r / (, ^ .                                                                    '       040~~~~~~~~~O NTEG-ADE
,          ,  ,I'-7E0 
CHIC  L AYOT O,'/  'f''                                                                                -       .'  CHICLAYO
'--IH I C L A YO
CAJAMARCA                                                                                                    DAlCAat
Chic lana                                                                         CIthiapo   ~~~~~CAJ AMA RCA
CipAtosxdoriss _                          \OCA5Aa8A
T  R U  J I  LLO L 0                                        i  A-                                        e       T  R g 0 J  I L L O
v4!Trjillo                                                -  1raoai,oxa ISo,n9an.       v>                                        / 'tiTrlO.UA.AC.UCO
0   H  U A R A  Z                                  acattosco -      ( C O  r    s                         \         H   U   A    R   A   Z
j*COiitO) ,t i Huoi'  UAe~                                   ra  tG     UA5
*H carae                         '    '  °   '  "oarao hU^NCAyD,   i  e^A   D 1 0                                          U
esoo:rss,c 0                00     : I   : uoLi. IE0                                                                           aunsIA ' .i
MlLES o    20   40   d0   80  too  lio   \vX<   \                                 < /AYACO&- 



