Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3789-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJEC-
April 12, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Offices
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1       =        Peruvian Soles 410 (June 1981)
.4         S/. 1,000  =        US$2.44
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)           =      10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                 2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)    =       1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BAP         Peruvian Agricultural Bank
BCR         Peruvian Central Bank
CGIAR       Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
CIAT        International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIMMYT      International Center for Corn and Wheat Improvement
CIP         International Center for Potato Research
CIPA        Agricultural and Livestock Investigation and Extension
Center
EED         Executive Director of Extension (INIPA)
ENCI        National Enterprise for Marketing of Inputs
EPSU        Engineering Planning Service Unit (INIPA)
IDB         Interamerican Development Bank
INAF        National Institute for the Expansion of Agricultural Development
INIA        National Agricultural and Livestock Research Institute
INIPA       National Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension
IRPA        Institute for Agrarian Reform and Agricultural Extension
IRRI        International Rice Research Institute
ISNAR       International Service for National Agricultural Research
IVITA       Veterinary Institute for Research in the Tropics and Highlands
(San Marcos University, Peru)
MA          Ministry of Agriculture
MEU         Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (INIPA)
NAU         National Agricultural University
ONERN       Natural Resource Evaluation Agency
PCEA        Cooperative Agricultural Research Program
RED         Executive Director of Research (INIPA)
SCIPA       Interamerican Cooperative Service for Food Production
SIPA        Agricultural Research and Extension Service
SMS         Subject Matter Specialist in the Extension Service (INIPA)
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE  AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR ...............................................                                       1
General .......                                                                                            1
The Resource  Base ...................................................                                     2
Government  Policies .................................................                                     3
Previous  World  Bank Participation ...................................                                    3
II.  INSTITUTIONAL  ASPECTS  OF  AGRICULTURAL  PRODUCTION ......................                                    4
Agrarian Reform .....................................................                                      4
Input  Supply  and Marketing ..........................................                                    5
Credit ..............................................................                                      8
Research and Extension ..............................................                                      9
National  Institute  for Agricultural Research  and Extension  (INIPA)..    10
Specífic Problems  of Research  and Extension  in Peru .................    11
International  Support  for Agricultural  Services .....................    12
III. THE PROJECT AREA ..............................                                                                13
IV. THE PROJECT ..............................                                                                     14
A. Introduction ..............................                                                            14
B. Objectives ..............................                                                              14
C. Project Description                          .........................  15
D. Detailed Features ..............................                                                       16
Strengthening  the Research Program .............................    16
Reinforcing  the Extension  Program  ........                      .....................          18
Planning ..........................................                                               22
Technical Assistance  & Studies .................................    22
Documentation  and  Training  Center ..............................    23
Computing and Statistical Services .............................  23
E. Project Costs ..........................................                                              23
F. Project Financing ..........................................                                          25
G. Procurement ..........................................                                                25
H. Disbursement ..........................................                                               27
I. Accounts   and Auditing ..........................................                                    30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Peru in
September/October 1981. The mission comprised Messrs. R. Milford and D. Purcell of
the Bank and M. Walshe and D. Shoesmith (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........................................    31
INIPA ............................................................    31
Planning Department ..............................................    31
CIPA Administration ..............................................    32
Research .........................................................    33
Extension ........................................................    33
Training .........................................................    35
Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................    35
Project Reporting ................................................    37
VI. YIELDS AND PRODUCTION IMPACT .......................................    38
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................................    41
Project Justification ............................................    41
Economic Rate of Return Estimate .................................    41
Sensitivity Analysis .............................................    42
Environmental Impact .............................................    42
Project Risk .....................................................    42
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................    43
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Relevance of Research and Extension Programs to Peruvian Farming
Systems
Annex 2. Guidelines for Terms of Reference for Project Manager and
Internationally Recruired Research Co-leaders
Annex 3. Terms of Reference and Qualifications for the Adviser to the
Head of INIPA
Annex 4. Guidelines for Agricultural Credit Study
Annex 5. Preparation of Irrigation Rehabilitation III Project
Annex 6. Monitoring and Evaluation of Research and Extension Programs
Annex 7. Outline of Responsibilities of the Engineering Planning Service
Unit (EPSU)
Annex 8. Outline of Duties of the Executive Architects
Annex 9. Supporting Tables and Charts
T. 1   Summary of Support for Research - Five CIPAs
T. 2   Summary of Support for Extension - Five CIPAs
T. 3   CIPA Headquarters
T. 4   Central Planning Unit
T. 5   Central Planning Office - Specialist and Consultant Services
T. 6   Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
T. 7   Documentation and Training Center
T. 8   Documentation and Training Services in Five CIPAs
T. 9   Computing and Statistical Service
T. 10 Total Project Costs and Phasing
T. 11 Disbursement Schedule
T. 12  Summary of Area and Extension Organization Statistics in the
Five Project CIPAs
T. 13 Economic Rate of Return Estimates



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Chart  1  INIPA Civil Works Implementation Management Schedule
Chart  2  INIPA Technical Assistance Schedule
Chart  3  INIPA Organization Chart
Chart  4  INIPA Extension Service Chart for CIPA Piura
Annex 10. Supporting Documents Avallable in Project File
MAP
IBRD - 16012






PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
1.01      In the decade of the 1970s, there was significant decline in the
performance of the agricultural sector in Peru.  At the same time, the
total population and the urban population increased at 2.8% and 4.1% p.a.,
respectively. This resulted in a declining ratio of food produced per
capita of population, which was exacerbated by the extensive migration to
urban areas where the population, not having resources for subsistence food
production, had to depend on food entering the commercial marketing
system. In constant terms, the value of total agricultural production
increased at only 0.7% p.a. during the decade, compared to an increase of
2.5% p.a. for the period 1950 to 1970. However, the value of crop produc-
tion actually declined in constant terms at an average annual rate of -0.6%
in the 1970s, while livestock production increased at 3.3% p.a., largely
due to expansion of the poultry industry at an average annual rate of
10.6%.
1.02      As a result of poor agricultural performance, the volume of food
imports increased by over 20% between the early 1970s and 1980. Wheat,
hard corn and rice have been the major grain imports, in addition to sub-
stantial quantities of vegetable oíl and mílk products. Of particular note
has been the decline of the once highly efficient sugar industry, which
earned 21% of Peru½s total value of merchandise exports in 1975; in 1980
Peru had to import sugar. The major agricultural exports of coffee, cotton
and wool together accounted for only 6% of all merchandise exports in 1980
compared to 9% in 1975 and 10% in 1970.
1.03      Today, agriculture contributes 11% to GDP, compared to 15% in
1970. The sector employed about 48% of the labor force in 1970 which has
declined slightly to 41% at present. Although the percentage of rural
unemployment (0.3%) and rural underemployment (about 65%) did not change
significantly during the 1970s, the total national unemployment rate
increased from 4.7 to 7.1%, and underemployment from 45 to 51%. This
reflects urban migration from the depressed rural areas, especially the
Sierra, and the inadequate employment opportunities in urban areas.
1.04      The generally poor performance in the agricultural sector can be
largely attributed to the implications of a sweeping land reform and of
excessive Government regulatory intervention in the sector following the
military takeover in 1968; this was compounded by the effects of a pro-
longed drought period from 1978 to 1980.
1.05      With the return to constitutional government on July 28, 1980,
the new Government placed high priority on development of the agricultural
sector. A major effort will be needed to redress existing problems limit-
ing agricultural production and to decrease the cost of food imports and
increase export earnings. Increased production of food and industrial
crops would not only provide for the requirements of the rapidly growing



population (especially in the cities), but would also increase employment
opportunities in agriculture and its associated servicing and processing
industries.
The Resource Base
1.06      In comparison with other Latin American countries, Peru has a
relatively limited natural resource base. While the total area of the
country is 128.5 million ha, only about 3.7 million ha, or 2.9%, are
cultivable and another 22 million ha (17%) are natural pastureland. Most
of the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already cultivated, but
additional land could be developed either on the lower slopes of the Andes
(Ceja de Selva), which would be expensive because of the lack of access and
basic infrastructure and services, or in the coastal zone, also requiring
substantial investments (in irrigation) to improve presently unproductive
land. The ratio of cropland hectares actually harvested to rural popula-
tion is 0.34, but figures vary according to the three main ecological zones
into which Peru can be divided--the Coastal Zone, the Andean Highland Zone,
and the Forest Zone.
1.07      The Coastal Zone.  The Coastal Zone in the west of the country
consists mainly of flat desert plains, sand dunes and the dry, heavily
eroded Andean foothills.  It is a narrow 3,000-km-long belt, covering about
13 million ha (10.2% of the total land area), where about 46% of the
country's population lives.  Coastal agriculture is limited to the irri-
gated river valleys where productivity per cultivated hectare is the high-
est in the country; farmers are more technically advanced and make much
more use of inputs and credit than do the farmers in the Andean aud Forest
Zones. With more than 300 days of sunshine, and temperatures which rarely
go below 10°C, growing conditions in the Coast are ideal for a wide range
of crops. The Zone produces over 40% of the country's gross value of crop
production, including sugar, rice, cotton, corn, potatoes, citrus, olives
and grapes. The Coastal Zone enjoys relatively close proximity to the
urban markets and a good transportation network and other infrastructure
and is relatively prosperous. Most of the irrigation systems are old and
do not permit efficient use of water and land. Drainage is generally
inadequate and loss of productive land through waterlogging and salination
has become a seríous problem. However, as the salts are generally non-
alkali, saline soils can be reclaimed by leaching and drainage.
1.08      The Sierra.  The Andean Highland Zone or Sierra, with about 44%
of the population, covers about 33.5 million ha (27% of the total land
area). It consists of steep mountains reaching over 5,000 meters above sea
level and high valleys located between the mountain ranges. The Sierra
accounts for well over half of the arable cropland in Peru (about 2.3
million out of a total of some 3.7 million ha). However, this represents
only 7% of the Sierra's total area. About half the remaining area (14.3
million ha) is used for grazing of sheep, cattle, alpaca and llama, mainly
on natural pastures on steep slopes at high altitudes. Annual cropping
under rainfed conditions predominates and is limíted to one short growing
séason from about November to March. Accentuating the farming dífficulties
are: severe topography, erratic rainfall, and extreme changes in tempera-
ture, including the risks of frosts during the greater part of the year.
Irrigation is mo-tly off-stream diversion in the relatively small valley



- 3 -
areas without major storage structures and is, consequently, very limited
in the dry season. Approxima¿ely 55% of the country's population dependent
on agriculture lives in the Sierra - with an average of about 1.9 ha of
cropland per family. Most of the agricultural production is for subsis-
tence, and production techniques are generally primitive.  Fallow periods
are long (three to four years for every year cropped), transport costs to
market centers are high, and opportunities for off-farm employment are
limited. While there is little scope for putting new land into production,
there is significant potential for increasing crop and livestock productiv-
ity, raising the marketable surplus, and improving farmers' subsistence and
living conditions through extension, research and the use of production
inputs.
1.09      The Forest Zone.  The Forest Zone, or Selva, east of the Andes
mountains covers about 81.6 millaon ha (63.8% of the total land area) but
accounts for only 10% of total population. It contains two
sub-zones consisting of the eastern Andean slopes - the Ceja de Selva - and
the Amazon jungle - the Selva Baja or Lower Selva. The Government's
Natural Resource Evaluation Agency (ONERN) has classified most soils in the
Lower Selva as marginal and suitable only for grazing and forestry. Soils
in the Ceja de Selva are generally of better quality, and agriculture there
is concentrated primarily in four river valleys. Fruits, coffee and tea
are the main crops in the Ceja de Selva, and livestock production is being
developed in some areas. Despite the relatively low soil quality, the
Selva region has been gaining importance economically because of oil
exploitation and construction of two Trans-Andean Highway projects, one
financed by the Bank and the other by the Inter-American Development Bank.
It is likely that these projects will give impetus to further agricul-
tural development in the region.
Government Policies
1.10      To overcome the negative effects of the previous administra-
tion's excessive intervention in the agricultural sector, the Government
has chosen to pursue a policy in which private enterprise would be given
more encouragement, Government intervention in agricultural marketing pro-
cesses, price controls and consumer subsidies would be reduced, and a more
balanced allocation of development resources throughout the country would
be made. Such a policy would especially benefit the rural population
(mostly smallholder) concentrated in the Sierra, which has not benefitted
from land reform and Government investment as much as the Coastal Zone.
With development and increased productívity in areas of major rural popula-
tion, immigration to the coastal cities would be reduced. The Government
has also adopted a general policy to improve agricultural supporting
services throughout the country to encourage agriculturalists to produce
efficiently; during the agrarian reform period, research services were
allowed to languish and extension virtually disappeared. The proposed
project therefore responds to one of the Government's most important policy
orientations.
Previous World Bank Participation
1.11      The Bank has made 12 agricultural loans to Peru.  Five of them,
in the períod 1954-1973, totalling US$55.0 million, were for agricultural
credit and were channelled through the Peruvian Agricultural Bank (BAP)



(105-PE, 162-PE, 257-PE, 415-PE and 933-PE). In general, BAP performance
has been acceptable and disbursements on the last loan (933-PE) have been
completed. Two other loans (67-PE of 1952 and 98-PE of 1954), totalling
US$3 million, were for farm machinery imports. Loans 114-PE of 1955 and
418-PE of 1965, totalling US$24.5 million, financed irrigation works and
land settlement in the San Lorenzo area within the Chira-Piura basins.
Owing to managerial problems, inadequate counterpart funding and shortage
of water, the second of these loans encountered considerable difficulties
and took 11 years to disburse but nevertheless achieved its basic goals and
produced important benefits (Project Performance Audit Report, SECM-48 of
January, 1978 and Impact Evaluation Report of October 1981). A third irri-
gation project (Loan 1403-PE) of US$25 million approved in 1977 financed
the rehabilitation of drainage and irrigation systems in six valleys in the
southern part of the Coastal Zone. Another irrigation rehabilitation
project in the Lower Piura area in the northern part of the Coastal Zone
was approved in 1980; it experienced some early management problems but its
implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The most recent loan was for
an integrated rural development project in the Sierra (Puno Rural Develop-
ment). A second rural development project (Alto Mayo) and a credit project
¡S also under preparation.
II. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Agrarian Reform
2.01      By far the most important factor influencing agricultural produc-
tion in Peru in the last decade has been the agrarian reform law of June
1969. By February 1980, 11.6 million ha of land in 16,483 farms had been
expropriated by Government under the land reform programs; this represented
48% of the total land in agricultural units in Peru. An area of 8.9 mil-
lion ha was distributed to 389,477 families. Only 700,850 ha (8%) were
adjudicated to individual families, with the remainder being distributed to
various forms of cooperative enterprises, which generally consisted of more
than 2,000 ha per unit. A further 2.7 million ha of the appropriated land
remain under state control pending adjudication, state afforestation or
other public use.
Adjudication Under the Land Reform Program
…---------…Recipient--------------------
Area ('000 ha)          Type            No.     No. of Families
700.8          Individuals      44,464           44,464
2,300.0          Cooperatives        599          107,231
1,800.0          Groups              906            49,654
924.6          Communities         485          125,655
2,800.0          Agricultural
Societies           60           61,016
374.6          Enterprises          13            1,507
d,900.0                                           389,477



- 5 -
In addition land title was given under separate legislation to 334 native
communities in the Selva, covering 2.1 million ha involving 11,350
families.
2.02      The military Government of the 1970s concentrated on implementa-
tion of the agrarian reform to meet objectives of redistribution of the
national land resource and increased agricultural production. However,
although a change in ownership occurred, agricultural production has
declined (para 1.01). A major problem in the areas affected by the adjudi-
cation has been the lack of cooperative spirit among cooperative and
society members.
2.03      Where large estates were left intact and members of the new coop-
eratives were already acquainted with the technology involved in operating
the enterprise, the cooperative organization has tended to perform better
than new cooperative organizations. However, even in the established
estates, problems have arisen through a gradual exodus of more qualified
and experienced technicians and administrators, and a failure of members to
appreciate the long-term business lnterests of the enterprise relative to
their desire for immediate benefits from ownership. In spite of generous
financial backing and support, the Government's efforts to entice small-
holders, landless laborers and Indian communities to work together in new
production or service cooperatives has met with little success. Most
farmers continue to farm their plots individually.
2.04      Another important feature was that 78% of the rural population
was not directly affected by the agrarian reform. As 65% of these non-
recipient rural families had holdings of less than 2 ha or were landless,
the concentration of Government support to the land reform farmers (partic-
ularly cooperative organizations) has meant that this subsector, which
could especially benefit from effective Government services, has been
neglected. The loss of skilled manpower from existing and previously
effective agricultural extension services (at least to the commercial
farming subsector) was another negative effect of Government's concentra-
tion of effort on land reform.
Input Supply and Marketing
2.05      Fertilizer.  Both the import and commercial distribution of
fertilizers in Peru are monopolized by the National Enterprise for
Marketing of Inputs (ENCI). This organization has 380 registered fertil-
izer sales outlets, of which 58% are private enterprise agents and the
remainder cooperatives that handle a number of commodities, including
fertilizer. Agriculture in the Coastal Zone utilizes about 80% of the
fertilizer, this being associated with the heavy dependence on irrigation
and the concentration of cotton and sugarcane.  Corn and potatoes are also
major users of fertilizers.



- 6 -
National Average Yields and Fertilizer Use (1979) kg/ha
Production            Fertilizer N-P-K
Cotton          1,810 (Seed Cotton)          157
Sugarcane    158,000 (Cane) 1/               151
Hard Corn       2,650                         56
Potatoes        7,980                         41
1/   Estimated.
Although most fertilizer is used in the Coastal Zone, 76% of the sales
outlets are in the Sierra and 8% in the Selva. This reflects the greater
distribution problems in the Sierra and the low requirements in the Selva
at the current stage of development. Despite the number of registered
sales outlets, the fixed trading margin imposed by the Government on pro-
duction inputs such as fertilizer is limiting the willingness of traders to
handle these goods. Government is reviewing the trading margin policies.
2.06      Over 60% of the fertilizer consumed in Peru is manufactured
within the country; processing is done by five enterprises of which three
are owned by Government and two are privately owned. Domestic production
represents about 80% of the nitrogen used, 40% of phosphorus and 24% of
of potassium fertilizer. Fertilizer use and imports decreased in 1979 and
1980 compared to previous years due to the incidence of drought and to the
cessation of Government's 35% fertilizer subsidy after January 1979.
2.07      The FAO has assisted ENCI in preparing a fertilizer marketing
manual and in conducting intensive three-day training courses for its
agents. ENCI plans to continue these training courses to improve fertil-
izer sales and service to buyers.
2.08      Seeds. Interest by producers in the use of improved seeds has
been increasing in Peru, but production of seed is limited by lack of
adequate facilities and qualified personnel. Improved seed is concentrated
on cotton, hard corn, rice, sorghum and potato crops, and the Coastal Zone
is more advanced in improved seed production and use than the Sierra.
2.09      Government in 1980 created a committee under the General Seed
Law to encourage improved seed production, processing, grading and market-
ing and to regulate production and marketing. The Government's policy to
improve its extension and applied research service would assist in promo-
tion of improved seed, and a well coordinated extension/research program
would ensure that plant breeders are well informed on the characteristics
required for improved varieties for the major production systems.
2.10      Plant Protection Inputs.  Plant protection materials are
readily available in the agricultural areas from private business
sources. Larger scale farmers tend to be aware of the virtues of particu-
lar disease and insect control products, but many farmers in the Sierra are
completely dependent on the advice of salesmen. An informed extension
service could greatly assist in ensuring efficient and cost effective use
of plant protectants.



- 7 -
2.11      Animal Feeds.  Although the majority of livestock products are
produced from ruminant animals utilizing pasture as fodder, the growing
deficit in red meat has led to a rapid expansion in the poultry industry
(meat and eggs) which demands processed, high quality feed. Peru has 13
feed manufacturing plants, and an estimated 80% of their output is used by
the poultry industry; swine and dairy animals consume most of the remain-
der. Supply of ingredients to the plants is not a problem as long as grain
imports are possible. Local cottonseed meal, fish meal, soybean meal and
molasses are utilized and soybean meal is also imported. Most of the
plants are located around Lima and are producing at only 30% of their total
installed capacity (1.4 million tons capacity). Consequently, although
animal feed concentrates are generally available, transport costs escalate
the feed price in- remote areas.
2.12      Agricultural Machinery.  The utilization of the agricultural
machinery and equipment inventory in Peru is very low. This has been
caused largely by inadequate maintenance and unavailability of spare
parts and restrictions on new machinery imports. The poor situation
within the sugar industry is of particular concern.   The Government appre-
ciates the unsatisfactory status of its agricultural machinery resource,
and in 1981 delegated the task of rationalizing national agricultural
machinery policy and services to the newly created National Institute for
Agricultural Research and Extension (INIPA).
2.13      Marketing.  In the early 1970s, the Government considered that
market forces were not resulting in sufficient resources being allocated to
the production of food and that monopolistic practices resulted in exces-
sive profit margins and inefficiencies in the marketing chain. To enhance
national food production, the Government decreed that 40% of all arable
lands be dedicated to foodcrops, and, in 1975, it set up a complicated
central planning system on production and pricing. Controls were imposed
on prices and on marketing margins, and marketing of exports, imports and
some domestically produced foodstuffs was taken over by Government agen-
cies; controls regulating the physical movement of agricultural goods were
also established. As a result, the farm area In food production increased,
but gross value of output per hectare declined, and net foreign exchange
savings were negative. The Government lacked manpower, money and storage
facilities, while wholesale markets and other marketing infrastructure were
inadequate.
2.14      The inefficiencies introduced by heavy state intervention in
the marketing system became a serious bottleneck to agricultural develop-
ment. The Government is presently changing its approach, and is reducing
its intervention to a level designed to prevent monopolistic practices by
middlemen and to maintain reasonable marketing margins to the benefit of
both producers and consumers.  In line with this new approach, in the last
few years, the Government has started to relax its controls on prices and
to reduce consumer subsidies on basic foodstuffs.  These new measures are
intended to stimulate production and improve producer returns, lower
imports and reduce the heavy burdens placed on the Government budget by
consumer subsidies resulting from earlier policies. At the time of project
appraisal, the producer prices of most crops were not significantly at
variance with equivalent international prices.



-8-
Credit
2.15      Peruvian Agricultural Bank.  BAP is a Government-owned institu-
tion with 18 branch offices, 54 agencies and 34 field offices. BAP pro-
vides approximately 85% of the institutional credit to the agriculture
sector, and in 1980 BAP's loan portfolio was about US$353 million; 10% of
agricultural credit is provided by commercial banks and the rest comes from
other development banks and direct Government allocations. Between 70% and
80% of BAP's annual lending is short-term production credit, mainly to
cooperative enterprises. In 1980, 64% of the value of BAP's new agricul-
tural loans went to cooperatives, almost 36% to medium-sized farms with
more than 20 ha, and only 0.4% to small-scale private farms. Prior to
1977, lending to medium-sized farms was much lower, representing less than
6% of BAP's portfolio. BAP's main source of short-term resources is the
Peruvian Central Bank (BCR) through its discount facilities. The limited
amount of long-term loans has generally been made with support from
external sources such as World Bank or Interamerican Development Bank (IDB)
loans. BAP's lending operations grew rapidly between 1970 and 1975, in
real terms, largely due to its rapidly expanding lending to cooperative
enterprises; at the same time private banks decreased lending to agricul-
ture. After 1975, the annual lending program progressively declined in
real terms until 1980 when it increased by 27% on 1979 lending; however,
the 1980 portfolio represented only 81% of the 1975 level in real terms.
2.16     Cotton and rice crops together consume 62% of BAP's short-term
agricultural loans. The percentages of specific crop lands which were
subject to short-term financing in 1979 were as follows: cotton and rice,
95%; hard corn, 49%; beans, 26%; and potatoes, 14%. Although livestock
represented 32% of the total value of agricultural production in 1979, it
absorbed only 7% of the total BAP agricultural credit (long and short
term). Beef enterprises consumed 47% of the livestock credit, followed by
dairy and sheep enterprises, and then poultry.
2.17     BAP has approximately 400 agrarian technicians who funetion as
loan supervisory staff. These supervisors assess and follow through on
loans extended to borrowers. The management of BAP considers that the
introduction of the service has resulted in steady improvement of loan
repayment rates, with arrears dropping from 32% in 1970 to 19% in 1975, 12%
in 1978, and 8% in 1979 for all crop and livestock loans.
2.18     Commercial Banks.  During most of the last decade, the Govern-
ment's credit policies did not provide any incentive to the commercial
oanking system to lend for agriculture, and agricultural borrowers came to
depend on subsidized credit through BAP at negative real interest rates in
a hiírily inflationary environment. At the end of 1978, however, the BCR
established a special line of credit ("Credito Regional Selectivo") for
US$12.5 million which rediscounted 100% of short-term loans made by commer-
cial banks. Recipients could be located anywhere in the country except the
province of Lima, and could have a paid-up capital of up to US$750,000.
Credits bore preferential interest rates (about 4% below the nominal
rates). About one-third of the outstanding credits apply to agriculture.
In early 1981, BCR allocated a further S/. 10,000 million (US$25.0 million)
for lending by commercial banks to agriculturalists at regular commercial
rates ("Credito Selectivo Agrario" - CSA). These two credit lines reflect



- 9 -
Government's intention to substantially expand institutional credit to the
agricultural sector. If the CSA proves successful, this will entail a
significant increase in agricultural credit extended by commercial banks
and in the total credit to agriculture. However, CSA remains a purely
banking operation and greater benefits would be obtained if a mechanism
were introduced to promote technically efficient and economic use of funds;
this would be especially advantageous in expanding long-term, agricultural
development credit through commercial banks.
2.19      Credit Supply and Demand.  Less than 20% of farmers obtain insti-
tutional credit.  The majority of the remainder (especially the small-scale
farmers without significant market produce) operate without credit, while
others use informal sources of credit at higher interest rates. Over 80%
of credit - institutional or informal - is short term. The most notable
deficiency in the institutionalized credit system has been its lack of
service to the private small-scale farmers for any form of short or long-
term credit (para 2.15). Of a total of about 1.3 million small-scale
farmers (less than 20 ha), in excess of 150,000 are estimated to market a
substantial proportion of their produce; however, only 30,000 to 40,000 of
these market producers receive credit. In addition, an estimated 400,000
small-scale farmers currently at the subsistence production level have some
potential to generate marketable surplus if they could acquire technology
and inputs. Use of production inputs would normally require short-term
credit. An effective extension service can provide the technology and can
promote the use of inputs and credit, but mechanisms to make credit readily
available to the majority of this potentially market-producing smallholder
group are not evident in Peru. The other major deficiency in the Peruvian
credit system is the low level of long-term lending to agriculture in
general; this implies that the level of investment in agriculture has also
been suboptimal with negative repercussions for agricultural development
and maintenance of assets. Government is in the process of adopting poli-
cies designed to improve the investment climate, and this will place
greater importance on the need for appropriate technical assistance and
access to supervised long-term credit. Without improvements in the delí-
very systems for long- and short-term credit to both large and small agri-
cultural enterprises, the benefits to be obtained from an otherwise effec-
tive extension service must be constrained to some extent.
Research and Extension
2.20     Peru has a good background in agricultural extension and research
extending back more than 50 years, although both activities suffered
serious neglect and deterioration during the decade of the 1970s. With USA
assistance the Interamerican Cooperative Service for Food Production
(SCIPA) was established as a semi-autonomous agency in 1943 and provided 46
extension agencies throughout Peru. In 1952, the USA also assisted the
Government in instituting the Cooperative Agricultural Research Program
(PCEA) as a semi-autonomous agency which established experimental stations
and undertook agricultural research to backstop extension work. In 1960,
PCEA and SCIPA were combined in a new agency - the Agricultural Research
and Extension Service (SIPA)-so that Government research and extension
activities were in the same semi-autonomous institution. In 1964 SIPA and
the National Office for Agricultural Reform were merged in a new semi-
autonomous agency, the Institute for Agrarian Reform and Agricultural



- 10 -
Extension (IRPA). The initial USA technical assistance program to SCIPA
and PCEA continued with the IRPA organization, and support was also given
to the National Agricultural University (NAU). Good cooperation existed
between IRPA and the NAU, and, through contractual arrangements, NAU staff
members participated effectively in the national research program.
2.21     After the military Government assumed office in 1968, agrarian
reform became the main policy priority in the agricultural sector, and in
1969 IRPA was integrated into the Ministry of Agriculture (MA). Extension
staff were subsequently shifted to agrarian reform assignments, and budget
constraints coupled with the general neglect of extension and research
virtually destroyed these services that had been successfully developed
during the previous 26 years. The de-emphasis on professional competence
and activities, coupled with a decline in salary scales in real terms in an
inflationary environment, resulted in a large number of the most expe-
rienced and highly trained agricultural scientists taking up appointments
in other countries. This serious "brain drain" will require a major effort
to redress.
2.22      Although the Government made several institutional changes in
the míd-70s in attempts to improve agricultural research and extension, the
problems of severe budgetary constraints and the lack of sufficiently
trained and qualified personnel did not bring the desired improvements.
The latest institutional change took place in 1981, when under Legislative
Decree No. 21 "Agricultural Sector Organization Law", the MA retained only
responsibility for policy planning and administrative, regulatory and
control functions in the agricultural sector. Direct responsibility for MA
technical and support functions and activities was given to four semi-
autonomous institutes and two public enterprises; of these, the National
Institute for Agriculture Research and Extension (INIPA) was charged with
responsibility for agricultural research, extension, farm mechanization and
rural marketing development.
National Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension (INIPA)
2.23     Since INIPA's creation in January 1981, it has worked vigorously
to organize itself for carrying out its research/extension responsibil-
ities. Towards this end, INIPA has created and staffed 18 administrative
districts for research and extension called Agricultural and Livestock
Investigation and Research Centers (CIPAs), each with its own Director who
reports to the Head of INIPA. Its farm mechanization and rural marketing
responsibilities remain to date, however, undefined.
2.24     In research, all 17 stations and 27 sub-stations for crops and
livestock located throughout the country were transferred from the National
Agricultural and Livestock Research Institute (INIA) to INIPA with their
staffs. A total of 307 graduate staff, 304 technical staff, 242 clerical
and administrative staff, and 125 other staff, including farm workers
assigned to researeh, were involved in the move. On the extension side, a
total of 885 personnel had been transferred from MA by June 30, 1981, con-
sisting of 329 graduate, 197 technical, 351 administrative and eight other
staff. Office facilities and equipment are still being transferred.



- 11 -
2.25     At present, INIPA is maintaining previous research programs.  Work
is conducted on a broad range of crops, fruits and livestock.  On the plant
side, the main research effort is devoted to cereals (corn, rice and
wheat), tubers and roots (potatoes, sweet potatoes and cassava), legumes
(beans, lima and lupins), soybean and cotton.1/ The research disciplines
are plant breeding, crop protection, response to fertilizer application,
cultural practices, soíl and water management, and production of basic
seed. Livestock research is concerned mainly with forage production
(alfalfa and pastures) and animal breeding (for guinea pigs, cattle,
poultry, alpacas and sheep). Although a large number of experiments are
listed for crops and lívestock (i.e., 1,693 experiments in public sector
research in 1978), the overall quality needs improvement (para 2.22).
2.26     During the last decade, agricultural extension has been virtually
non-existent because almost all extension staff were used in agrarian
reform work.  Since agrarian reform is now completed, most of this large
staff can now be deployed in INIPA's extension service.  INIPA is still in
the planning and training phases of its extension program, and expects to
have sufficient trained staff in place to form the nucleus of an improved
extension service by early 1982.
2.27     INIPA will continue the activities formerly carried out by INIA
in distributing and selling substantial quantities of improved mother seed
of tuber (potato), root crop, and cereals (rice, wheat and corn), as well
as breeding livestock (cattle, sheep and guinea pigs); hence, INIPA will be
the main supplier of basic seed and genetic material for use in MA seed
multiplication programs.
Specífil Problems of Research and Extension in Peru
2.28     Agroecological Factors. Agricultural research and extension pose
specíal problems in Peru because of the diverse agroecological zones and
the range of commodities encountered. Communications and accessibility in
the Selva and Sierra Zones are difficult, and suítable administrative and
organizational structures for both extension and research must be developed
to overcome these difficulties. In the case of agricultural research, the
first requirement is to provide a network of experimental stations sultably
located and with adequate land resources to cover the main agroecological
zones and commodities. Among the existing research statíons and sub-
statíons, many have inadequate land resources, and, in addition, a number
of them do not have land which is representative of farming conditions in
the area they are expected to serve.
2.29     Retention of Staff.  Over the past decade, the research and exten-
sion services were not able to retain or recruit adequate numbers of highly
trained and experienced staff. This was due to salary scales which were
relatively unattractive, and to a marked decline in the morale and techni-
cal professionalism within the institutions involved. Salary scales in the
research and extension institutions were and are in accordance with limits
imposed by public service regulations.  Since preparation of this project,
1/ In addition, cotton and sugarcane research jn two private sector institutes
is funded by fixed levies per ton of those commodíties marketed/year.



- 12 -
the management of INIPA has obtained approval for reclassification of staff
within the public service salary scale system; this will mean substantial
increases for both professional and technical staff. Apart from higher
financial rewards, there is a need to establish job satisfaction and a high
morale within the services. Adequate budgetary support by Government of
the research and extension programs, appropriate planning and management of
operations by senior staff within the institutions, ensuring that personnel
are fully aware of the conceptual framework within which they are working,
and assistance from experienced and interested specialists from external
organizations will all be crucial factors in the reestablishment of viable
agricultural services.
2.30      Staff Qualification and Training.  Although additional staff are
needed at virtually all the experimental stations, the lack of trained
personnel is the major staffing constraint. This deficiency can be over-
come by a major program in staff training at the M.Sc. and Ph.D. levels
supplemented with short courses in specific subjects, overseas visits to
appropriate institutions, and the employment of high-caliber research
scientists on a contract basis for major commodities and scientific discip-
lines. Although Ph.D. level training must be undertaken externally, most
M.Sc. training could be provided in Peru, particularly at the NAU at La
Molina. A major technical and methodological training program is also
required for the extension staff.
2.31     Funding and Support Services.  In the case of research, funds for
vehicles, buildings and maintenance of equipment have been meager, while
complicated bureaucratic procedures have impeded the flow of funds and
sometimes prevented complete usage of the limited funds available. A
common feature of agricultural research stations is the inadequacy of
support facilities and services. Library and scientific information serv-
ices are grossly inadequate and below the standard essential to support a
viable research effort.   Another supporting device which is deficient is
that of biometrics and computing.   Simple computing equipment at each main
station and at selected sub-stations should complement a centralized com-
puting and statistical service at INIPA headquarters. This would help in
plarning experiments and would upgrade the standard of design and analy-
sis. Moot existing experimental stations have inadequate laboratories,
labcratc y equipment and supplies. As extension has not been given any
emphasis, budgetary allocations have been largely absorbed in maintaining
staff in serviee without developing programs designed to effectively util-
ize extension personnel.
International Support for Agricultural Services
2.32     In addition to the substantial tecbl,ical assistance received
under USAID programs (para 2.20), Peru in recent years has been the reci-
pient of a number of grants from international and bilateral donors for
program or area specific research and extension projects. A list of proj-
ects funded with their location, the amount per project, and the funding
country or agency is presented in the project file. While each project has
a potential for enhancing agricultural production through improved serv-
ices, the absence of strong coordination by a designated authority has
reduced their impact. Apart from the proposed Bank project, the IDB and
USAID also have programs which have institutional repercussions for INIPA



- 13 -
as the national agency responsible for research and extension. The USAID
program of technical assistance for agricultural research, extension and
education complements the training activities in the proposed Bank proj-
ect. The IDB agricultural sector loan will be implemented within research
and extension strategies which have been defined by INIPA and which have
been adopted for the proposed Bank project. Before INIPA was established,
INIA and its predecessors had developed good working relationships with a
number of research centers of the Consultative Group for International
Agricultural Research (CGIAR), with FAO/UNDP, and with a number of North
American and Peruvian universities; INIPA intends to further develop and
strengthen these linkages.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01     Apart from institutional support for INIPA at the national level,
the project would give intensive field assistance to five CIPAs located in
the northwestern part of the country (see Map) and delineated by the
departments of Piura, Tumbas, Lambeyeque, Cajamarca and Ancash and the
province of Maranon. The five CIPAs were selected by INIPA for support
under the Bank project as they represented (a) contiguous administrative
divisions, which, as a group, covered the three major Peruvian
agroecological zones; and (b) a very important agricultural area which has
about 40% of the present total cultivated land and 43% of the irrigated
area in Peru. Hence, strategies and procedures which proved to be
effective in this area should be largely replicable in other agricultural
regions, and the existing agricultural resource base in the area would
enable the achievement of significant production impact from improved
services.
3.02      The five CIPAs cover,about 15 million ha, which is about 12% of
the country; approximately 1.4 million ha are cultivated. The population
is 5 million, of which 2.1 million live in rural areas. There are 445,000
farm families in the area; an estimated 320,000 have individual ownership
while the remaining 125,000 belong to various forms of farmer cooperative
enterprises. The average area cultivated per individual farmer is about
2.5 ha, while the average available per cooperative enterpise member is
approximately 5.0 ha. Although Peru-s three main agroecological zones
(paras 1.07 to 1.09) occur within the five CIPAs, 70% of farm families are
located in the Sierra, 28% in the Coast, and only 2% in the Selva. The
area of Selva in the proposed project is located at the medium altitudes
(1,000 to 1,500 meters above sea level) in CIPA Trujillo, and is largely in
the Ceja de Selva subzone.
3.03     The main crops in the five CIPAs include 83,000 ha of rice,
179,000 ha of cotton, 44,000 ha of sugarcane, 199,000 ha of corn, 43,000
ha of potatoes, 98,000 ha of wheat, 28,000 ha of beans, 11,000 ha of
sorghum, 2,500 ha of soybeans, 39,000 ha of fruits, 68,000 ha of forage,
and 117,000 ha of other crops. The livestock population consists of about
966,000 cattle, 376,000 pigs, 980,000 sheep, 640,000 goats, 3,000 alpacas,
250 llamas, 383,000 horses, 9.1 million guinea pigs, and 3.7 million
poultry. The natural pasture area comprises about 3.8 million ha. The
annual value of crop production for the five CIPAs is estimated at about



- 14 -
US$760 million and the value of livestock production at about US$480 mil-
lion. The total value of crop and livestock production in the five CIPAs
is over 45% of the country's total.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
4.01     The Government has requested Bank finance to help INIPA streng-
then its capabilities to provide effective support services to the
country's agricultural and livestock producers. This request followed an
agricultural sector review in July/August 1980, in which the Bank gave
strong support to the new Government's policy toward the sector, and a Bank
mission which identified an agricultural research and extension project in
March 1981. The project was subsequently prepared by INIPA staff with the
assistance of a consultant funded jointly by the Bank and the Bank/FAO
Cooperative Program. The project was appraised in September/October 1981.
Civil works in the proposed project are not complex, and a consulting
architect with experience in similar projects was included in the appraisal
mission to verify man-funetion-space requirements and unit construction
costs; private sector architects would undertake detall design work, and
construction in the various civil works components would be commenced in
the second half of 1982 and the first half of 1983.
B. Objectives
4.02     The main objective of the project would be to rehabilitate and
expand Peru's agricultural research and extension activities so that these
services would lead to significant increases in production and in producer
welfare. The project is designed to reinforce INIPA's overall planning,
management and technical capabilities at the national level and also to
provide more intensive field support for agricultural services in the five
northwestern CIPAs. The experience gained in these CIPAs would be used in
developing similar programs in the country's remaining 13 CIPAs. Factors
which would receive priority attention under the project include: (a)
measures to ensure relevance of research programs and extension messages to
actual farming systems; (b) adoption of extension methodologies appropriate
to different classes of farmers; (c) linkages between research and exten-
sion; (d) continuous monitoring and evaluation of programs to permit sound
decisions by INIPA management; and (e) a general upgrading of research and
extension staff capacity through intensive training programs and technical
assistance. In research, the project would be designed largely to improve
existing commodity oriented programs and research programs based on
specific scientific disciplines such as soil/water management. In exten-
sion, advantage would be taken of the need to rebuild an essentially
defunct service, and new extension methodologies and concepts would be
introduced.



- 15 -
C. Project Description
4.03    The project objectives of national institutional support and more
intensive assistance to the five selected CIPAs would be achieved through
the following activities:
(a) strengthening of the national and field research program by
(í) providing 10 internationally recruited research specialists
to reinforce ongoing research, introduce a farm system analysis
capacity, and upgrade in-service training of staff; (ii) pro-
viding additional land, office, laboratory and storage build-
ings for specific fíeld research stations; (iii) funding
investment and operating costs of transportation and secentific
and office equipment, and the salaries of incremental staff;
(iv) funding training of research staff; (v) providing 19 man-
months of consultancies to assist in specific research
problems; and (vi) funding research projects contracted to
selected national institutions;
(b) building up of the extension program by (i) providing 30 man-
years of internationally recruited consultants to introduce the
Training and Visit (T and V) system of extension throughout
Peru; (íi) constructing five CIPA headquarter buildings, 37
agency buildings and 44 sector buildings in the five CIPAs;
(iii) funding transportation equipment and salaries of incre-
mental staff in the five CIPAs; (iv) funding in-service train-
ing programs; and (v) providing a credit specialist to study
the modalities to extend credit to smallholders and train
credit officers within the extension service;
(c) reinforcement of INIPA's Planning Department by the addition
of five professional staff and the establishment of a monitor-
ing and evaluation unit and a project management unit; and
(d) construction of a documentation and training center at
La Molina in which the central library for INIPA's research and
extension activities would be located; provision of equipment,
incremental operating costs including salaries; and a three
man-month consultancy to organize the documentation services;
(e) provision of a computing and statistical service for INIPA,
including equipment, incremental salaries and operating costs,
and a 15-man-month consultancy to establish computer services;
and
(f) the provision of consultants to study (i) INIPA-s role in
providing agricultural machinery and marketing services (48
man-months); (ii) a second phase agricultural research and
extension project; and (iii) a third irrigation rehabilitation
project in coastal valleys.
4.04      The project would be implemented over five years and would be
administered by INIPA.



- 16 -
D. Detaíled Features
Strengthening the Research Program
4.05      National Research.  Research is organized along commodity lines
(e.g. cotton, rice, maize) and scientific discipline lines (e.g. soil/water
management, plant protection).  Each program has a lead station - six of
which are located in the five project CIPAs - where the research program
coordinator (a Peruvian scientist) is or will be located. Research work on
a particular commodity would be undertaken on a number of stations and sub-
stations, but the work on each station would be part of a national coordin-
ated program. Each station would have an off-station adaptive research
capacity. In the past, the research station network has developed consid-
erable technical information to enable improved agricultural production in
the Coastal, the Sierra and the Selva Zones. However, this information -
although sufficient to formulate adequate extension programs for the near
future - has become increasingly incomplete due to budget constraints and
insufficiently trained and experienced personnel.
4.06      Of the 10 international scientists, nine would be recruited as
co-leaders to the following program coordinators: rice, corn, small grain
cereals, pulses, potatoes, cotton, pasture and livestock, soil and water
management, and plant protection. One would be recruited to develop a farm
systems analysis capability using the off-station research team and
selected specialists from the extension services.
4.07      Farm system analysis would become an integral part of the
Peruvian agricultural research program. It is expected to play an impor-
tant role in analyzing all factors which have a bearing on adoption of
improved practices (e.g. access to credit, on-farm storage and processing,
competition with other crops, availability of mechanized or draft power and
farmer attitude to risk); such factors have impeded the use of available
technology in the past and have prevented farmers from using the land pro-
ductivity packages already developed (Annex l). Farm system analysis would
initially be limited to the five project CIPAs, and is expected to be con-
centrated in the broad ecological zone of the Sierra; farm system problems
are more important in this zone and research and extension programs have
given it less priority in the past. In early 1982, at least 10 staff of
economic, agronomic or sociological background would undergo an intensive
farm system analysis course (theoretical and practical) under the auspices
of the International Center for Potato Research - CIP. Arrangements for
this course in June/July 1982 were conformed at negotiations. This group
would form the core of trained professionals who would operate under the
direction of the farm system analysis coordinator.  The other formal
mechanism of ensuring research relevance which is supported under the
project is the establishment of a mobile off-station research unit on each
of the stations under the project (para 4.05).
4.08      Most of the 10 scientists would be selected and provided under
contract by the three CGIAR centers located in Latin America (CIP, CIAT and
CYMMYT). Each CGIAR center would provide technical backstopping and



- 17 -
support for these scientists and would, therefore, assist INIPA in the
development of work programs in each commodity/discipline. Assurances
were obtained that the 10 internationally recruited scientists would be
appointed before April 30, 1983 under terms and condit4ons agreed with the
Bank (Annex 2).
4.09    An Adviser would be provided to the Head of INIPA.  His main role
and function would be to provide strong support to developing INIPAVs
institutional capabilities as a research and extension service organiza-
tion. The draft terms of reference in this position are attached as
Annex 3; USAID would finance this position. The Adviser would pay particu-
lar attention to the meshing of support for INIPA from the Government
budget and international and other agencies into unified national pro-
grams. He would also have an important role in coordinating the interna-
tionally recruited specialists, with the overall objective of strengthening
the professional environment to expedite research within INIPA.
4.10    Provision is made under the project for INIPA to contract some
research activities to universities and other institutions (US$250,000 in
constant 1981 values per annum for five years). This would allow efficient
use of national resources in using existing capacity and facilities outside
INIPA where these institutions are equipped to complement INIPA-s research
function; it would also promote cooperation between all national institu-
tions participating in agricultural research.
4.11    CIPA Research.  Each of the five CIPAs would have a main research
station and suitably located sub-stations and experimental fields to
provide coverage of the main agroecological zones and commodities.
Research in a particular CIPA would be oriented toward solving production
problems pertaining to the farming systems of that CIPA. Each CIPA main
station would employ specialized staff that would include an entomologist,
a plant pathologist, a soils specialist, an agricultural economist, a
statistician and an agricultural engineer. These experts would have
responsibility for back-stopping and assisting in the sub-stations
research programs. The sub-stations would have the minimum staff (mainly
agronomists) required to implement the research program for each station.
Sub-station staff would, however, be specialized in the crops or scientific
disciplines which are relevant to their particular stations.
4.12    Research in the five CIPAs could be regarded as constituting an
integrated research region for north Peru. The Vista Florida station,
which is by far the strongest existing research facility, would be the lead
station in the region. It would have more specialized staff and equipment
than the other stations and would generally support the regional research
programs; it would also serve as the main research station for CIPA
Chiclayo. Vista Florida would have specific responsibility for providing a
routine soil and plant analysis service for the regional research stations
and for routine analysis as required by the extension service.
4.13    The national lead stations for five commodities and one discipline
would be in the project area:  the Vista Florida research station (Chiclayo
CIPA) is the center for the national rice and bean research programs and



- 18 -
for the national soil and water management and salinity program; Chota
station (Cajamarca CIPA) is the national soft corn research center; Chira
Piura station (Piura CIPA) is the center for national cotton research; and
lluaraz research station (Huaraz CIPA) is the national wheat research
center.
4.14    The project would include investment and incremental operating
costs on seven new stations (Huancabamba, San Ignacio, Olmos, Chota 2/
Otuzco, Viru 2/and Huamachuco) and 11 existing stations (Chira 2/, Los
Cedros, Bagua, Vista Florida _  Cajamarca, Jequetepeque, Paijan, Cajabamba,
Tingua, Huaraz 2/and Huari).  The investments (Annex 9, Table 1) include:
(a) additional land (355 ha);
(b) construction of office, laboratory, storage
and accommodation buildings (12,766 m2);
(c) scientific, agricultural, technical and office equipment;
(d) 46 pickups, 13 trucks, six small buses, and
seven passenger vehicles;
(e) incremental salaries and travelling costs (69 professional
staff, 94 technicians, niné clerical staff and 167 laborers)
and operation and maintenance of incremental investments;
(f) in-service and external training and education
of staff (59 ove seas scholarships - M.Sc. and
Ph.D, 86 local M.Sc. scholarships, 67 man-months
of attendance at scientific meetings, 52 man-
months of overseas short-term visits); and
(g) 19 man-months of consultancies to assíst in
specific research problems.
Assurances were obtained that no stations additional to those indicated
above would be established in the five CIPAs without previous justification
to the Bank. Assurances were also obtained that INIPA would prepare a
master plan by August 31, 1983 for future buildings on each research
station and substation in the five project CIPAs. This is designed to
ensure that long-term developments on the stations would be compatible with
investments made under the project. Assurances were obtained that the
covernment would take all action necessary to acquire sijitable land for
construction of all facilities (research and extension) included in the
project in a manner which would not impede the implementation schedule.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would submit a policy
statement satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1982 for the granting of
salary increments to INIPA staff which reflects the intentions to provide
incentives for performance and to retain staff of high calibre.
Reinforcing the Extension Program
4.15    National Extension.  The Government and INIPA have made a policy
decision to adapt and use the T and V extension techniques (para 4.17) to
2/ These are the main CIPA stations; the remainder are substations.



- 19 -
provide technical services to small-scale individual farmers.  The project
would finance 30 man-years of internationally recruited consultants to
train staff in the use of the T and V system of extension throughout Peru
and to inítiate and supervise its implementation over a period of three
years. Staff training in the T and V methodology commenced in January
1982. The national program would also benefit from the new institutional
arrangements adopted under the project, such as extension monitoring and
evaluation (paras 5.19 to 5.23), and formalized and regular subject matter
technical training (para 5.16). Investment in library and documentation
facilities (para 4.27) would also contribute to the development of a more
informed and better equipped extension service. Experience in the
implementation of known extension methodologies in the five CIPAs would
form the basis. for further adopting techniques to the conditions of
agriculture throughout Peru.
4.16    CIPA Extension.  The T and V methodology would be used in the
five northern CIPAs for extension to farmers with from 1 to 20 ha. Staff
from the area would receive early attention in the national T and V train-
ing program; here the resources would be provided under the project to
implement the extension program as soon as the preparatory phases of area
and producer situation analysis and collation of technical data have been
completed.
4.17    The T and V system incorporates the principles of programmed,
regular and supervised extension activities. The scheme would involve
regular visits at fortnightly intervals by extension workers ("secto-
ristas`) to selected contact farmers. Each contact farmer would be
selected from a group of about 10 neighboring farmers with similar resour-
ces and would represent the main contact point between the extension serv-
ice and farmers. Members of each group would be encouraged to attend the
regular visits by the sectoristas to the contact farmer nominated for their
group. The visit to a contact farmer would be on a set day and time within
the fortnightly schedule of each sectorista, who would have no duties other
than field extension. The exact work schedule of each sectorista would
depend upon the circumstances existing in any area, but would probably
involve five or six visits per day to the contact farmers in eight of every
10 working days.  One day in every fortnight would be spent in in-service
training and review to ensure that relevant information is continually
given to farmers in accordance with the requirements of the cycles of the
major crops being grown by the farmers. Recommendations would be given in
accordance with the farmers ability to adopt the improved practices, and
significant innovations would normally be implemented only on a small part
of the holding. In addition to the regular visit schedule to contact
farmers, the sectorista would be avaílable to follow-up on occasional
specific problems incurred by farmers in the group. Although a tentative
plan of operation was worked out for the five CIPAs during project
preparation, a more refined program was being devised in early 1982 on the
basis of more detaíled preparatory work undertaken under the supervision of
the T and V consultants. It is anticipated that the standard procedures
would have to be modified in some cases to fit particular circumstances.
4.18     The sectoristas would be supported in their work by extension
supervisors and by extension subject matter specialists (SMS),



- 20 -
agroeconomists and credit promotion officers. These supporting staff would
be the personnel used in the fortnightly in-service training sessions. The
SMS would maintain close liaision with the CIPA research personnel, who
would also be involved in the training sessions. The reseach program and
staff would be organized to ensure close cooperation with the extension
program. The USAID support to INIPA through technical assistance and
funding of training would be an integral part of INIPA s strategy to
integrate research with extension and develop intensive in-service training
of subject matter specialists in the extension service. INIPA would also
draw on resources of other Government institutions and projects to avaíl
itself of specialized expertise in training of its extension staff; the use
of soil and water management experts from irrigation rehabílitation
projects would be especially significant in this respect.
4.19    Very small-scale subsistence farmers with less than 1 ha and
isolated individuals would receive relevant technical information through
diffusion from those farmers more directly involved in the T and V program
and through mass media programs directed specifically to this target group
(para 4.27).
4.20    Cooperative types of enterprises would not be serviced by the
T and V sectoristas, but would receive attention from extension officers
(with university training) assigned exclusively to this role. These
officers would be assisted by the SMS and other staff supporting the T and
V sectoristas and would cooperate closely with the private agricultural
consulting firms attending many of these enterprises. The cooperative
extension officers would initially work with the technical administrators
employed by each cooperative enterprise; however, further analysis of
management decision-making within these production systems is necessary
before the most appropriate form of extension can be determined (paras 2.03
and 5.23). A factor which would further affect the ultimate scheme of
extension to these enterprises is their final internal organizational
arrangements, which are under review by the Government. Regardless of the
eventual extension system developed, the principle of programmed activities
with continuous review of progress would be adopted.
4.21    Farmers with more than 20 ha would largely rely on technical advice
provided by private consultants and on information resulting from their own
technical inquiries to subject matter specialists and researchers in INIPA
and other Government and non-Government institutions. The technical
support services of INIPA would be available to the private consultants
free of charge.
4.22     Agricultural Credit Support.  Although the availability of credit
funds (at least for short-term credit) is apparently not a constraint to
farmer uptake of loans, the existing credit delivery to agriculturalists is
not satisfactory (para 2.19); the project would contribute to improvement
in this aspect of agricultural production. Each CIPA would have an agri-
cultural credit specialist at the main center supported by a credit officer
in each zone. Assurances were obtained that a credit subcommittee of the
regional coordination committees in each CIPA would be formed with the
objective of regularly analyzing (at least at quarterly intervals) the
supply, demand and delivery aspects of credit and production inputs; an



- 21 -
agreement between INIPA and BAP would be required within five months after
the appointment of the credit coordinator (see below) to formalize this
funetion. Representatives of BAP and other locally represented credit
institutions, major input suppliers and the CIPA director of INIPA with his
head of extension and the credit specialist would partícipate in the sub-
committee. Credit staff in the extension service would promote credit
systems (directly and also through sectoristas) which are designed to maxi-
mize coverage of farmers whilst maintaining acceptable levels of lending
risk and administrative costs per value of loan made by the credit institu-
tions; these criteria imply that individual small-scale producers would be
grouped into borrowing entities in various ways. With cooperative farms,
the credit staff would assist the extension officers assigned to these
enterprises in preparing development plans for credit applications.
Private agricultural consultants working with larger producers and coopera-
tives would also be assisted by the credit staff. The programs of the
extension credit staff would relate to the deliberations of the CIPA credit
subcommittees and would be coordínated with the credit programs of the
financing institutions. Administrative supervision of credit would remain
the responsibility of personnel from the financing institutions. As there
is little detailed knowledge of the credit situation in the small-scale
individual farmer sub-sector, a study of this situation would be undertaken
by credit staff in the first year of the project to assist in the defini-
tion and development of suitable credit delivery mechanisms (Annex 4). A
credit coordinator would be internationally recruited under the project for
three years to train personnel, organize the credit assistance program, and
design and coordinate the study on usage of credit by smallholders.
Assurances were obtained that the credit specialist would be appointed
before December 31, 1982 under terms and conditions agreed with the Bank.
Assurances were also obtained that the terms of reference of the credit
study would be approved by the Bank and that it would be commenced within
five months after the appointment of the credit coordinator; the study
would be designed in close cooperation with BAP officials.
4.23    The project would provide direct financial support (Annex 9,
Table 2) to the development of the extension program in the five CIPAs
through:
(a) the construction of 37 agency buildings (office or office/
dwelling) and 44 sector buildings (office/dwelling) (6,470 m2)
(b) the construction of five headquarter buildings, one in each
CIPA, totalling 4,610 m2 (Annex 9, Table 3);
(c) the purchase of 192 pickups, six trucks, six small buses,
424 motorcycles, and 16 bicycles;
(d) incremental salaries (80 professional, 162 technical and 34
clerical and lower level staff) and operating costs of the
program; and
(e) the cost of in-service training programs, short
courses and external training.



- 22 -
Planning
4.24     The Department of Planning in INIPA would have an important role
in programming, coordinating and monitoring INIPA-s activities. An addi-
tional agricultural economist, a systems analyst and an accountant would be
added to the professional staff. The engineering planning section would be
expanded with the addition of two architects (para 5.04). A monitoring and
evaluation unit would be established (para 5.23) with five professionals in
the central unit supported by field staff. The Planning Department and its
operating units would be assisted through the provision of vehicles and
equipment, local and external training courses, and incremental salaries
and operating costs (Annex 9, Tables 4, 5 and 6). A Project Management
Unit would also be established under the Director of Planning (para 5.03)
and would be provided with a vehicle.
Technical Assistance and Studies
4.25     In addition to the technical assistance for research and exten-
sion programs already referred to, the project would finance consultancies
for project start-up assistance, computer services for research and
accounting, monitoring and evaluation and library services. The costs of
each consultancy to INIPA are estimated in Annex 9, Table 5, and range from
US$8,500 to US$9,500 per man-month. Internationally recruited resident
experts are costed at US$8,330 per man-month before inflation contingen-
cies (excluding local travelling costs). The one confirmed consultancy
with the Israeli Association for International Cooperation for Technical
Assistance is for training in the T and V methodology for 30 man-years at
US$7,330 per man-month. Two man-years of consultancy would be provided for
each of two studies to determine the most appropriate role for INIPA in
agricultural machinery services and marketing of agricultural produce in
rural areas. The institution charged with the provision of research and
extension services would ideally not be given responsibility for
agricultural machinery and marketing services; although important
components in the total production process, the commercial nature of the
latter services would add another dimension to the already heavy management
burden within INIPA. Local professional architectural design/supervision
costs are based on standard fees used in Peru. A study on credit to
smallholders would be undertaken by the credit coordinator and the credit
staff attached to the extension service (para 4.22).
4.26     The project provides for one man-year of technical assistance
for future project preparation (Annex 8, Table 5). The project represents
the first phase of an institution building program, which, if successful,
should lead to further investment in Peruvian research and extension. The
emphasis given under the project to developing a capacity to coordinate
assistance from various financiers and donors through the Planning
Department of INIPA would help ensure appropriate planning for the future.
The farm system analysis (Annex 1) and the credit study (Annex 4) to be
undertaken in the project would further identify suspected problems in
delivery of production inputs and credit to small-scale farmers. In addi-
tion to the preparation of a follow-on project, the Bank loan would support
the preparation of a third irrigation rehabilitation project which is not
directly related to INIPA-s activities. The project would be located in
eight coastal valleys north of Lima and would be executed by the National



- 23 -
Institute for the Expansion of Agricultural Development (INAF) through the
Special Project for Rehabilitation of Coastal Lands (Annex 5 and Annex 9,
Table 5). The estimated cost of expatriate consultants range from US$9,500
to US$11,500 per man-month for engineering and agroeconomic studies in the
INAF subproject. Satisfactory contractual arrangements between the
Government (as Borrower) and INAF (as executing agent) would be a condition
of loan disbursement on this component of the project.
Documentation and Training Center
4.27     A Documentation and Training Center (2,018 m2) would be cons-
tructed at La Molina and equipped at a cost of US$900,000 in constant
1981 values before contingencies (Annex 9, Table 7). The documentation
unit would serve as the central library for INIPA s research and extension
activities in the CIPAs. Although the regular training sessions for the T
and V system and much of the technical in-service training of SMS would be
undertaken in the CIPAs, this central facility would be used for short
courses for professional staff (research and extension) and for courses in
administration. The center would also have the capacity to produce reports
and to prepare mass media extension material (brochures, leaflets, photo-
graphs, radio programs, and the like) to support the CIPA programs. The
project would provide one pickup, two sedans, one minibus and two buses.
The technical and administrative training courses, library subscriptions
and operating costs of incremental equipment and vehicles would also be
financed.  The salaries and travelling costs of incremental professional
staff (two extension media specialists and two translators) and technicians
and clerical staff are included, as is the cost of a three-man-month con-
sultancy to organize the documentation services. 3/ Each CIPA would have
a small technical communication unit with one or two professional and
supporting staff to undertake the mass media programs in each CIPA; the
incremental staff, one vehicle and incremental operating costs would be
financed under the project in each of the five CIPAs (Annex 9, Table 8).
Computing and Statistical Service
4.28     These services would be established under the project.
Scientific and office equipment, one pickup, overseas (eight man-years,
M.Sc. and Ph.D.) and local fellowships (four man-years, M.Sc.), training
courses, library subscriptions and incremental salaries (three profes-
sionals, three technicíans, and one clerical staff) and operating costs
would be financed (Annex 9, Table 9). A total of 15 man-months of consul-
tancy on the establishment of computer services is also included. This
would be used partly on the scientific program and partly on the prepara-
tion of computerized accounting services in INIPA.
E. Project Costs
4.29      Total estimated net project cost, including contingencies but
excluding taxes, is US$80.0 million. The detailed project costs and
3/ The USAID Technical assistance program includes an agricultural
education/training specialist advisor; he would be on a two-year
contract commencing in mid-1982 and would be concerned with INIPA and
university training programs.



- 2 4 -
PROJECT COST TABLE
US$ '000
For.
Exch.
Local      Foreign   Total       Local      Foreign   Total       %
-------S/. Millions-----         ---------US$ '000--------
RESEARCH
Civil Works                            1,014        676      1,690      2,474      1,650      4,124    40
Equipment and Transportation             445      1,780      2,225      1,085      4,341      5,426    80
Traíning and Services                    240        560        800        585      1,365      1,950    70
Incremental Operating Costs            3,419        751      4,170      8,340      1,831    10,171    18
Subtotal                             5,118      3,767      8,885    12,484       9,187    21,671    42
EXTENSION
Civil Works                              576        384        961      1,406        937      2,343    40
Equípment and Transportation             308      1,231      1,539        751      3,003      3,754    80
Training and Services                    238         46        283        580        111        691    16
Incremental Operating Costs            4,943      1,085      6,027    12,055       2,646    14,701    18
Subtotal                             6,065      2,746      8,810    14,792       6,697    21,489    31
CIPA HEADQUARTERS
Civil Works                              332        221        553        809        539      1,348    40
Equipment and Transportation              15         60         75         36        146        182    80
Incremental Operating Costs              518        114        632      1,264        278      1,542    18
Subtotal                               865        395      1,260      2,109        963      3,072    31
PLANNING,TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ANJD STUJIES
Equipment and Transportation              24         96        121         59        235        294    80
Training and Technical Assistance        697      3,949      4,646      1,700      9,632    11,332    85
Incremental Operating Costs              294         65        359        717        158        875    18
Monitoring and Evaluation
Equipment and Transportation               5         20         25         12         48         60    80
Incremental Operating Costs              205         36        241        500         88        588    15
Subtotal                             1,225      4,166      5,391      2,988    10,161    13,149    77
DOCUMENTATION AND TRAINING CENTER
AND SERVICES
Civil Works                              160        107         267       391        261        652    40
Equipment and Transportation              42        166         207       101        404        505    80
Training and Services                    168        205         374       410        501        911    55
Incremental Operating Costs              552         97         649    1,346         237      1,583    15
Subtotal                               922        575      1,497      2,248      1,403      3,651    38
COMPUTING AND STATISTICAL SERVICES
Equipment and Transportation              13        112        125         30        275        305    90
Training and Services                     16         49         65         40        119        159    75
Incremental Operating Costs              134         30        165        328         72        400    18
Subtotal                               163        191        355        398        466        865    54
TOTAL BASE COST                         14,358    11,844    26,198    35,020    28,877    63,897    45
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                     602        454      1,056      1,468      1,107      2,575    43
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      3,792      3,102      6,895      9,249      7,568    16,817    45
TOTAL COST                              18,752    15,396    34,148    45,737    37,552    83,289    45
Local Taxes Indluded in
Total Cost                             1,348        -        1,348      3,289        -        3,289
Project Cost Net of Taxes               17,404    15,396    32,800    42,448    37,552    80,000    47
January 5, 1982



- 25 -
phasing are in Annex 9, Table 10 and Charts 1 and 2, and project costs are
summarized below. Base costs are in June 1981 values. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 15% on site work and construction in the
cívil works program, 5% on equipment and transportation, and 5% on
incremental operating costs other than salaries and wages. Peru has
experienced and continues to experience very high domestic rates of
inflation. However, Peru uses a system of regular adjustment in its
exchange rates relative to hard currencies which approximately covers the
differential between domestic and international inflation. The price
contingencies in the project costs are therefore calculated on US dollar
base values and are estimated at 9.0%, 8.0%, 7.5%, 7.5%, 7.0% and 6.0%
annually for years 1981/82 to 1986/87, respectively.
F. Project Financing
4.30     Half of the the net project costs of US$80.0 million would be
financed through a Bank loan, with the remainder being met from
Government resources. The proposed Bank loan would cover foreign ex-
change costs (US$37.6 million) and US$2.4 million of local currency
cost. A project preparation facility (PPF) for US$1 million has
already been approved to permit essential pre-effectiveness project
activities (consultancies for extension training, engineering design,
project start-up, computer services and farm system analysis train-
ing), and would be refinanced from the loan after effectiveness.
A front-end fee of US$600,000 would be capitalized and included in the
loan.
Financing Plan
US$ million
Government        World Bank        Total
Research                  17.4              21.9            39.3
Extension                19.4               13.0            32.4
Supporting
Services                 5.0                3.5             8.5
Preparation of
Irrig. Rehab. Proj.      1.5                1.6             3.1
Front-end Fee              -                 0.6             0.6
Total                   43.3               40.6            83.9
G. Procurement
Civil Works
4.31      There is a central documentation and training center to be
constructed in La Molina at a cost of approximately US$800,000 and five
CIPA headquarters to be constructed, each at a cost of about US$300,000.
The remaining civil works are offices, laboratories, storage and equipment



- 26 -
sheds and dwellings on research stations and in extension agencies and
sectors. In most of these latter cases, the civil works would be packaged
into contracts under US$1.0 million. In some instances, contracts of less
than US$100,000 would be incurred due to the isolation and the small nature
of the facility (e.g. some sector office/dwellings). Because the civil
works contracts are not of a scale which is liable to interest foreign
contractors, local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be acceptable. However, INIPA would be obliged to combine
construction packages where practicable to maximize competing bids from
established and reputable contractors. Contracts for construction of:
(a) the first of the CIPA headquarters; (b) the first research station
package under the project; and (c) all contracts in excess of US$500,000,
would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation;
this will account for about 80% of the total estimated value of works.
Other contracts will be subject to random post review by the Bank after
contract award. Suitable local construction firms exist in sufficient
numbers to ensure adequate competition.
Goods
4.32      As over 200 vehicles and more than 400 motorcycles (totalling
about US$3.0 million) would be procured under the project, orders would be
grouped as much as possible, and international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines would be
used. INIPA is considering the sale of vehicles and motorcycles to its
employees working in the project under hire-purchase arrangements. This
would be taken into consideration in specifying details in the invitations
to bid, and the form of hire-purchase contracts between INIPA and employees
would have prior Bank approval. Furniture and supplies (totalling about
US$1.3 million) would be grouped where feasible; orders over US$50,000
would be subject to LCB, while purchases below US$50,000 would be by
prudent shopping procedures in accordance with local regulations which must
be acceptable to the Bank. The total value of goods procured under the
latter procedure is not expected to exceed US$250,000 during the project
period. Scientific and technical equipment and agricultural machinery
(totalling about US$6.0 million) would be grouped to the extent possible
and be subject to ICB for packages over US$100,000 (hence most would be
procured under ICB); packages between US$50,000 and US$100,000 would
require LCB, while packages of less than US$50,000 could be procured
through prudent shopping (to a maximum aggregate of US$150,000 under the
project).   However, as it would be desirable that scientific and technical
equipment be compatible with INIPA's existing facilities for maintenance
and servicing purposes, the Bank would consider requests on an individual
item basis for purchase through direct negotiation of specified types of
this equipment. The total value of scientific and technical equipment
procured through direct negotiations is not expected to exceed US$600,000
during the project period. Both domestic and regional preferences would
apply to ICB for vehicles, equipment and machinery. All bidding packages
for goods estimated to cost over US$1.0 million would be subject to the
Bank's prior review of procurement documentation, resulting in a coverage



- 27 -
of about 80% of contracts for goods; the balance of goods contracts would
be subject to random post review by the Bank after contract award.
Services
4.33      Consultants and expatriate assistance would be hired on the basis
of qualifications and experience relevant to job descriptions and in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Scholarships extending for one academic
year or more and external travel associated with technical training
financed under the loan would have the prior approval of the Bank.
Contracts with local universities for undertaking specific research
projects for INIPA would require prior Bank approval. The CGIAR group of
research centers would cooperate in the recruitment of most of the specia-
lized research co-leaders. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the provisions of this and the preceding paragraphs on procurement-would be
followed.
H. Disbursement
4.34    The project would be implemented over five years and disbursements
under the Bank loan would extend over five years and nine months (Annex 9,
Table 11). The disbursement schedule has a high rate of disbursement in
the early years of the project compared to historical figures for agricul-
tural sector projects in the region, but profiles of Bank-wide agricultural
research and extension projects to date indicate a disbursement rate
greater than that estimated for the proposed project. The assumed schedule
is justified because (a) a PPF for US$1.0 million for pre-project activ-
ities has been approved; (b) the major vehicle order is expected to be
initiated prior to loan effectiveness; (c) detailed specifications for the
relatively uncomplicated construction of project buildings would be pre-
pared by private architects under contract commencing in early 1982;
(d) most internationally recruited experts would be In post by December
1982; and (e) a project start-up consultant who is experienced in Bank
operations would be employed prior to the installation of an international-
ly recruited project manager in the second half of 1982. Disbursement/
reimbursement percentages would be as follows:
Category                      Item                             Amount
(US$ million)
1     Vehicles, motorcycles, machinery, scientific
and technical equipment for INIPA -- 100% of
foreign expenditures and 80% of local expen-
ditures:                                                9.2
II     Technical assistance, consultant, training and
library services:                                      12.0



- 28 -
Category                       Item                             Amount
(US$ million)
(a) Services of consultants and experts, inclu-
ding project manager - 100% of expenditures;
(b) Training in Peru and abroad, research con-
tracts and library services - 100% of
foreign and 30% of local expenditures;
III     Civil works, architectural/engineering fees,
and furnishings - 30% of local expenditures:             3.2
IV     Incremental salaries and operating and
maintenance costs:                                       9.0
(a) Research:
(i) US$3,250 annually per professional
in research in the five CIPAs in
excess of 56 up to an increment of
69 professionals;
(ii) US$1,730 annually per technician in
research in the five CIPAs in excess
of 52 up to an increment of 94 tech-
nicians; and
(iii) US$1,580 annually per clerical and
support staff in research in the five
CIPAs in excess of 285 up to an
increment of 262 staff.
The methodology for item IV(a) is designed to cover reimbursement for
salary, wages, benefits (exclusive of local taxes), travelling costs, and
costs of operating and maintaining incremental vehicles and investments for
research in the five CIPAs eligible for financing under the loan; all
reimbursement is converted to a unit value per incremental staff.
(b) Salaries, wages and benefits for
extension and INIPA supporting services
incremental staff:
(i) Salaries, wages and benefits for
incremental extension and credit
promotion staff in the fi-ie CIPAs
(professionals on 126 base to maximum
increment of 80; technicians on 220
base to maximum increment of 162;
supporting clerical and other staff on
47 base to maximum increment of 34);



- 29 -
Category                      Item                              Amount
(US$ million)
(Hi) Salaries, wages and benefits for
incremental staff in INIPA-s Planning
Department, Documentation and Tralning
Center, Computing and Statistical
Services in the central office and in
the headquarters of the five CIPAs;
(iii) Salaries, wages and benefits of monitoring
and evaluation staff in the headquarters
unit and field offices in the 5 CIPAs;
- 50% of expenditures up to an aggregate disburse-
ment under this subcategory of US$1.4 million; 30%
thereafter until the aggregate reaches US$2.7
million; and 10% thereafter.
This reimbursement percentage per incremental staff is designed to cover
reimbursement eligible on not only incremental staff but also the real
salary increase for existing staff.
(c) Travelling and operational costs for extension
and INIPA supporting services:
(i) All travelling, maintenance and operational
costs of the extension service in the five
CIPAs (exclusive of salaries and benefits
and other costs such as training which may
be reimbursed under other expenditure
categories);
(íi) Travelling costs of incremental staff and
operational and maintenance costs of
investments financed under the project In
the departments and services included in
IV(b)(ii); and
(iii) All travelling costs of monitoring and
evaluation staff in the headquarters unit
and field offices in the 5 CIPAs, and
operation and maintenance of monitoring
investments financed under the project;
- 50% of expenditures up to an aggregate disburse-
ment under this sub-category of US$1.1 million;
30% thereafter until the aggregate reaches US$2.2
million; and 10% thereafter,



- 30 -
Category                       Item                             Amount
(US$ million)
V.    Preparation of Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project                                                 1.6
(a) Technical assistance and consultancy
contracts - 100% of foreign expenditures;
(b) Vehicles and equipment - 100% of foreign
expenditures and 80% of local expenditures;
VI.    Project Preparation Facility                            1.0
Technical assistance, training and
consultancy services - 100% of foreign
expenditures and 30% of local expenditures
VII.    Unallocated                                             4.0
40.0
Disbursement for incremental salaries and operating and maintenance costs
would be made on the basis of a statement of expenditure certified by the
Head of INIPA.
1. Accounts and Audit
4.35      INIPA has its own budgeting, accounting and internal audit
capacity. Central accounts reflect CIPA expenditures separately for admin-
istration, research and extension. Further dissection of accounts are made
at the level of the CIPA. By Government regulation, INIPAis accounts must
be prepared by February 28 for the preceding financial year (January 1 to
December 31).
4.36      In addition to accounts for the institution as a whole, INIPA
would prepare separate project accounts which are defined for this purposes
as:
(a) research, extension and administration accounts (capital and
recurrent) for the five CIPAs, Piura, Chiclayo, Cajamarca,
Trujillo and Huaraz;
(b)  the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, the Engineering Planning
Service Unit (para 5.04), and the Project Management Unit
capital and recurrent);
(c) feasibility studíes, consultancy, expatriate expert employment
and external studies/training financed under the project
(d) the Training and Documentation Center (capital and recurrent).
Certified copies of externally audited accounts for INIPA as an institution
and of project accounts would be forwarded to the Bank within six months of



- 31 -
the close of each financial year.  The project account audit report would
verify the statements of expenditure used for reímbursement from the Bank
loan. Assurances were obtained that the requested audited project and
INIPA accounts would be provided.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
INIPA
5.01     INIPA would be the project executing agency for all project
components other than the preparation of the third irrigation
rehabilitation project. Registration of the Loan Agreement and
satisfactory contractual arrangements between the Government (as Borrower)
and INIPA (as executing agent) would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
The institution's organogram is presented in Annex 9, Chart 3. There are
two major executing departments - Research and Extension. A third
executing department is the National Machinery Service, but this INIPA
function would not be funded under the project (para 4.25). The Head of
INIPA is supported by central departments of Planning, Control and
Administration. The Department of Technical Communication also operates as
a service unit to the executing departments. The project includes an
Adviser to the Head of INIPA, whose functions are described in paragraph
4.09 and Annex 2. The country is divided into 18 CIPAs, each with its own
Director who is directly responsible to the Head of INIPA. Most
departments are represented at the CIPA level where they function as part
of the CIPA unit. An administrative/operational deputy to the Head of
INIPA is being recruited to reduce the overall management load in this
institution which has three executing departments, four administrative
service departments and 18 operational CIPAs.
Planning Department
5.02     The Planning Department has a key role in INIPA administration
and contains the Project Management Unit (PMU) specifically responsible for
the Bank-supported project. The other two major international financiers
of INIPA's programs - IDB and USAID would also have project units alongside
the PMU under the Director of Planning. The programs of the three interna-
tional agencies would be coordinated through the Director of Planning, who
would ensure that all external support is complementary and designed to
meet INIPA's development and operational objectives; in addition to the
three major financiers, a number of bilateral and other institutions are
providing significant assistance to INIPA, and this assistance would also
be coordinated through the Planning Department.
5.03     Project Management Unit.  The PMU would be staffed with an inter-
nationally recruited Project Manager (three-year contract) with experience
in administering development projects of this nature, and supporting admin-
istrative staff including two assistants with accounting/procurement expe-
rience.  The Project Manager would supervise the operations of the Bank
project and assist INIPA in planning, organization and coordination of the
project activities (Annex 2). The appointment of a Project Manager
acceptable to the Bank under terms of reference and conditions agreed with
the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness. To facilitate



- 32 -
pre-effectiveness, project start-up operations (e.g. procurement,
recruitment), the project provides for the employment of a consultant with
experience in Bank project operations in the first half of 1982 (Annex 9,
Table 5 and Chart 2). The employment of this consultant would require Bank
approval and he would operate in the PMU.
5.04      Engineering Planning Service Unit.  Apart from its functions of
planning, undertaking feasibility studies, project preparation and coordin-
ation of external assistance, the Planning Department would have two units
which are very important for project implementation - a monitoring and
evaluation unit (para 5.23 and Annex 6) and an engineering planning service
unit (EPSU). Assurances were obtained that EPSU would function as a
technical support unit within INIPA to ensure efficient execution of civil
works (Annex 7) and a condition of effectiveness would be that it is
staffed and operating in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. INIPA intends
to use the private sector for professional services in detailed
architectural and engineering designs and in supervision of construction;
an outline of duties of these executive architects is presented in Annex
8. Details of civil works are included in the Project File (Annex 10).
CIPA Administration
5.05     Each CIPA Director, who reports to the Head of INIPA, wonld be
responsible for administering all INIPA activities, including specific
project activities, in his respective CIPA. In the case of project activ-
ities, however, he would liaise closely with the PMU. He would administer
and control INIPA's agreed budget for his CIPA. The CIPA headquarters
building constructed under the project would accommodate the CIPA Director,
administrative staff, the senior extension officer for the CIPA, represen-
tatives of the agroeconomic and credit promotion units of the Department of
Extension, officers from the Department of Technical Communication, and
monitoring staff.The CIPA Director would also be supported by a research
liaision officer who would maintain contact with the research heads located
on CIPA stations and substations. A particular responsibility of the CIPA
Director would be to ensure close coordination of extension staff with the
MA staff responsible for allocation of irrigation water to user groups.
5.06     Although the CIPA Director would be responsible for CIPA manage-
ment and the administration of all staff assigned to his CIPA, the functio-
nal responsibility for the research and extension activities in his CIPA
would rest with INIPA's Executive Directors of Research (RED) and Extension
(EED), respectively.
Research
5.07     INIPA's RED would have full responsibility for project research
programs at both CIPA and national levels and would appoint the research
staff to all CIPAs.  CIPA research prograus and budget proposals would be
drawn up by the research staff in each CIPA with inputs from other techni-
cal staff in the CIPA (particularly extension staff) and farmers'



- 33 -
organizations; the programs would be discussed and agreed upon with the
appropriate national research staff and the Adviser to the Head of INIPA
before final approval by the RED.
5.08     Through its national program coordinators, the RED would be
responsible for overall supervision of the research activities and would
ensure that agreed programs are implemented and that satisfactory standards
and controls are maintained. An important feature of research management
introduced under the project would be the establishment of detailed annual
research budgets for each CIPA In the project area. Once these budgets
have been agreed and approved, CIPA directors would not have discretionary
power to make modifications in administering them. A budgetary change
would be subject to approval by the RED.
5.09     Contracts for research to be undertaken by cooperating Peruvian
universities and other agencies would be initiated by the RED and would be
coordinated and processed through the Department of Planning. Assurances
were obtained that, prior to letting research contracts to be financed from
the Bank loan, Bank approval would be obtained.
5.10     The 10 internationally recruited senior commodity and discipline
specialists (para 4.08) would be directly responsible to the RED (who would
be supported by the Adviser to the Head of INIPA in research programming,
coordination and operations) on technical matters and routine administra-
tive matters, and would channel administrative matters concerned with their
expatriate status through the Project Manager. Each specialist would
operate as a co-leader to INIPA½s program coordinator in his field and
would participate actively in the planning and execution of the research
and in-service training programs (Annex 2).
5.11     Sufficient professional and technical staff exist in Peru to
staff the proposed research program in the five CIPAs, although emphasis
would be given under the project to upgrading staff quality by in-service
training programs and advanced education scholarships (Annex 9, Tables 1
and 2). Additional staff needed are indicated in the following table:
Incremental Research Staff for the Five CIPAs
June  81         With Project    Increment
Professionals           56                  125             69
Technicians             52                  146             94
Clerical                30                  125             95
Labor                  255                  422            167
Extension
5.12     The Executive Director for Extension (EED) would have funetional
responsibílity for the national agricultural extension service, including
the service in the five CIPAs in the project area. Senior extension staff



- 34 -
in each CIPA would participate in planning and budgeting, but the EED would
have final responsibility for programs, staffing, location of all facil-
ities and for approving the annual extension budget for each CIPA. The EED
has adequate headquarters staff to discharge these responsibilities. As in
the case for research, the CIPA Director would have administrative respon-
sibility for the extension staff and the extension budget, but would not
have discretionary powers to change the agreed budget. Budget changes
would be subject to approval by the EED.
5.13     The Government has employed an international firm of consultants
with wide experience in the T and V system to advise on the establishment
of this form of extension in Peru. The firm would train staff in the T and
V methodology and assist in the introduction of the system to the 18 CIPAs
in Peru. Thirty man-years of consultant services have been included in the
project to support this establishment and training (para 4.15). The T and
V system would be complemented by other forms of extension applicable to
cooperative enterprises, but all systems would incorporate the principle of
programmed activities by technical staff with continuous review and
monitoring (para 4.20).
5.14     Each sectorista would work in a defined sector under a supervisor
at the extension agency level; the agencies would, in turn, respond to
zonal offices where the supporting extension subject matter specialists
(SMS), an agricultural credit officer, the zonal extension coordinator and
his training assistant would be located; zonal offices would report to the
CIPA headquarters where the senior extension officer for the CIPA would be
located. The zonal extension officers servicing the cooperative enter-
prises would also report to the zonal extension coordinators, who are
effectively the operational managers for the extension program. A schem-
atic presentation of the organization of extension in one of the CIPAs in
the project area (Piura) is shown in Annex 9, Chart 4, and the numerical
relationship between farmers, sectors, agencies and zones for each of the
project CIPAs is presented in Annex 9, Table 12.
5.15     Over 80% of the extension staff required to initiate INIPA½s
extension program throughout Peru were transferred from the MA by the end
of 1981. For the five CIPAs receiving more intensive support under the
project, the staff additional to those in post on June 30, 1981 would be as
follows:
Incremental Extension Staff for the Five CIPAs
June  81        With Project        Increment
Professionals            126                206                80
Technicians              220                382               162
Clerical and Support    47                   81                34
By April 1982, INIPA had substantially increased staff in the five CIPAs in
anticipation of the commencement of the project and training in the T and V
methodology was well advanced.



- 35 -
Training
5.16     There would be intensive and continuous training of front líne
extension staff (sectoristas and cooperative extension officers) through
the regular sessions at zonal level (paras 4.17 and 4.18).   The extension
SMS who teach in these training sessions would be kept up to date by formal
and informal contact with research staff and by in-service training
programs and short courses. This training of professionals within the
extension service would be coordinated through the Director of Technical
Communication with the collaboration of RED and EED. The internationally
recruited co-leaders of the research programs would ensure that the tech-
nical content in training sessions is appropriate to the circumstances
existing ín Peruvian agriculture.
5.17     A Training Selection Committee would be established to select
candidates for higher studies (M.Sc and Ph.D) and external courses and
visits and to select appropriate institutions for this training. The
ínstitutions selected for external training would cover a wide range of
reputable schools in relevant scientific disciplines. The Ph.D. level
training would be restrieted to the fields of agricultural research and
biometrics. The Committee would consist of RED, EED, Directors of
Technical Communication and Planning, and the Adviser to the Head of
INIPA. Assurances were obtained that the annual program of scholarships
to be funded under the project would be approved by the Bank. The
Department of Technical Communication would be responsible for all travel
and other arrangements for scholarships (internal and external) including a
system for routine monitoring of student performance. It would also design
and implement a suitable contract system for professional training to
ensure that staff receiving training remain in INIPA-s employment for a
period of about five years or otherwise repay part of the training costs on
an agreed schedule.
5.18     Administrative/management training courses (including research
management) would be organized through the Director of Technical
Communication. Assurances were obtained that any contracts with outside
institutions in this field would be subject to annual approval by the
Bank. Management of the library/documentation service would also be under
this department. The library services would not only respond to requests
for reference material, but would also provide an abstracting/reprint
service to INIPA staff to keep them well informed on current scientific
literature. With the addition of five professionals (para 4.27) and
supporting staff included under the project, the Technical Communications
Department would be adequately staffed to carry out its funetions.
Monítoring and Evaluation
5.19     General.  Both the research and extension functions being devel-
oped under the project would be monitored and evaluated in formal systems
designed to assist INIPA management in policy and operational decision
making. The measurement of impact directly resulting from research and/or



- 36 -
extension programs is difficult, as the ultimate effectiveness of such pro-
grams is also dependent upon other interacting factors. Amongst these, the
availability and timely supply of production inputs (e.g. seed, fertilizer,
agrochemicals, animal feeds), suitable production credit, price of inputs
relative to product prices and adequate marketing arrangements are
important. However, the procedures to be adopted in evaluating impact draw
on successful experiences from other developing countries. A monitoring
and evaluation unit (MEU) would be established in the Department of Plan-
ning; this unit would be directly involved in monitoring and impact
studies, and would coordinate all monitoring activities of INIPA.
5.20     Research.  In the case of research, although results are general-
ly expressed in terms of measured biological gains, it is necessary to
determine relevance of these results in specífic production systems and the
rate of adoption of the research-based technology by farmers to assess real
impact. Data of this type accrue slowly, and the most reliable form of
qualitative assessment must be sought to measure intermediate progress. A
system which has been adopted with relative success in a number of devel-
oped and developing countries is regular review of specific programs by an
interdisciplinary peer group from within the institution, combined with
periodic review by a group of research workers from outside the institu-
tion; this approach would be adopted in evaluating research in the project
(Annex 6). The International Service for National Agricultural Research
(ISNAR), which is a CGIAR institution designed to assist countries in
strengthening research systems, has expressed its interest in participating
ín the external review process. The combined expertise of the professio-
nals in the review groups would enable judgments on the relevance of
research to the concerned production systems. The review process would
entail clear definition of problems affecting major production systems,
analysis of factors contributing to problems and assessment of the content
and quality of research relative to solving important problems and cons-
traints.
5.21     Extension.  Monitoring and evaluation of the extension program
must not only measure the impact of the services in agricultural production
and farmer welfare, but also monitor the build-up and the progress of the
extension institution itself. The consultants employed by INIPA to provide
guidance and training in implementing the T and V systems would initiate a
recording/monitoring scheme in the regular reporting procedures of the sys-
tem (e.g. areas covered by the service, number and percentage of producers
covered as contact farmers, partícipation of surrounding farmers in visits
by extension staff, figures indicating failure of staff to execute program-
med visits and reasons for same, progress in training sessions and avalla-
bility of specialist staff for training). The T and V consultants would
also institute a reporting procedure to measure progress in the extension
service to cooperative enterprises.
5.22     In addition to this form of monitoring through reporting, the MEU,
which is outside the Extension Department, would provide an objective
measure of progress and impact of the T and V system. The MEU would also
be charged with evaluating the impact of the extension service on



- 37 -
cooperative enterprises. A consultancy would be financed under the Bank
loan to design and initiate methodology and periodically supervise the
system of operations of the MEU with respect to evaluation of the extension
program; this responsibility would include design of appropriate systems of
collation and analysis of data.  The consultant would be guided in his
approach to evaluating the T and V program by the principles enunciated in
World Bank Working Paper No. 272, "A System of Monitoring and Evaluating
Agricultural Extension Projects". This would involve stratified sampling
of the farmer population in preharvest interviews (contact farmers only)
and in post-harvest yield surveys (all farmers in the area).
5.23     Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU).  The overall arrangement for
monitoring and evaluating research and extension and the key role of the
MEU are indicated in Annex 6, Chart 1. In addition to its major role in
coordination of research monitoring and in evaluation of extension, the MEU
would undertake studies on specific issues which relate to further
understanding of the process of adoption of innovations and packages
developed and promoted by the research and extension services (e.g. through
community/village survey and study of cooperative management systems). MEU
would be staffed by at least five professionals covering agronomie, econ-
omic, sociological and statistical orientations at the national level. Two
field surveyors of less than university level training would be posted at
each CIPA 4/, and these would be supervised by four monitoring specialists
(one for each of the four regions) who would coordinate and control the
field surveys carried out by the monitoring and evaluation field staff
under the direction of the central office. The staff of the central unit
would participate in the special studies programs.  Assurance was obtained
at negotiations that monitoring and evaluation would be carried out as
specified in this and preceding paragraphs and in Annex 6, and that the MEU
would be staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1982.
Project Reporting
5.24      INIPA would prepare and send reports on project progress to the
Bank at six monthly intervals within three months of the completion of each
semester. The reports would cover all major components of the project and
be in sufficient detail to be useful for INIPA management. The PMU would
design a suitable reporting format which would be sent to the Bank for
comment before December 31, 1982. Also no later than a year after final
Bank loan disbursement, a project completion report would be submitted to
the Bank. Assurance that these reporting requirements would be met were
obtained at negotiations.
4/   There are 18 CIPAs in Peru.



- 38 -
VI. YIELDS AND PRODUCTION IMPACT
Impact Analysis
6.01     Although the institution building aspects of the project at the
national level could be expected to have positive effects on agricultural
production throughout Peru, the most immediate impact can be expected in
the five northern CIPAs receiving intensive assistance (in facilities,
equipment, training and staffing) under the project. Within this area, a
significant increase in output is likely to occur on the small-scale farms
which to date have been largely neglected by Government technical serv-
ices. Greater use of production inputs (e.g. fertilizer) would have a
dramatic effect on yields (para 6.02). However, significant increases in
production can also be expected to come from making use of existing tech-
nical information on cultural techniques without additional heavy use of
inputs; these would include: (a) efficient cultural practices involving
improved land preparation, planting times, planting rates and depths, row
spacing, weed control, water management, pest and disease control, seed
selection and seed and crop storage; (b) more efficient use of fertilizer;
and (c) use of varieties most appropriate to particular production
environments and especially to the many micro climates to be found in the
Sierra.
6.02     With the exception of rice and cotton, and excluding sugar,
which will not receive attention under the project, the use of fertilizer
and agro-chemicals is low for the other main crops grown in the five CIPAs:
soft corn, hard corn, pulses, potatoes, wheat and cassava. Output of these
crops could be doubled by greater investment in these inputs, but as pro-
duction inputs of this type normally require a cash outlay, ready access to
suitable agricultural credit would be required to utilize this potential.
The inclusion of credit promotion officers (para 4.22) in the project
extension service should increase the use of credit and inputs. However,
the current usage of even short-term production credit by the majority of
small-scale farmers is known to be very low; hence, the impact analysis
assumes that increased use of inputs which require additional cash outlays
by small-scale farmers would be slower than the adoption of technology
without this requirement.
6.03     Potential yield estimates for the major crops in the Coastal and
Sierra Zones of the five northern CIPAs are given for two situations in the
following table: (a) without significant changes in use of production
inputs requiring a cash outlay; and (b) with efficient use of inputs and
available technology, as currently occurs on the better managed commercial
farms.



Average and Potential Yields of Main Crops in Coastal and Sierra
Zones of the Five Northern CiPAs
Coastal Zone                                                     Sierra Zone
…----------------…Yield (m tons/ha)>-------- --y---                ----------------Yield  (m tons/ha)----------------------
W4lth No                                                         With No
Present                    Changes i          Assuming          Present                     Changes io            Assuming
Area                        Present           Increased          Area                        Present              lncreased
Crop              (ha)         Present       Investments       Investments         _ha)           Present      lnvestments        Investments                                  Comments
yOy 1                            y2                              y0             Y 1                  2
Rice              72,000         5.3              6.3               7.5            í0,650           5.0           6.2                   7.2              Although present level of rice farming technoloqy
is high, there ¡s ample scope to increase yields by
20°/ i  major rice areas by  more effective use of fertillzers.
improved water control and adoption of new varieties,
Annual yields couíd be increased a further 20% by
land levelling, water distributlon, drainaga and
ncreased fertilizer us e,
Soft corn          9,600         2.2              2.5               3.5            51,000           2.0           2.4                   3.0              Yield increases of about 207/. can be attained particularly
Hard corn         22,000         2.6              2.9              4.0             80,000           1,0           1.2                   2.0             i  the Sierra by adoption of existi nq inforration on
plant density, row  spacing, better cultural praGtices to
retain  ooisture and timely weed control.  With further
investments in selected seeds, fertilizer and water har-
vesting structures, yields of both soft and hard corn couíd
be increased from 50 to TOO0/0.
Beaos              9,300         0.9              1.2               1.8            19,000           0.8           1.1                   1.5              Bean yields icreases of about 30%/ are attainable  in the
Coast and Sierra by closer attention to plant density
and use of simple trellaces. With investment in
fertilizer, pest control and suoplementary irriqation
(i< the Sierra), yields couíd be doubled.
Potatoes           9,100        14.0             15.5              18.0            34,000           6.6           8.0                  12.0              CíP has shomn thao  yields of potatoes can he
increased np 00 50% ln the Sierra mhere ylelds are pertl-
cularly low through better cultural practices, disease free
seed and improved farm  storage.  Wlth investments in ferti-
lizer and supplementary irrigation, yields cound be doubled,
Wheat             14,000         1.1               1.3              2.5            66,o0o           1.9           2.3                   3.0              Wheat yields in the Sierra can be increased by better
cultural practices and varieties which are generally
avai lable.
Cassava            3,200         7.6             12.0              20.0             9,100           6.2           9.0                  12.0              Yields of this hardy crop can be increased by 30-40%/ by
improving cultural practices,particularly weed control.
1/
Cotton            179,000        1.6              1.9               2.5                                                                                  The already high average yield for cotton in the project
area can be increased by about 15% through further refine-
ment of existing management practices, particularly through
improving timing and selection of fertílizer combinatlons,
1/ Dependent upon significant advances through research.                                                                                                 stricter attention to insect control and lmproving wacer
managemeet.



- 40 -
Adoption Rate and Incremental Production
6.04     Various assumptions can be made on the adoption rate of technical
packages. However, a conservative estimate for adoption in the five CIPAs
10 years after the commencement of the project would be:
(a) Individual farms (56% of cultivated land):
(i) 33% of those directly influenced by the T and V pro-
gram (Annex 9, Table 12) adopting the technical
package which does not require additional cash
inputs and achieving the yields (Y1) estimated in
the above table;
(ii) 40% of the above farms (i.e., 13% of the
T and V program farms) also adopting greater
use of cash requiring inputs and achieving
75% of the incremental yields (Y2 - Y1)
estimated in the above table:
(b) Cooperative-type farms (44% of cultivated land):
(i) 25% of these enterprises adopting technology
which requires the greater use of cash requiring
inputs and achieving 75% of the incremental
yields (Y2 - YO) estimated in the above table.
In the case of cotton, where further applied
research would be required to achieve the projected
yield, only 50% of the incremental yield in the
table is assumed.
On these assumptions, the incremental production due to the project on
the eight major agricultural crops in the area after 10 years would be
as follows:
Production Impact of Project After 10
Years in Five Northern CIPAs
Annual Incremental Production
Annual Production    -----       In Year 11------------
Crop         Without Project                          % of Without
(M tons)             (M tons)  Project Production
Rice               426,400                23,832             6
Soft Corn          123,120                 7,602             6
Hard Corn          137,200                12,942             9
Beans               23,300                 2,795            12
Potatoes           366,300                26,418             7
Wheat              133,200                11,424             9
Cassava             83,920                11,992            14
Cotton             272,000                14,663             5



- 41 -
This production impact does not include fruit and vegetables nor any bene-
fits from the project in livestock production (para 3.03). Both are likely
to be substantial but any quantification would be extremely unreliable.
The indirect benefits on the larger commercial farms have also been ignored
in this conservative estimate of impact.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Justification
7.01     The project investments would be directed at improving the perfor-
mance of the agricultural sector in Peru through the provision of tnproved
technical services. Particular emphasis would be given to the smaJlholder
farmers, who, as a group, have been largely neglected by Government serv-
ices in the past. The focus on the Sierra would not increase agricultural
production and improve the welfare and income of generally low-income farm
families in this zone, but would also reduce the excessive drift of the
rural population to the urban areas. The high rate of rural underemploy-
ment (para 1.03) would also be reduced through increased commercialization
of small-scale farms.
7.02      The emphasis on institution building under the project would
serve to establish INIPA as a soundly based organization capable of provid-
ing the agricultural research and extension services required in Peru.
This would have benefits in the implementation of all projects which have
an agricultural development component. The inclusion of well qualified and
experienced, internationally recruited research program co-leaders would
assist INIPA in developing sound research policies and strategies to meet
Peruvian requirements. The involvement of the CGIAR institutes would also
ensure the rapid transfer of international research experience to Peru.
The monitoring and evaluation component would enable INIPA management to
respond to identified problems and constraints in the sector and in the
policies and procedures within the institution itself.
Economic Rate of Return Estimate
7.03      A calculation of ex ante rate of return on the project invest-
ments in research and extension incurs many uncertainties. However, as a
conservative estimate of economic benefits, the impact on production of
specific crops as estimated for the five northern CIPAs in paragraphs 6.04
has been rated against total costs in the five CIPAs and at national
level. The production impact after 10 years has been translated into a
non-linear adoption curve from year 3 to 20. The initial benefit occurs in
year 3 and is 10% of that projected after 10 years; the benefit obtained
after 10 years is doubled by the end of year 20. To allow for the costs
associated with that portion of benefits which relate to use of additional
cash inputs such as fertilizer, 40% of the 0.75 (Y2 - Y1) benefit for



- 42 -
individual farms and 30% of the 0.75 (Y2 - YO) benefit for cooperatives
have been assumed as incremental costs. The Bank projections for
international prices in 1981 constant US dollars adjusted to farmgate
values are used for rice, hard corn and wheat as import substitution
products (US$402, US$250 and US$300 per m ton, respectively), and for
cotton as an export crop (US$891 per m ton). Local values were used for
beans, potatoes, soft corn and cassava. Foreign exchange costs and
benefits are not shadow priced. An economic rate of return of 20.5% is
obtained under these conservative assumptions in which all project costs
are assessed against partial crops production benefits in five CIPAs only
(Annex 9, Table 13). The beneficial foreign exchange effects included in
the economic analysis are significant: an annual net benefit of $13.5
million ín import substitution and $13 million in export foreign exchange
earnings in constant 1981 US dollars after 10 years. The costs of
preparing the irrigation rehabilitation project are excluded from the
economic analysis.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.04     Because of the relatively high internal rate of return of 20.5%
under the conservative method of debiting total costs against partial but
identifiable benefits, the real economic return should remain satisfactory
even with substantial increases in project costs. Increases in the total
INIPA investment and incremental operating costs of 20% would reduce the
estimated return to 17.5%. A reduction of 21% in benefits combined wíth a
20% increase in INIPA costs yields a return of 13%, which is the approx-
imate opportunity cost of capital in Peru.
Environmental Impact
7.05     The project would not have any deleterious effect on the environ-
ment in increasing agricultural production through improved services. On
the contrary, it would lead to improvement in the use of land and water
resources, would increase the adoption of soil conservation measures, and
would alleviate soil salinity problems in coastal areas through promotion
of appropriate irrigation practices. Chemicals to control pests and
diseases of crops and anímals would be used more fn accordance with recom-
mended procedures under the guidance of extension staff.
Project Risk
7.06     INIPA, as an institution, has a number of factors in its favor
in implementing this type of project. The functions of agricultural
research and extension are combined in one organization; INIPA½s leadership
is experienced; and the role of INIPA in providing efficíent agricultural
services is given high priority by Government. However, the project is
not wíthout risk, although most of the rísk relates to factors external to
INIPA. Government policies over the last decade have acted as a discentive
to agricultural investment and production, wíth resulting decline in agri-
cultural output (para 1.01). Stable Government policies favorable to agri-
culture will be essential if substantial improvement is to be obtained in
the sectoral performance. Policies and regulations concerning delivery of



- 43 -
production inputs, input/product price relationships, credit cost and
availability and marketing of agricultural produce will have a major bear-
ing on the results which can be expected from improved research and exten-
sion services.
7.07     Within INIPA itself, the most important variable affecting
project impact would be the effectiveness of the extension service. How-
ever, the initiation of the training contract with an expatriate firm in
late 1981 to introduce the T and V system of extension in Peru, the
emphasis given to monitoring of progress in extension programs, and the
commitment of Government to develop effective extension services reduce the
risk of unsatisfactory performance.
VIII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the 10 internationally recruited research scientists would be
appointed before April 30, 1983 under terms and conditions
agreed with the Bank (para 4.08);
(b) a policy statement on the granting of salary increments to
INIPA staff which is acceptable to the Bank, and which
reflects the intentions to provide incentives for performance
and to attract and retain staff of high calibre, would be
submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1982 (para 4.14);
(c) no research stations or substations additional to those
included in the project would be established in the five
northern CIPAs without previous justification to the Bank
(para 4.14);
(d) INIPA would prepare a master plan for immediate and future
construction on each research station and substation in the
five northern CIPAs by August 31, 1983 (para 4.14);
(e) the Government would take all necessary action to ensure that
land required for construction of facilities under the project
is acquired so as not to impede the implementation schedule
(para 4.14);
(f) terms of reference for the study on agricultural credit would
be approved by the Bank; the credit study would be commenced
and a formal agreement between INIPA and BAP to hold regular
credit subcommittee meetings of CIPA levels would be obtained
within five months after the appointment of the credit
coordinator; the latter appointment would be made before
December 31, 1982 under terms and conditions agreed with the
Bank (para 4.22);



- 44 -
(g) all procurement would be carried out in accordance with Bank
guidelines and the provisions of paragraphs 4.31 - 4.33.
(h) audited INIPA and project accounts would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of close of each financial year (para
4.36);
(i) the EPSU would funetion in accordance with the descríption of
duties in paragraph 5.04 and Annex 7;
(j) all research contracts financed under the loan would be
subject to prior approval by the Bank (para 5.09);
(k) scholarships of one academic year or more to be funded from
the Bank loan would be subject to approval by the Bank
in annual programs (para 5.17);
(1) contracts with institutions for administrative training
courses would be subject to annual approval by the Bank (para
5.18);
(m) monitoring and evaluation would be carried out as specified in
paragraphs 5.19 to 5.23; and the MEU would be staffed in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1982; and
(n) INIPA would submit progress reports to the Bank in an approved
format at six monthly intervals, and would submit a project
completion report within one year after the final Bank loan
disbursement (para 5.24).
8.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) the Loan Agreement had been duly registered by Credito
Publico in Peru and satisfactory contractual arrangements had
been entered into between the Governnent (as Borrower) and
INIPA (as executing agent for most of the project) (para
5.01);
(b) a Project Manager acceptable to the Bank had been appointed
under terms and conditions agreed with the Bank (para 5.03);
(c) EPSU in the Planning Department would be staffed and
operating in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.04).
8.03      A condition of disbursement for expenditures incurred in
preparation of the third irrigation rehabilitation project would be that
the Government (as Borrower) and INAF (as executing agent) had entered into
satisfactory contractual arrangements (para 4.26);
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$40.6 million, of which US$600,000 is a capitalized
front-end fee.
April 12, 1982



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Relevance to Research and Extension Programs
to Peruvian Farming Systems
Introduction
1.       The agricultural research program in Peru is organized along
commodity lines, with each crop research program being geared to higher and
more efficient production. The agricultural extension program to indivi-
dual farmers through INIPA is to be carried out in the T and V system by
front line generalist staff (sectoristas) supported by subject matter
specialists (SMS) who would be responsible for providing sectoristas with
extension messages every two weeks. INIPA½s extension to agricultural
cooperative enterprises and to other forms of collective land ownership
would be through specific extension agronomists at zone level, again
supported by the SMS in regular training sessions.  The technical advice
given to extension workers by the SMS would be designed to achieve more
efficient production of the commodities being dealt with, as in the case
for the commodity research programs.
2.       In undertaking research to provide the basis for improved agricul-
tural production, and in developing technical recommendations for applica-
tion on farms, the circumstances and resources of the subject farming
systems must be taken into account; this is essential if the commodity-
oriented agricultural research and technical recommendations are to be
relevant and so acceptable to the agricultural producers working in these
farming systems. Pertinent and interacting circumstances include the
resources of land, labor, capital, access to production inputs and suitable
credit, avallability of markets, prices of commodities relative to unit
production costs and costs of credit, production environment risks, and the
degree to which production exceeds"subsistence requirements. The relation-
ship between these factors becomes more important as the production system
moves from single crop production to a mixed multicrop, multipurpose pro-
duction system.
Checks on Relevance
3.       There are a number of built-in checks on the relevance of recom-
mendation in the T and V extension approach and in the monitoring systems
included in this project. The extension sectoristas are able to feed
back problems of adaptation of technical recommendations in the farming
systems with which they are dealing to the SMS during the regular fort-
nightly training sessions. The extension agency supervisors also play an
important role in this feedback function. The monitoring of the degree of
adoption of extension recommendations and the measurement of production
impact as carried out by the INIPA monitoring and evaluation unit (Annex 6)
would also give an indication of the relevance of recommendations to the



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
farming systems. In the case of the relatively large cooperative enter-
prises and large individual farms which are often subject to technical
assistance by private agricultural consultancy firms or groups, the orga-
nized liaison and cooperation between these private agents and the exten-
sion staff and commodity research personnel of INIPA would enable feedback
of constraints of adaptation of technology on larger enterprises to
research programmers.
Farm System Analysis
4.       In addition to these checks inherent in the various components
of INIPA's extension strategy, the project would also introduce an orga-
nized farm system analysis capacity to further ensure that applied research
programmers are fully aware of the circumstances of the farms to which the
improved technology is directed, and to ensure that inappropriate recommen-
dations are not given by extension staff. This capacity would be developed
using the methodology and technology already developed and successfully
used by a number of the international research institutions (CGIAR insti-
tutes). An internationally recruited specialist in farm system analysis
would be employed under the project for three years to train personnel and
initiate the farm system analysis techniques. The program would be carried
out by the agricultural economist appointed to each major research station
and the agronomists and technicians appointed to the off-station studies
unit on each station. Selected SMS from the extension service and the CIPA
agroeconomic unit could also be involved and trained in survey techníques.
The relationship of the farm system analysis program to other INIPA units
is indicated in      Chart 1.
5.       Due to the importance of this aspect of INIPA's activities,
10 staff of economic, agronomic or rural sociological training would
undergo an intensive farm system analysis course under theauspices of the
International Center for Potato Research (CIP) in the first half of 1982
before the World Bank loan becomes effective. This training would cover
both the theoretical and practical aspects of the subject and would be
undertaken at a cost of approximately US$ 2,500 per student. These 10
staff would form a core of trained people to work with the program
coordinator in applying the farm system analysis concept initially in the
project area and subsequently throughout Peru. The course would be funded
under the project preparation facility; a second course would be organized
in 1983 and also funded under the project.
January 7, 1982



AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
INIPA Organization of Farm System Analysis
NATIONAL                               CIPA
Exec. Director         Farming System/Off-            Farm System Studies using off-station
Research               Station Studies                investigation team supported.by selected                Research Program
Coordínation Unít             sMS22 and economists of the extension                     Orientation
service
Farm level trials applyíng research results          -
to farming systems.
^  rsH         |             | Extension                       1
ExtensínExtension
Exec. Director                                                                                                     Program __
Extension  _  I      l                                                              > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Program 
Extension                                                                       Agroeconomic Unit                  Orientation
_ L  Office    |                         - Cost of production/
price ailalysis
- Support for extension
SMS and T and V system
Director of                                                                                                     Guidance on
Plan in g              1                                                                                          Special Studies
y'                                                                            L> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by Monitoring
Planning    Monitoríng and                                                                                      and Evaluation
Office      Evaluation Unit                                                                                     Unio
GQ 0 z
Uni t~~~~r
w  
1/ SMS = Extension Subject Matter Specíalists.
Oct. 20), 1981



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Guidelines for Terms of Reference for Project Manager and
for Internationally Recruited Research Co-leaders
A. Research Co-leaders
Qualifications
1.       Candidates should have a Ph.D. or equivalent with several
years of experience in their specified field of research. Proven
leadership, management and organizational capabilities would be essen-
tial as would be fluency in English and Spanish.
Duties and Responsibilities
2.       All research co-leaders would be expected to become closely
ínvolved in their respective national research programs. They would
advise and assist the National Institute for Agricultural Research and
Extension (INIPA) research program coordinators in the day-to-day run-
ning of their programs. In those cases where INIPA has not selected
national program coordinators, or where the designated coordinators
are sent for further training, the co-leaders would assume temporary
responsibility for the programs.
3.       They would be expected to play an active role in in-service
training within their programs and to assist the program coordinators
in formulation of training programs and in selecting staff to partici-
pate in these in-service programs and in external courses.
4.        In the third year of his contract, each co-leader would, in
collaboration with the program coordinator, INIPA½s Executive Director
of Research, the Advisor to the Head of INIPA, the Project Manager and
the Planning Department draw up a detaíled medium/long-term research
plan including costs and phasing; this would form the basis for future
development of INIPA's research activities.
Location and Administrative Responsibility
5.       The research co-leaders would preferably be located at the
designated national center for each specific program. They would fall
under the general jurisdiction of the Executive Director of Research.
They would report to the Project Manager on general administrative



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
matters relating to their conditions of employment under the project.
Appointments would be for three years.
B. Project Manager
6.       A Project Manager would be appointed for a period of three
years to assist INIPA staff in planning and in the timely initiation
and coordination of the various activities under the project.
Qualifications
7.       Minimum qualifications would be a degree in Agricultural
Science or its equivalent with at least five years' operational and
administrative experience in a developing country (preferably the
Andean region) in agricultural/rural development activities. In addi-
tion to a sound technical background, experience in management of
agricultural development programs and fluency in Spanish and English
would be required.
Duties and Responsibilities
8.       The Project Manager would be attached to INIPA's Department
of Planning where he would be responsible, through the Director of
Planning, to the Head of INIPA.
9.       He would ensure that.
(a) all necessary actions are taken to ensure
implementation of the project in accordance
with the project phasing schedule;
(b) procurement of all equipment, vehicles, civil
works and services under the project is carried
out in accordance with the project phasing schedule;
(c) accounting procedures are adopted to allow appropriate
recording of expenditures for reimbursement from the
Bank loan and for the compilation of accurate project
accounts;
(d) timely processing of loan disbursement and reimbursement
requests from the relevant INIPA departments are made;
(e) annual and semi annual reports are prepared and other
information requested by the Bank is provided in
accordance with the Project Agreement;
(f) a monitoring and evaluation unit (MEU) is established
promptly under the Director of Planning and that
it performs its duties effectively;



_ 50 _
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
(g) consultants employed under the project perform
their duties in accordance with their terms of
reference;
(h) liaison is established with other bilateral/multi-
lateral agencies involved in agricultural develop-
ment, and with planners and implementers of Bank-
supported projects which have an agricultural
research/extension component;
(i) effective coordination is established between INIPA
and agricultural credit institutions and the training
of CIPA extension personnel in farm budgeting and
the use of credit is carried out; and
(J) all project-related activities as may be requested
by the Head of INIPA are implemented.
10.      The Project Manager would be expected to advise INIPA's
management on all policy matters related to the project meeting its
objectives.
January 7, 1982



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Terms of Reference and Qualifications for the Adviser
to the Head of National Institute for Agricultural
Research and Extension (INIPA)
Qualifications
1.       The Adviser would be a senior agricultural scientist of
international repute with the following qualifications:
(a) a university degree in agriculture or applied sciences
such as plant science, animal husbandry or agricultural
economics;
(b) a broad professional experience of at least 10 years in
agricultural research/extension and experience of
research and extension in a developing country (prefer-
ably in Latin America);
(c) several years' experience in national research/extension
planning, administration, management and evaluation, and
a sound working knowledge of university and inter-
national research systems;
(d)  the ability to work with high level administrative offi-
cials and with research scientists and extension
specialists;
(e) characteristics of creative and strong leadership, dis-
cretion, judgment and negotiating abilities which have
been demonstrated in the candidate's prior performance
record; and
(e) fluency in Spanish and English.
Terms of Reference
2.       The Adviser would be directly responsible to the Head of
INIPA. His main functíon would be to provide strong support to
developing INIPA's institutional capabilities to carry out its
mandate to develop a national research and extension service. He
would be required to pay particular attention to ensuring that funds



- 52. -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
and support from the Government budget and international and other
agencies are meshed into unified national programs for extension and
research and that suitable institutional and management mechanisms and
procedures to achieve this are adopted. The appraisal report des-
cribes organizational arrangements for research and extension which
are designed to assist INIPA to fulfill its mandate. The Adviser
would have the following responsibilities:
(a) strengthen within INIPA and at each CIPA under its
control the professional environment favorable to
expediting the conduct of research aimed at increasing
the efficiency of agricultural production;
(b) advise INIPA on the general administration policy of all
personnel and facilities located at headquarters and at
all CIPA research stations and extension facilities in
relation to improving the professional environment;
(c) advise on the duties, responsibilities, scope of activ-
ities, and operational procedures appropriate for the
headquarters offices of the Executive Directors for
Research and for Extension, and for INIPA's Planning
Department;
(d) provide advice and support for all national commodity
research programs and major scientific areas such as
soil and water .management and plant protection;
(e) advise INIPA on the duties, responsibilities, appro-
priate location and operating guidelines for all ínter-
nationally recruited scientists (co-leaders for major
commodities and disciplines) and ensure that each one is
provided with terms of reference and operational support
which enable him to become fully effective;
(f) advise INIPA on the location, administrative organiza-
tion and role of the regional service laboratories such
as routine soil analysis and animal disease diagnostie
facilities;
(g) ensure that the activities of the internationally
recruited research co-leaders are fully integrated in
INIPA programs, and that the co-leaders take responsi-
bility for defining future research program require-
ments. Future programs would embrace short-, medium-,
and long-term time frames, and take into account INIPA's
capabilities, facilities and funding. The medium- and
long-term plans would define the investments needed
(together with their proposed locations). All plans
would be realistic, cost effective and within Peru's
capacity to carry the required recurrent annual costs;



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
(h) work with INIPA staff to develop a long-range research
strategy;
(í) advise on the development of a system of selection of
key research and extension personnel for further
training;
(j) advise and assist in the selection of candidates for
professional scientific training, the appropriate type
of training, and the training Institutions to be
utilized;
(k) advise and assist INIPA in utilizing the CGIAR interna-
tional research system to the fullest extent for back-
stopping and supporting its research programs;
(1) advise and assist INIPA in establishing suitable
linkages between research and extension and to ensure
that specialized research personnel are available to
backstop the extension service;
(m) advise and assist INIPA in establishing support services
needed for research (library, computing, and such) and
their organization;
(n) advise and assist INIPA in establishing appropriate
mechanisms and procedures for liaising with external and
Peruvian universities and other agencies and institu-
tions; and
(o) advise and assist INIPA in establishing appropriate
agreements with universities and other agencies under
which INIPA can undertake contract research or contract
and fund research.
January 7, 1982



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Guidelines for Agriculture Credit Study
Background
1.       Over 60% of institutional credit to agriculture in Peru is
taken up by cooperative enterprises, and most of the remainder is
absorbed by individual commercial farmers with over 15 ha.  Less than
0.5% of credit is directed to small-scale farmers.  Over 80% of
lending is on a short-term basis, and the Peruvian Agricultural Bank
provides about 85% of all institutional credit to the agricultural
sector. The extent of use of non-institutional credit has not been
defined.
2.       The particularly low use of short-term credit by small-scale
farmers is paralleled by poor use of production inputs such as
fertilizer and pesticides. About 50% of the total production of
important crops such as wheat, barley, pulses, potatoes and maize are
derived from farms below 5 ha in size; greater use of production
inputs would greatly enhance farm and national production levels.
Increased use of long-term credit by all categories of farms would
improve irrigation infrastructure and enable efficient mechanization
and crop storage, all of which would have substantial production
benefits.
The Study
3.       The study would have the following components:
(a) Sample selection: The farming population would be
categorized according to likely response in use of
production inputs and credit.  For individual faris, this
would include classification by farm size in relation to
the degree to which the farm unit produces for the market
economy.  The sample would include purely subsistence
farmers and farms with various levels of market produc-
tion. The different types of cooperative enterprises
would also form specific subsamples. The sample would
not be restricted to the five northwestern CIPAs, but any
preferences would be given to this area.
(b) Survey: The study would be designed to ascertain for
each subsample:



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
(1) effective access to institutional and non-
institutional credit (short and long term); and
(ii) the reasons given by respondents for use or non-use
of credit;
The historical and current policies and procedures of
Peruvian credit institutions in agricultural lending and
the results of credit programs (uptake, arrears and costs
of credit delivery) would be compiled. As necessary,
other relevant factors such as mechanisms for delivery of
production inputs would be investigated.
(c) Analysis and Recommendations: Collected data would
be collated and analyzed to determine the real
constraints in the use of short- and long-term credit
for the various categories of farming enterprises.
Following this definition, recommendations would be
prepared for effective delivery mechanisms, promotion and
supervision of credit to each farm category. Particular
emphasis would be given to the small-scale farmer
situation.
Manpower
4.       The internationally recruited credit coordinator would be
responsible for designing, supervising and analyzing the credit
survey. The agricultural credit officers who would be appointed to
each zone and to each CIPA (approximately 55 in total) would be the
source of manpower to undertake the survey. If considered desirable
by INIPA management, staff from the agroeconomic unit in the
Department of Extension could also be involved in the survey. The
selected surveyors would be instructed by the credit coordinator in
the principles of the survey and in the survey technique.
Timing
5.       The study would be undertaken as the first task of the credit
coordinator upon appointment. The credit officers would be most
appropriately used in the survey at this stage as, until greater
knowledge of the financial/credit situation in the farming community
is known, their function on credit promotion would be very limited.
January 7, 1982



56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Preparation of Irrigation Rehabilitation III Project
(PLANREHATIC III) 1/
Summary
1.        Total cost of preparation exercise: 2/          US$3.689 million
Of which foreign exchange component:            US$2.118 million
Local currency component:                       US$1.571 million
2.        Proposed financing:
Government of Peru                              US$1.571 million
Bank - Project Preparation Facility
(under future project)                     0.500
Bank - under Agric. Res. and Ext. Project          1.618
Total                                   US$3.689 million
3.        Timetable for Bank's Funds
P.P.F.                Jan.-June  1982           US$0.500 million
Agric. Res. and Ext. July-Sept. 1982            US$0.350 million
Oct.-Dec.  1982          US$0.400 million
Jan.- June 1983          US$0.468 million
July-Dec.  1983          US$0.400 million
Total                                   US$2.118 million
4.        Implementing Agency:
Direccion Ejecutiva del Proyecto Especial
Rehabilitacion de Tierras Costeras (DEPEREHATIC)
Above agency reports to the Chief of INAF - Instituto
Nacional de Ampliacion de la Frontera Agricola within the
Ministry of Agriculture.
Scope of Project
5.        The project would increase agricultural productivity and
production by rehabilitation of lands affected by salinity and high
1/   See Project File for details of studies and equipment.
2/   Including contingencies.



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
groundwater tables. The area to be studied within the preparation
stage covers eight valleys along the Peruvian coastal belt, north of
Lima.  The net agricultural area is 108,000 ha, of which about 31,000
ha are severely affected by salinity and high groundwater tables.   The
project would include:  (a) construction and/or rehabilitation of main
irrigation and drainage infrastructure; (b) secondary and tertiary
irrigation and drainage systems; (c) land levelling, leaching of solls,
and other on-farm development works; (d) service centers; (e) technical
assistance in soil and water management; and (f) equipment for oper-
ation and maintenance.
Project Preparation
6.        The project preparation exercise would take two years
(November 1981 to November 1983). A pre-feasibility study is expected
to be finalized by the end of November 1982. A full feasibility study
would be finalized by November-December 1983 in such detail as needed
for appraisal.
7.        It may be necessary to reduce the project area in accordance
with the capacity of the implementing agency over a four to five year
period; the project may have to be sub-divided into two stages. This
would be studied during the pre-feasibility stage and recommendations
on proposed valleys or areas for the first stage of implementation
would be included in the pre-feasibility report.
8.        An important component of the preparation work is the topo-
graphical mapping, at scales of 1:25,000 and 1:10,000 which would
require aerial photography and the related photogrammetric interpreta-
tion to produce appropriate orthophoto maps. Almost 90% of this work
would be done by foreign firms.
9.        Foreign technical assistance or services of foreign consult-
ing firms would be needed both at the field level for basic studies and
planning and also in Lima for agro-economic studies and analyses.
Procurement
10.       The selection of a foreign firm to carry out the topograph-
ical mapping would be done in accordance with Bank guidelines (approx.
US$900,000). The same procedure would also apply to hiring foreign
consulting engineering firms (approx. US$950,000). Vehicles and tech-
nical equipment would be procured under the same procedures as used in
the Agricultural Research and Extension Project (approx. US$180,000).



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
Cost Breakdown 3/
11.       Costs can be broken down as shown in the following table:
…--------- -US$      …
1982       1983         TOTAL
Equipment and Transportation                104,260        -        104,260
Technical Services:
Topographic survey 4/, Agroeconomic
and Engineering Studies, Soil
Analyses, Administrative Support       1,291,429    157,366   1,448,795
Expatriate Technical Assistance             345,417    421,184      766,601
Operating Costs:
Personnel                                 286,534    283,106      569,640
Vehicles, Office and House Rent,
Office Operations                         56,041      55,370      111,411
Subtotal                             2,083,681    917,026   3,000,707
Physical contingency                        208,368     91,702      300,070
Price contingency                          206,356    181,529       387,885
TOTAL COST                           2,498,405  1,190,257   3,688,662
PLANREHATIC III PPF                                               500,000
Agric. Res. and Ext. Project                                    3,188,662
3/   Base costs are June 30, 1981 US dollars; 10% physical contingency;
1.09 and 1.18 price contingency factors on base costs for 1981 and
1982, respectively.
4/   US$500,000 of the cost of this survey would be financed under a
separate project preparation facility (PPF) to be attached to the
PLANREHATIC III project.
January 7, 1982



- 59 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
National Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension (INIPA)
Monitoring and Evaluation of Research
and Extension Programs
Introduction
1.       INIPA was formed in January 1981 with duties which included
responsibility for operating an effective agricultural extension
service throughout Peru and for further developing the national agri-
cultural research service. INIPA is receiving financial and technical
assistance in research and extension from a number of sources, includ-
ing support under World Bank, USAID and Interamerican Development Bank
loans.
2.       In extension, INIPA has adopted a strategy of a nationwide
Training and Visit (T and V) system for small- and medium-sized pro-
ducers; extension to large size farms in various forms of cooperative
ownership would be through a programmed but less intensive service
which would be complemented by technical assistance from private agri-
cultural consultants. In research, INIPA has continued the policy of
its predecessor (INIA) in pursuing research along commodity and
discipline lines.
3.       As INIPA is a new institution with a very important national
task in improving agricultural production and producer welfare, it is
essential that its strategy and operations are designed to obtain
maximum benefit from the resources it has at its disposal. An effec-
tive monitoring and evaluation system for research and extension
activities would be introduced to provide INIPA management with timely
information on the progress and the impact of its programs in relation
to its objectives. A monitoring and evaluation unit (MEU) would be
established under the Director of Planning to ensure that this
function is formalized and coordinated with INIPA's executive activ-
ities (Chart 1).
Research
4.       Research by individual officers would be supervised by
commodity research coordinators and principal scientists at research
stations, assisted by the internationally recruited program



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
co-leaders. The research program would be subject to an annual peer
review within INIPA which would allow research leadership to maximize
the potential for internal constructive criticism of research
programs. In addition to analysis and monitoring of the content and
quality of research, the peer reviews could also be used to give some
guidance to research management in allocating financial and manpower
resources to competing programs. Individuals in the interdisciplinary
research group and representatives of extension from each administra-
tive distriet (CIPA) would rate each research project on the extent to
which it met specific objectives such as relevance to existing prob-
lems, urgeney of the problem to which the research is directed, natio-
nal program goals, costs relative to scale of potential impact, and
likelihood that research results would not be avaílable from else-
where. Relatively simple scoring models have been developed and adop-
ted by a number of university and research institutions. In addition
to the peer review, the INIPA research programs would be subject to an
external review by a selected team of scíentists at two-year inter-
vals. The International Service for National Agricultural Research
(ISNAR), which is an international research institution providing
assistance in strengthening national agricultural research systems,
would partícipate in the external review (concentrating on organiza-
tional aspects) and would also undertake an initial review (six man-
weeks) of INIPA's research/extension organization and advise INIPA on
arrangements for internal peer revíew. MEU would coordinate and par-
ticipate in all research revíew processes.
Extension
5.       The T and V system of extension is an innovation in Peru and
its adoption must be carefully monitored. The impact of the system on
production must also be continuously measured. The consultants
employed by INIPA to provide guidance and training in implementing the
T and V system would initiate a recording/monitoring scheme in the
regular reporting procedures of the extension service; this would
indicate the institutional progress of the system (e.g. areas covered
by the service, number and percentage of producers covered as contact
farmers, participation of surrounding farmers in visits by extension
staff, figures indicating faílure of staff to execute programmed
visits and reasons for same, progress in training sessions and avail-
ability of specialist staff for training).  The T and V consultants
would also institute a reporting procedure to measure progress in the
extension service in extension zones to cooperative enterprises.
6.       In addition to this form of monitoring through reporting, the
MEU (which is outside the Extension Department) would undertake
objectíve measurements of progress and impact of the T and V system.
MEU would also be charged with evaluating the impact of the extension
service on cooperative enterprises. The overall arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation of research and extension and the key role
of the MEU are indicated in the attached chart. A consultancy would



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
be financed under the World Bank to design, initiate and periodically
supervise the extension monitoring functions of MEU.
Task of Extension Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant
7.       The consultant would be experienced in monitoring and eval-
uating agriculture extension systems in developing countries and would
be other than the consultancy firm employed by INIPA to organize and
implement the T and V system of extension.  The consultant would be
responsible for developing the monitoring and evaluation system for
the extension service in those aspects of monitoring and evaluation
which are the responsibility of MEU. The consultant would be guíded
in this approach by the principles enunciated in World Bank Working
Paper No. 272, "A System for Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural
Extension Projects," December 1977.
8.       Specific duties would include organizing the monitoring and
evaluation survey systems, training staff, and organizing a system of
timely data collation and analysis.
9.       The MEU would be staffed by five professionals with agro-
economic/sociological orientations at the national level. Two field
surveyors of less than university level training would be posted at
each CIPA 1/, and these would be supervised by four monitoring specia-
lists who would coordinate and control the field surveys carried out
by the MEU field staff in the four INIPA regions under the direction
of the central unit. The staff of the central unit would themselves
participate in the special studies programs.
10.      The consultancy is expected to be an initial contract consis-
ting of four man-months in each of years 1, 2 and 3 of the project. A
follow-on contract in years 4 and 5 may also be negotiated, depending
on performance of the consultants in the initial contract.
January 7, 1982
1/   Peru has 18 CIPAs.



ANNEX 6
- 62 -                   Chart  1
Page  4of  4
INIPA - MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF RESEARCH AND EXTENSION FUNCTIONS
Director
Exec. Dir.                      Exec. Dir.   ¡    Planning
Research                         Extension          Plamming
_ard Prograrming
RESEARCH                        EXTENSION                  .aaProject
PROGRAM                          PROGRAM                              Management
nontinuous internal                  1
Annual ínternal           r ecording/monitoring   ,
peer review            of all extension
ctivities
_rreharvest survev on            i
|stratifíed randomI 
sample of contact
farmers in T and V
program
Post harvest survey
External scientific      .on stratified random
review (year 2 and       Isample of all farmersI
4)                        in T and V program
- -------------
iSpecial studíes
______, 1    _____________1,                         ''/
External
IScientifíc Grouj                      
Semi- annual
Project Reports
to World Bank
FARM  SYSTEM ANALYSIS !:
1/ See Annex 1.
January 7, 19b2



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
PERU
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Outline of Responsibilities of the Engineering Planning
Service Unit (EPSU) in the Department of Planning
1.       This unit would have a technical support function within
INIPA with responsibility for administration of civil works projects
including those supported by external donors. The EPSU would provide
counsel to INIPA on technical matters and reinforce INIPA's role as
the "client agency" in dealing with consultants from the private
sector; it would be the locus of overall project coordination and
liaison with the Bank in respect to civil works and building equipment
and furniture.
2.       The duties of the EPSU would include:
(a) assisting INIPA in the selection of professional
services for architecture and engineering and the like;
(b) preparing, with outside assistance if necessary, a
detailed architectural brief for each building in the
civil works program;
(c) reviewing and arranging for the approval of
architectural and engineering reports, plans,
specifications, equipment lists and other material by
INIPA and the Bank of the following stages:
(i) development of master plan and schematic design;
(ii) final design; and
(iii) working drawings and contract documents.
(d) administering bidding procedures and award of contract,
including:
(i) prequalification of contractors;
(íi) announcement and calling for bids;



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
(iíi) adjudication; and
(iv) award of contract;
(e) providing resident clerks of works for construction
supervision;
(f) reviewing cash flow projections prepared by architects
and ensuring avaílability of funds;
(g) overseeing project progress and making monthly progress
reports to INIPA and semi-annual reports to the Bank;
(h) approving contractors' bills for payment by INIPA;
(1) preparing the pre-ordering schedule for equipment and
furniture for buildings and submitting these to the
procurement unit in the Department of Administration for
processing;
(j)  preparing a commissioning program for each building and
at completion of construction undertake joint final
inspection (with the executive architects) and
acceptance of building from contractors; and
(k) establishing a building maintenauLce inspectorate which
would:
(i) set out guidelines and standards for routine
maintenance of INIPA's buildings; and
(ií) undertake periodic inspection of maintenance works
carried out by local personnel.
January 7, 1982



- 65 -
ANNEX 8
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Outline of Duties of the Executive Architects
1.  Establish and manage a work program, utilizing appropriate
programming tools such as network analysis, for all activities
during the design, construction and commissioning phases of
projects.
2.  Prepare development master plans, sketch designs, and final design
drawings, specif-icatLons and bidding documents.
3.  Prepare contract documents, including working drawings,
specifications and bidding documents.
4.  Coordinate work of structural engineers, mechanical service
engineers and quantity surveyors.
5.  Prepare cost estimates and cash flow projections and update these
as projects proceed to indicate funding requirements throughout
the construction period.
6.  Assist INIPA as required in its responsibilities of administering
bidding procedures and award construction contracts.
7.  Supervise construction, reinforced by resident clerk of works
provided by INIPA.
8.  Undertake joint final inspection and acceptance (with EPSU) of
completed buildings.
9.  Prepare final accounts.
January 7, 1982



- 66 -                                                           ANNEX 9
PERU                                                              Table 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Summáry of Support for Research - Flve CIPAN  1/
(Millions S/.)  2/
Year 1             Year 2              Year 3              Year 4             Year 5              Total
ITEM                                  No.       Cost      No.      Cost       No.      Cost       No.      Cost      No.       Cost      No.      Cost
1.    CIVIL WORK
a.  Construct¡on and Site
Development  (m2)                   6,383       639     6,383       639                  -         _        _          _        _       2,766    1,278
h.  Research Far- Developrent              -          52        -         53        -        -          -        -         -         -         -         los
c.  Land Purchase                         252         92       103        69        -        -          -        -         -         -         355       161
d.  Technical Fees                         -         146.93     -         -         -        -          -        -         -         -         -         146.9'
Subtotal                                  929.93              761.00                                                                        1,690.93
II.   EQUIPMENT AND T  ANSPORTATION
a.  Scentif¡c Equipment                    -          71.35     -        173.10     -        75.22      -         4.20     -         --                 323.87
b.  Research Farm  EquiPmert                -        486.34    -        656.07      -       100.80      -        -         -         -         -      1.243.21
c.  Office Equ¡pmet                         -        109.07     -         54.86     -        11,88      _         4.08     -          4.07     -        183.96
d.  Infor,ation and Docurentation
Equipment                              -         58.26      -        82.67     -         26.85     -         4.20      -           -      _         t71.98
e.  Vehicles (including motorcycles)  57             244.50      8        32.5      1         5.00      3        10.50     3          9.00     72       101.50
Subtotal                                  969.52              999.20              219.75               22.98              13.07             2,224.52
I. TECHNICAL SERVICES
a.  Overseas Fellowships M.Sc/h.e3MY)(5               26.50      16       78.80    18        77.40    12         55.20     8         32.80     59       270.70
b.  Local Fellowships M.Sc  (MY)             9         4.50     17         8.50    24        12.00   26          13.00    10          5.00     86        43.00
c.  Short-terr  Training    ¡MM)            13        45.50     19        66.50    13        45.50    14         49.00    14        49.00      71       255.50
d.  Scientific Meetings   (MM)              9         13.50     16       24.00    13         19,50    15         22.50    14        21.00      67      100.50
e.  L¡brary  (subscr¡ptions)              272          6.00   311          6.73  311          6.73  311           6.73  310           6.71  1,515       32.90
f.  Overseas short ter,, visits (MM)   10             15.00     11        16.50    10        15.00    11         16.50   lo         15.00      52       78.00
R. Research Consultants (MM)                 5         5.00      2         2.00    5          5.00      2         2.00     5          5.00     19       19,0o
Subtotal                                   116.00             203.03              181.13             164,93              134.51              799.60
IV.   INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
a.  Salaries and Wages
(1)  Professional Staff                         174.41              126.52             122.90              122.79              122.84             669.46
(2)  Techrical Staff                            126.11               87.73              85.14               85.00               85.06             469.04
(3)  Clerical and Farm  Staff                   133.70               93.68              92.58               92.71               92,76             50S543
14)  Laborers                                   200.03              136.78             134,30              134,53              134.58             740.22
15)  Staff Benefits                              43.75               25.20              22.77               22.97               22.99             137.68
Subtota1                                  678.00              469.91              457.69             458.00              458.23           2,521.83
b.  Other Operational Cost  3/
(1)  Operation and Maintenance
Veh¡cles                                    35.85              26.77               26.40              28.40               29.82              147.24
(2)  Equipment Operation and
Maintenance                                60.12               56.42               58.00              58.89               58.93              292.36
(3)  Office Materials ard Suppl¡es               77.31               53.15              51.18               51.13               51.16             283.93
(4)  BuTldind   Ma¡ntenance                       -                  11.71              30.00               38.73               38.75             ll9.19
(5)  Research Material                          185.25              114.47             108.04              107.95              108.00             621.71
(6)  Travel and Perdiem                          34.92               25.32              24.57               24.55               24.56             133.92
(7)  Machine Rental                              19.90               12.00               5.24                5.37                5.37              47.88
Subtotal                                  413.35              299.84              303.43             315.02              316.59           1,648.2R
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                   3,106.5             2,732.98           1 ,162.00             960.93             922.40            8.885.11
/  CIPA4 diURA, CHICLAYO, TRUJILLO, HUARAZ aed CAJAMARCA.  See Tables 1 to 293 Project File Preparation Report
Volume 3 for calcalation of al ] costs except civil orks.  The latter are 1nclded ¡n Project File Civil
Works  Annex.              Land purchase in the preparation report has been reduced by 50W  due to increased
procurement through Governnent transfer.
2/  S/. as at  JUIy, 19ol.
3/ Incremental agricultura' costs are reduced Ny the amount of incremental research station income generated
ev Droiect investment.
November 16, 1981



- 67 -
ANNEX 9
PERU                                                               Table 2
AGRICULTURE RESEAICH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Summary of Sapport for Extenslon - Five CIPAs  1/
(Mil] ions S/.) 2/
Year 1               Year 2                YTar 3                 Year 4                Year 5               Total
ITEM                                     No.       Cost        No.        Cost       No.        Cost       N..        Cost        N.        Cost       No.      Cost
I,    CIVIL WORK
a. Construction and S¡to
De-elop-ent (e?)                      5,494        715.43    976         126.25       -                                                            6,470       841.68
b.  Land Parchase                              0.844   54.47        -           -         -          -          -          -          -          -        844        54.47
e.  Technical Feos                                      64.57       -           -         -          -           -                                                   64.57
Subtotal                                 834.47                 126.25                                                                                960. 72
II.   EQUIPMENT ANO TRANSPORTATION
a.  Scietific Eqip-ent                                                                                    -                                                           -
h.  Research Far- Equipment                                                                               -                                                           -
c.  Office Eqcipeeet                          -        156.04       _           4.56      -          -          -        -      -                - _                160.60
d.  leformat ion and Docameetat ion
Eqoiceent                                -         264.67      -          12.51       -         -           -         -          -          -         -        277.18
e.  Vehicles (ineclding  otorcvcleol    618          1,050.04       1           7.50     21         25.10       5        18.60       -                    645    1,101.24
Subtotal                               I,470.75                  24.57                25.10                18.60                                    1,539.02
III.  TECHN ICAL SERVICE
a.  Overseas Fellwships M.So.  'ej            --
o.  Local Fellowships M.Sc.   eM              -
c.  Short-term  Trainioq       'c1m)         107        30.72    113           30.72    109         30.72     120        30.72     112         10.72      559       153.60
d.  Scientific Meetinges       'M             -          -          -           -         -          -          -          -
e.  Librarv                                   _          2.53       _           2.53      -          2.53       -         2.53       -          2.53      _          12.65
f.  Coerseas Short Term  Visits  '.)-
o.  Research Coesultats  'o)                             -
h.   Ie-Service Trainies Proqram              10        23.40       lo         23.40     1O        23.40       1O       23.40        10       23.40       50        117.00
Subtotal                                  56.65                  56.65                s6.65               56.6s                  56.65               283.25
Il.    INCREMENTAL OPERATING COST
a. Salaries and Wagos
W11   Professional Staff                 -        253.68       -        253.68       -       253.68        -      253.68        -       253.68       -      1.268.40
(2)  Technical Staff                     -        294,41                2 294.41     _       294.41        _      294.41        -       294.41       -      1,472.05
(3)  Clerical and Faro Staff             -         52.83       -          52.83      -        52.83        -       52.83        -         52.83      -        264.15
(4)  Laborers                                  -                -              -                -                -
(5)  Staff benefits   3/                                                             -                          -                           -
Subtotal                                 600.92                600.92               600.92               600.92                600.92              *.004.60
b. Other Operational Cost
(1)  Operation and Maintenaece
Vehicles                           -         223.76       -        223.76       -       224.48        -     228.27         -       228.27               1,128.54
(2)  Equipment Operation asd
Maintenance                        -           3.00       -          3.00       -         3.00        -        3.00        -         3.20 0                15.00
(3)  Office Materials aed Supplies  -              74.02       _          74.02      -        74.02        -       74.02        -         74.02      -         370.10
(4)   iuilding Maieteeaece               -          10.70      -          10.84      -        14.65        -       18.61        -        18.61                 . 73.41
(5)  Research Matea-al                                                          -               -               -                -              -                 -
(6)  Tracel and Perdies                  -        216.27       -        216.27       -       216.27        -      216.27        -       216.27       -       1,081.35
(7)  Machienery Reetul                         -                -              -                -                -               -
(8)  Offices Rent                        _         65.47       -          65.47      -        45.49        -       45.49        -        45.49       -          267.41
(9)  Other Mate,rais                     -          17.40      -          17.40                170         -        17.40       -         17.40      -           87.00
Subtotal                                 610.62                610.76               595.31               603.06                603.06               3,022.81
0OTAL INVESTMENT COST                     3,573.41               1,419.15             1.277.98            1.279.23               1.260.63               8.810.40
1!  C1PAs, PIJRA, CHICLAYO, TRUJILLO, HUARAZ ANO CAJAMARCA.  See Tables 295 to 374 Project File Preparatice  Report
Vol-e 4 for calculation of al] costs except ciil works.  The latter are included  in Project File Cioil Works
2/ 5/. as at Jdoe 1981.
3/ Staff benofits are snloded in salaries and wages in thio table.
Noveober 19, 1981



- 68 -
ANNEX 9
PERU                                                         Table 3
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ANO EXTENSION PROJECT
CIPA Headquarters   1
(Mill lons S/.)
Year I                Year 2                Year 3               Year 4              Oear 5                 Total
ITEM                                         No.       Cost        No.      Cost        No.       Cost       No.       Cost       No.      Cost       No.       Cost
1.    CIVIL WORK
a. Construction and Site
Development                           2,960       322        1,650      180                                                                    4,610       502
b.  Research Farm  Developrent                 -        -             -       -                                              -
c.  Technical Fees                             -        50.65         -       -          -           -         -        -         -          -        -          50.65
Subt.atcl                                372.65                180                                                                                552.65
11.   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION
a.  Scientific Equipnent                       -        -             -       -          -           -         -        -         -          -        -          -
b.  Research Farm  Eqaipment                   -        -             -       -          -           -         -        -         -          -        -          -
c.  Office Equipment  31                      125       39.5          -       -          -           _                                                125        39.5
d.   Infor-ation and Oocumentat¡on                                                      -         -                                                   -          -
Equ i pment
e.  Vehicles:  Pickup  4/                      l0       35.0          -       -          -           -         -        -         -          -         10        35.0
Subtotel- -                                4.-                                                                                          -          74.5
III.  TECHN ICAL SERV ICES
a.  Overseas Fellowships MSc (MY)              -        -                                                          -
b.  Local Fellowships M.Sc.  (MY)              -        -
c.  Short-term  Training    (MY)               -        -
d.  Scient¡fic Meetings   (MM)                -         -
e.  Library  (subscrlptions)                   -        -
Subt>tal                                                                       -         -                                                         -
IV.    INCREMENTAL OPERATING COST
a.  Salaries  57
(1)  Professional Staff                  -         13.2                  13.2                   13,2     -         13.2      -          1.2      -          66
(2)  Technical Staff                                                     -         -               -               -              -                         -
(3)  Clerical Staff                      -         12.6         -        12.6       -           12.6     -         12.6      -          12.6                63
(4)  Laborers                                                  -         -               -               -              -              -                    -
(5)  Staff Benefits                      -          6.o         -         6.0       -            6.0     -          6.0      -           6.0     -          10
Suh-Total                       -         31.8         _        31.8      -           31.8      -         31.8                318       -        159
b.  Other Operational Costs
(1)  Operational and Maintenance    -              10.4         -        10.4       -           10.4     -         10,4      -          10.4     -          52
Vehicles 6/
(2)  Equipment Operational and                                      -         -               -               -              -              -               -
Ma ¡ntenance
(3)  Office Material and                 -         32.5                  3 32.5                 3 32.5            332.5      -         12.5      -         162.5
Suppl ies  11
(4)  BuilId¡g MaIntenance                -         -            -        -         -             7.0     -         14.0     -           14.0     -          35
(5)  Research Material                                              -         -               -               -              -              -               -
(6)  Travel and Perdem                   -         15.8         -        15.8       -           15.8                5.8     -          15.8      -          79
(7)  Office Rectal                       -         36           -        36         -           -        -         _                   -         -          72
Subtotíl                                  94.7                 94.7                   94.7                94.7                94.7               471.5
TOTAL  INVESTMENT COST              -       573.65                306.5                  126.5              126.5              126.5               1,259.65
1/  Total of fice headquarters provided  For CIPAS; PIURA, CHICLAYO, CAJAMARCA, TRUJILLO y HUARAZ.  S/. as of June 1981.
2/  See Project File C¡v¡l Works  Annex (all land procuremten   is through Government trdnsfer).
3/  See Table 378 Office Equipmeet Investments - Project File Preparation  Report Volume 4.
4/  See Table 379 Vehicles Investments - Project File Preparation  Report Volane 4.
5/  See Table 380-381  Salaries and Wages and Staff¡ng Schedule - Project File Preparat¡on Report Vol---e 4.
6/  See Table 382 Operation and Maintecacce Vehicies - Project File Preparation  Report Volume 4.
7/  See Table 383 Office Material and Supplies - Project File Preparation Report Volume 4.
November 13, 1981



- 69 -
ANNEX 9
PERO                                                               Table 4
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
INIPA:   Central Planning OffIce
(Mil ions S/.)
Year 1                Year 2                Year 3                Year 4                Ynar 5                Total
ITEM                           No.       Cost        No.       Cost        No.       Cost        No.       Cost       No.        Cost       No.,      Cost
1.    CIVIL WORK
a.  Const-rction and Site
Development                           _           _         _          _          -                                                                            -
b.  Research Farn Development
c.  Techni.cal  F-es
Subtoral                                                                  -
II.   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION
a.  Sci-etific Equipment
b.  Research Farm  Equipment
c.  office Equipment  1/                   -        35.86        -          -         -           -         -           -         -          -          -        15.86
d.  Infor-ation and Documentation          -         7.23        -          -         -           -         -         - _           _                   -         7.2i
Equippent  2/
e. Vehicles 3/
(1)  Pickup                          '3        10.50        -          -          -          -         -           -         -           -         3        10.50
(2)  Motorcycle                      lo         7.00              -         -          -               -           -         -           -        10         7.00
(3)  Sedan                           15        75.00        -          -         -           -         -           _         _          -         15        75.00
(4)  SurSrcban                        1         9.50        -          -                                           -1                                        9.50
Sobtotul                              145.09                                                                                                       [45.09
III.   TECHNICAL SERVICES
a.   Overseas Fellowships M.Sc (My)   2            17.22       4         28.29       2         11.07       -          -          -          -         8         56.58
b.  Local Fellowships M.Sc (MY)           3         1.50       6          3.00       4          2.00       2         1.00        1         0.50      16          8.00
c.  Short-Ter- Training   (mm)            3        10.50        3        10.50       2          7.00       2         7.00        1         i.50       11        18.50
d.  Scientific Meetineq   (MM)            3         4,50       3          4.50       3         4.50        3         4.50        3         4.50      15         22,50
e.  Library  (subscriptions)              -          -         -           -         -           -         -          -          -          -         -           -
f.  0Oerseas Short-term Visits
g.  Research Consultants
h.  Inservices Traininq Program
i.  Specialist and Co.s.l tant
Services  4/                         -    1,448.40         -    1,493.00         -       865.00                189.15                1 i.OO       -    4,008.50
Contract Research                    -       102.50        -       102.50        -       102.50       -        102.50       -       102.50        -
S,.btr,l]                           1 ,584.62            1.641.79                992.07                304,15                124.00             46.6o
IV,     INCREMENTAL OPERATIONAL COST
a.  Salaries and Wages  5/
(I)  Professional Staff             12        25.20       12        25.20      12         25.20      12        25.20       12        25.20      48        126.00
(2)  Technical Staff                11        12.80       11        12.80      11         12.80      11        12.80       11        12.80      55         64.00
(3)  Clerical                        6         7.86        6         7.86       6          7.86       6         7.86        6         7.86       10        19.iO
(4)  Laborers
(5)  Staff Benefts                  59        22.20      59         22.20      59         22.20      59        22.20       59        22.20      59         22.20
Subtotal                               68.06                 68.06                68.06                 68.06                 68.06                s40.Ro
b. Other Operational Costs
(1)  Operatioo and Maintneance
Vehidles  6/                    -        12.90       -        12.90        -        12.90        0        12.90       -         12.90       -        12.90
(2)  Equipment Operatioe and
Maintenance (10- -                                                   -               -          -          -                          -                -
(3)  Office Materlais and
Supplies  7/                    -        10.93       -        10.93        -        10.93                 10.93       -         10.91       -        54.65
(4)  Building Mainteasnce (57)             -               -               -                -                          -
(5)  Research Material
(6)  Travel and Perdien              -        28.00        -        28.00       -        28.00        -        28.00        -        28.00       -        140.00
Subtotal                               51.83                51.83                 51.83                 51.83                 51.83               259.15
TOTAL OPERATING COST                    119.89               119.89                119.89                119.89               119.89                599.65
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                1,849.55              1,761.6               1,111.96                424.04               243.89              5,391.07
1/  See Table 391 Office Equipment Ino estments and 399 A (M and E)  of Project File Preparatio  Report Vol. IV.
2/  Sen Table 392 Information and Documentat¡on Equipment Ineestments.
3/  See Tabln 393 Vehicle Ionvstments and 399A.
4/  Sen Table 395 Specialists and Consultant Sernice  and Table 5 in this Annex.
_/  See Table 396 and 397 Salaries and wages and staffing  schedule and 399A.
6/ Sen Table 398 OperatCon and naintenance vehicles and 399A and 393.
7/ See Table 399 Office Materials and Supplies and 399A.
Noveeber 19, 1981



» x D clo   *    1-         ;                 .3                          D                                                         0   DDOD      DO( 
O.> 9 3   C3>                  @                          0>0>0.JD m < °'D-0    0..g- ' .-   ;l                                    ¡3 3gZU I   
U 3 O 3  3    .3  0   <1> |3                                                            o  t X (   u .   n r.nc g m _        
.3  -0/  V>/zCD01  JD <                         cg>  3  _.31
U~ ~      ~ ~~...   3 3330<0    03-')C ;  r           mOoO      ' 1r   3-<. ID <                              W
N33 0 0                 D     l      0    ¡r         .0-0.3             D 01 .O   O    3                               00.3O
0.0       3-             r         >3-   O  n<    O 3O-..   (D-  30--<               O         00 3l0 0 0> '                     -e
O          D.3     <.- .0     j3.            1-         '.3   >b'0    --0 °   -330.3.0                                      00    . 
0.300.33 3- I            ~         .     O1 33.3-Q0<'.                             0           -»-   0309.0   33
31     _..                3.3       1                       X>3~- .     0   10 <.           D--C O-             >
01   -3>    o33.  3                                                 =0>-  D»330...   u3». - 3    >,0     0 9'0
0.3   00.  o3.  .fi                                    3.3         .00        . o0    00    3
U) ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    3          303n             30O ID3_ 1
O.0. C <D ID3 0ID 'b'.                                                    _0 ~.3
O ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ . = =.3   .3 3 0 0   .                                                      ,
,wc D                              3>    ¡33 3O9 <003..       .
- ~ ~~~~~~~~ = O3   30 I    J:<-    30-'» _                                       W
0>031 D3                                       -.0
013              0. 3> -ID j.                                                           ¡
_.         0!X
*3           0 ol                                                      O      l     }
o ~      ~      o -                          |0.                                                                                  .3 C1              =2=trsv|
0-~~                                                                                                                                                 ~~~ o0.oo10000  000  00
[.3,I13             ;   ,r      10<I1I                        O0 10.    O C O O OO                        0
co             -  I  o s        ~           ~<>-J.  o< >0          ooo           oooo
0 ~ ~~~ ~ ~    ~ .0 .0                                                                          .      .30           !°110>>>  <0- -            ,        I
.3                                                            -                                                                               r~~~~~~~~
-~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o  .
>0~~~~                           ~~~~ ~ 0.  - O00.9- 
;;;;  ~ -                 00_                                     0    0 0 0 0 0  
O   Ot |N0<O 40  _____    
O     ' 1 O ;;    O Nt-000-.:-i-                  0              .3    N N   '  >  . . N    Je.         ¡O
J°  -"  -\                                                        - N                                            >0       108O 0         l4»F 
oZ   o   ¡00            3< 0s  .       O    OOOOU        OO        O lo    ooo-   ooo 
o~~~~~~~h 0  00   0    00'10.<3                   31        -    .00010    39



PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation tUnit-
(Million S/.)
----Year 1----    ---Year 2----           --Year 3--          ---Year 4---        ---Year 5--   ----TOTAL-…--
No.        Cost    No.       Cost         No.   Cost         No.       Cost       No.    Cost   No.          Cost
A. CIVIL WORKS                                                                                       -                                                                    -
B.  EQUIPMENI AND TRANSPORTAT1ON
1. Office Equipment                                     -         3.96      -              -         -         -          -         -        -            -          3.96
2. Vehicles                                                                                                -                                              -
(a) Pickups                                         1         3.5        -        -           -       -          _          _        _        _        1          3.5
(b) Sedans                                          2        10.0        -        -           -       -          -          _        _         -      2          10.0
(c) Motorcycles                                    10         7.0        -        -           -       -          -          -        -        -      10           7.0
Subtotal                                             24.46                                                                                              24.46
C. TECHNICAL SERVICES                                                 -   -         -          -         -        -           -         -       _    _       _
D. INCREMENTAL OPERATIONAIL COST
3. Salaries and Wages
(a) Professional                                    6        13.8       6       13.8          6      13.8         6       13.8         6     13.8    -           69.0
(b) Technical                                      10        11.0      10       11.0         10      11.0        10       11.0        10     11.0    -           55.0
(c) Clerical                                        3         3.9       3         3.9         3       3.9         3        3.9         3       3.9    -          19.5
(d) Staff Benefits                                  -         6.7       -        6.7          -       6.7         -        6.7         -       6.7    -          33.5
2. Other Operational Costs
(a) Vehicle O & M                                   -         3.3       -         3.3         -       3.3         -        3.3         -       3.3    -          16.5
(b) Office Materíals                                -         1.5       -         1.5         -       1.5         -        1.5         -       1.5    -           7.5
(e) Travel and Per Diems                            -         8.0       -         8.0         -       8.0         -        8.0         -       8.0    -          40.0
TOTAL. OPERATING COSTS                                       48.20               48.20               48.20                48.20               48.20             241.00                 z
TOTAL INVESTMENT                                              72.66              48.20               48.20                48.20               48.20             265.46                 x
1/  See Table 399A in Project File Preparation Report Volume 4.
Decemb-r 16,19.81



- 72 -
PERU                                                               ANNEX 9
PERU                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 7
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Documentatlon and irrlning Canter
(Mil lioes S/.)
Year 1                 Year 2                 Year 3                 Year 4                Year 5                Total
ITEM                                 No.        Cost        No.       Cost         No.       Cost        No.        Cost        No,       Cost        No.        Cost
1.    CIVIL WORK  -
a. Construct ion and2 Site
Development   (e )                   1 ,009     122.17      1,009       122          -                                                                2,018       244.17
b.  Technical Fees                                    23.30         -          -                                                                              -         232.0
Subtotal               1,009       145.47      1,009       122                                                                           2,018       267.47
I1.   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION
a.  Scientific Equipent                      -         -            -          -                                            -           -
h.  Office Equipment  2/                     -         5.0          -         12.00       -           -         -           -          -           -         -          17.00
c.  Technical Equipment  3/                            5.0   -                36.64       -           -         -           _          -           _         -          41.64
d.  Vehicles  4/
(1)  Pickup                             -         -              1        3.50       -                                                                   1 -.50
(2)  Sedan                               1        3.0            1        3.00       -           -         -           -          _           _         2           6.00
(3)  Minibus                           -          -              1        9.50       -                                                                   1          9.50
(4)  Bus                                          -              1       300         -          -          --                     -                     1          30.00
Subtotal                             13.0                   94-64                                                                                    107.64
I I.  TECHNICAL SERVICES
a.  Overseas Fellowships M.Sc  (MY)           1        5.3            1        4.1        2          10.6       -           -          -           -         4          20.00
b.  Local Fellowships M.Sc  (MY)              -        -              2        1.0        2           1.0       2           1.0        1           0.5       7           1.50
c.  Short-tern Training   (MM)                5        5.0          lo        10.0       20         20.0       10          10.0       10          10.0      55          55.00
d.  Scieetific Meetings   (MM)                1        1.5           2         3.0        2           3.0       2           3.0        2           1.0       9          13.50
e,  Library  5/                              26        0.7          26         0.7       26           0.7      26           0.7       26           0.7     130           3.50
f, Business Manageeent and
Administration Training (C/Y) 6/   6             41.6            6       41.6        6          41.6        6         41.6        6          41.6       30        208.00
Subtotal                            54.1                    60.4                  76.9                   56.3                   55.8                 303,50
IV.    INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
.  Salaries and Wages
(1)   Professional Staff 7/             -        11.4          -         11.4        -          11.4       -          1.4                    114        -          57.00
(2)  Technical Staff  7/                -         0o.6         -         10.6        -          ío.6       -          ío.6        -          10.6       -          53.00
(3)  Clerical and Farm  Staff           -         -            -          -          -           _         _           -          _           _         -           _
(4)  Laborers  8/                       -         -
(5)  Staff Benefits  8/                 -        29.0          _         29.0                  20          -          29.0        -         29.0                  145.00
Subtotal                            51.0                    51.0                  51.0                   51.0                  51.0                  255.00
b.  Other Operational Costs
(1) Operation and Maintenance
Vehicles  3/                      1          0.6          5         3.0        5           3.0        5           3.0       5           3.O        5         12.60
(2)  Equipment Operation and
Maintenance                       -          0.5          -         4.0        -           4.0       -           4.0        -           4.0        -         16.50
(3) Office Materiais and
Supplies   10/                    -          -           -          3.5        _           3.5        -           3.5       -           3.5        _         14,00
(4)  Buildinq Maintecance               -         -            -          -          -          13.0       -          13.0        -          1l.0       -          39.00
(5)  Research Material                  -         -            -          -          -          -          -           -          -           -         -           -
(6)  Travel and Perdiem                 -         3.3          -         11.2        -         12.0        -          12.5       -           13.0       -          52.00
Subtotal                             4.4                    21.7                  35.5                   36.0                   36.5                 134.10
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                    267.97                  349.74               163.4                   143.3                 143.i                1,067.71
1/  See Project File Civil Works Annee.                               6/  See Table 416 Business Management aed Admieistration  Traininq,
2/  Sen Table 412 Office Equipment Investments                        2/  See Table 417 Salaries and Wages and 418 Staffing Schedule.
of Project FIle Preparation Report Vol. IV.                       8/  See Table 419 Staff Benefits.
3/  See Table 413 Technical Eqaipeent In-esteents.                    3/  Sen Table 420 Operation and Maietenaece  Vehicles.
4/  See Table 414 Vehicle  Investments.                              10/  Sen Table 421 Office Materiais and Supplies.
S/ See Table 415 Library lnvesteents.
November 19, 1981



PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENS ION PROJECT
uocumentation anr.  raining Zervices ie rive u-r--
(Millions SI.)
Year 1                 Year 2                Year 3                 Year 4                 Year 5                 Total
ITEM                                      No.        Cost        No.        Cost        No.        Cost        No.        Cost        No.        Cost        No.      l!'ost
1,    CIVIL WORK
a.  Construction and Site
Development                                  _          _           _          _           _          _           _          _           _          _           _          _
b.  Research Farm Development
c.  Land Purchase
d.  Engineering Project Studies                   -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -
Subtotal
II,   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION
a.  Scientific Equipment                          -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -
b.  Field Equipment
c.  Office Equipment  1/                          -         6.50         -        15.30         -          -           -                                                     21.80
d.  Technical Equipment  j/                       -        59.95                    --                           -          -                 -                              5995
e.  Vehicles   3/
(1)  Pickup                                  5        17.50                                                                                                               7 -   =  -_  _  1750
(2)  Sedan                                   -
(3)  Minibus
(4)  Bus                                                                       -           -          -           -         -            -         -            -          -
Subtotal                                 83.95                  15.30                                                                                       99.25
IiI.  TECHNICAL SERV ICES
a.  Overseas Fellowships M.Sc.  (MY)
b.  Local Fellowships M.Sc.  (MY)
c.  Short Term  Training    (MM)                 15        15.00        15        15.00        15        15.00        15        15,00         10       10.00        70        7A 00
d.  Scientific Meetings    (MM)                   -          -           -          -           -          =           -          -
e.  Library  (Subscriptions)                      -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -
Subtotal                                 15.00                  15.00                  15.00                  15.00                  10.00                  70.00                        -
IV.    INCREMENTAL OPERATIONAL COSTS
a.  Salaries and Wages
(I)   Professional Staff  4/                 -        11.40         -        11.40         -        11.40         -        11.40         -        11.40         -        7.00
(2)  Technical Staff                         -        13.20                  13.20         -        13.20         -       13.20          -        1i.20                 66.00
(3)  Clerical and Farm Staff
(4)  Laborers
(5)  Staff Benefits  5/                      -         5.40                    - 5.40                 -                    5.40         -          5.40         -       27.00
Subtotal                                 30.00                  30.00                  30.00 o0.00                                   30.00                 150.00
b,  Other Operational Cost
(1)  Operation and Maintenance
Vehicles  6/                           5         3.00         5         3.00         5         3.00         5         1.00         5         3.00         -        15.00
(2)  Equipment Operation and
Maintenance                            -         4.00         -         4.00         -         4.oo         -         4.00         -         4.0or.       -        20.00
(3)  Office Materials and Supplies 7/ -                7.50         -         7.50         -         7.50         -         7.50         -         7.50         -       37.50
(4)  Building Maintenance                                     -                -           -          -           -          -
(5)  Research Material                                        -                -           -
(6)  Travel and Perdiem                      -         7.50         -            7.50 -                                       7.507.50                          -       37.50
-      Subtotal                                 22.00                  22.00                  22.00                  22.00                  22.00                 ; o0.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                          150.95                  82.30                  67.00                 67.00                   62.01                 429.25
1/  See Table 423 Office Equipment Investments of Project File Preparation Report Vol. IV.
2!  See Table 424 Technical Equip,ment Investments.
3/  See Table 425 Vehicle lnvestments.
,/   See Table 426 and 427 Salaries and Wages and Staffing Schedule.
S/  See Table 428 Staff Benefits.
6/  See Table 429 Operation and Maintenance Vehicles.
7/  See Table 430 Office Materiais and Suppl ies.
November 20, 1981



PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Coenooti¡q and Statistical Service
(Millions S/.)
Year 1                  Year 2                 Year 3                Year 4                 Year 5                Total
ITEM                                      No.        Cost        No.        Cost        No.        Cost        No.        Cost        No.        Cost       No.        Cost
1.    CIVIL WORK
a.  Construct¡on and Site
Development                                        -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -                -          -
b.  Research Farm Development
c.  Land Purchase
Subtotal 
I1.   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION
a.  Scientific Equipment  1/                      -        79.80         -        26.60         -          -           -                                                    o106.40
b.  Research Farm Equipment                                                                                -                -                                                 -
c.  Office Equipment  2/                          -        11.43         -         3.81         -          -           -          -           _          _         _        15.24
d.  Inform  and Document Equipment                -          -                -                                                  -
e. Vehicles j/
(1)   Pickups                                1         3.50         -          -           -          -           -         -            -          -         1         1.50
(2)  Trucks                                                                                -          -                                                       -          -
(3)  Minibus
Subtotal                               94.73                  30.41                                                                                    125.14
II1.  TECHNICAL SERVICE
a.  Overseas Fellowships M.Sc/Ph.D.(MY)    2               I0.60         4        18.80         2         8.20         -          -           -                    8        37.60
b.   Local Fellowships M.Sc  (MY)                 1         0.50         2         1.00         1         0.50              -           -                -          4        2.00
c.  Short Ter. Training   (MM)                    3        10.50         2         7.00         -          -                                                        5       17.50
d.  Scientlfic Meetings   (MM)                    1         1.50         1         1.50         1         1.50         1         1.50         1         1.50        5        7.50
e.  Library  (Subscriptions)   4/                12         0.14        12         0.14        12        0.14         12        0.14         12        0 14       60        0o70
Subtotal                               23.24                  28.44                  10.34                   1.64                   1.64                65.30
IV.    INCREMENTAL OPERATIONAL COST
a. Salaries and Wages 5/
(1)   Professional Staff                     3         6.84         3         6.84         3        6.84          3        6.84          1        6.84        15       34.20
(2)  Technical Staff                         3         3.96         3         3.96         3         3.96         3         3,96         3         3.96       15       19.80
(3)  Clerical and Farm Staff                 1          1.20        1         1.20         1         1.20         1         1.20         1         1.20        5        6.00
(4)  Laborers                                -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -           -
(5)  Staff Benefits                          9          3.23        9         3.23         9         3.23         9         3.23         9         3.21      45        16.1S
Subtotal                                15.23                 >5.23                  15.23                  15.23                  15.23                76.15
b. Other Operational Cost
(1)  Operation and Maintenance
Vehicles  6/                           -          0.60        -         0.60         -         0.60         -         0.60         -         0,60        -         3.00
(2)  Equipment Operation and
Maintenance                            -         10.00        -        10.00         -        10.00         -        10.00         -        10.00        -       50.00
(3)  Office Materials and Supplies 7/ -                 4.80        -         4.80         -        4.80          -         4.80         -         4.80        -       24.00
(4)  Building Maintenance                    -
(5)  Research Material                       -
(6)  Travel and Perdiem                      -          5.00        -         1.50         -         1.50         -         1.50         -         1.50        -       11.00
Subtotal                                20.40                 16.90                  16.90                  16.90                  i6.9o0                88.oo
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                           15j3.60                90.98                 42.47                   33.77                  31.77               354.59
1/  See Table 401 Scientific Equipment of Project File Preparation Report Vol. IV.
2/  See Table 402 Office Equipment.
/i  See Table 403 Vehicles  Investments.
4/  See Table 404 Llbrary  (subscriptions).
j/  See Table 405 and 406 Salaries and Wages, and Staffing Scheuile.
6/  See Table 407 Operation and Maintenance Vehicles.
1/  See Table 408 Office Material and Suppl les.
November 20, 1981



O-    -    O-  oC                                              O-O-      - O   -.O-CCCCECECC OH                   0-CCEOCEOC       oCrE-CC-
o    -..   >.  O                             -                 . O-      -CEO-OEEE-CCOE-OCCO                       EEC-OC--O         ECCOO.-C
4               oC  CE                           O               CO  CE  CCEOO¡COECOOOEO   CE                      EOO,Eo-CECEOEEE[CE
CC  -OC.   C.C  C       C-.                 O  O        CC-   OnCE        O- CCOCEEoC-CECC.C¡C-CO-C               CCECCEC-C  CE  ECO.E,-C
E   ECO                  O                   CC  OC-     COCo  ¡EEC   E   EE'1C-ECCCCCCOO-EE>   E                  0000.00   E   E   ECCO
E  OC-E   CO       O-  o-0-.  oC-C-  o.   O-        O-OCCCCO-.CCC    ¡.  O-E   CCCC-C¡'CCC    «o.  ¡O
CC  -E      CE  O-  O    CCoO          CC    EEOOCCO-O-IE            E   000   OOOECCO. OtEO   E                   EO    «CC-CE  0   ('COCO
-    C-COECC-Co            'O-O-' .-  O-    E            O-CC  E         ¡CO   OOo                             oO0CCH   E   O   OEC
CO   CO  CO  -                         O  o  CECCOHEEO-               CECCEO ECO    -''E    O-  ¡¡¡¡CI    CO-OCE  E-  C-  EO-C-.C-C- O OCECCOnO  O-O-.O-.)n O-o   EEC-CC-CC O-E  'CE EE   CC  ECECCOC-CE>  CC  CCOO  O
7       CC  O       OCEC-COCE   CECEO          - EC.CEOE CC         0CE      O  E    OECE                      COCO   CE      'OCC -k       -
CE   ECEE                                     ECCO   E ECO…CE CC 00
CEOE         EEEOO                CCECCC-CECECO-HEC-CE           HECO-CEOOEOSOCO-            OEO
CE  O       EC-OOEECC O-E-CEE O          CCCEOO-CCCO         ('CE EOEEOEO  CO-CE             OO-CEEC-COEEO               000
O-O    <.0  CE      EC-'E'O E'-,-- E,-O-EC        'OOCCEEECE            CC¡E-CEC-.COCEEO            E OEOE.OC- EEC
CO  - O         CC     'COoEECOCEOC'                  CCOO-CE-CE          EO-.-0..-CCO-C-C,--C          ('O-  OCOOCCOO.H                CEE      O
EC    -     -            EEO-CICCEE OC-OC-           O-ECO CE-             E OOECCC-¶EC-CC-EEO           O-E  .ICCECC   EEC         o  00.
-  roCE    CE          E-EOC    COEEC.CE             EC.-CC '-«('E'        EEC.- CEOo-CO- CO             EC   0000
CE          CCECO0ECCO                     O-E   CC          CCOO-CO-OC OCrE                     O           OCE      CC
-¡CC-O             EEC  E.E-E-CC         O       CC  CCOC0Z                E  CC  O    'O                  O-          ¡CO      -.  ECO
- O                 'CC-CE   CEEEO    CO         -.  EnO-CC-           E   CCCECEE    CE                  E             O       E  00
CE               O-CC'EOC-OO  E   OC           CC  OC   .-           O   O-nEO-   oo                    E             CE      E  0
oE O EEO.oEE E. E 0 0. CO E -. E '-O E Oc
O            ('OC   -                                      O           CE
CE E- CO - S. CE CC - ¡'E
CC               -.  OC             :E                            CE            O
Í                           CC                           CC                       ¡           g'  
¡1¡1'11¡1                                              1                                                     ¡ ¡
CC  O-CEOCECECECOCEO-COE       O-CO             O-OO-C-    E-OC- CE
CO>.>  E-OCOCCCCO CEO-  o        CE  COCEO-OC-       O-  CE  CECEO CECEO-CEC.CCEO-    E-E-           O-CEE-O-    CO  CCCCE
o   o  O   CEOCOCOCOO-O-  O-        O-  CECECOECCE
CE     z
CO  O- CE  O-CEO-CEO-O-O-CC  CO      E   OCEO-CEO         CEE-CECOO-O-O-COO- O-    EO-I -3    ¡ ¡ COCOECO    E>  SECO
4C-OO-O-O-O-O-O-CCCCO-E-O                                CE      O-E-          O-  O-   O-               O-  E>O-   O-         E
O-O         CCO-O-O-OO-O-CC  O-      O-  O-O-CEOE>       C.OCCO-COCOO- ECCECECOO-CO      E-E             O-CEO-CO    CO   COCC
CE  CC  CO  CEO-O OCCOCEO-CO         O-  CEO-O-CEO       O- CE  OCECEOCECECEO-CECO       ro             O-CECCO    CO  1 CECECO                        ¡
CE  ECOE-OCECOE-OE-OE-               CO  CECCO-OCE       O-  E-  O-CEOCECOCCCECCCOCO     00              ECCOCECCO         CEO-       C-!      OC-  E> ¡CC
iii                  ¡   ¡           O-        00   COECO-CO               O  O                                         O  CE
-O-   CC
O-  E-  CE  O-O  CECEO-O-CC  CO      o   O-O-ECO-O       CO  E-  CE O-O-  CCC-"O-O-CCCE    E-CE          O-CEO-                                Lí -
CE  CE  O-CCOO-OECE-E- CO  O-        O   O-OOCEE-        O-CC   O-O-COCEO- CEO-O-O-      E-CE ¡¡¡¡¡¡O-O-CEO-             ¡ ¡
..              ....                        ¡              '0
CEO-O-E-E-O- O-CEO-E-CE  O           O-  O-CECEO-O-      o  O-  O-CEE-CE CEO-O-O-O-      O-CC            O-O-O-O-                    ¡               O-
CEE-O¡CECOOOE-COCO CE  O-    CE  CEOCECCO-               o  CE  OCECECECEOCEoCEO         00              CCO-00                                      O
¡ - ¡¡¡sí.    ¡              ¡¡¡si               OC  1 ¡ ¡  O-¡O-O-O-C'          ¡¡¡¡¡¡C¡C                   ¡  C ¡      ¡             CC
COO-CEO-O   CECEO-O-CC  CE           O-  O-CEO-CCO       COOOO-O-  O-O-CEO-O-O-    E-O-
OC'
O-  OO-CCOCOO-O-OE-COE-              O  O-OOCOO          O-CC   O-COCO- O-CEO-O-O-O-O-CO ¡Clin    E-E-CO                 ¡ ¡ ¡
CE  O-O-IE-E-O-O-COCECEO-O-          CE  O-CEO-COCO      O-  OC  OO-OCECOCCOO-CEO-    O-C                O-CE  E>
CE  O-CC¡CECOOO COOO-CO  CC          O-  CEO-O-oo.       o  CE  CECECECECECOCEO-CEO      O-CE            CEO-  O
CE  O-  CE  O-O  CECEO-O-O  CE    CO  O-CEO-O-O          O-  O  CEO-C-  O-O-CECE  C,C   CC   i¡¡¡¡¡C¡                    - -
E-  COO-O-O-O O-O-E-E-CO   o         O-  O-O-CCOO        O-O-O-O-COCEO-CECEO-O-O-O-CO
CEO-  O-  OOCE ECOCEOCO  CO          CO  O-COO-CCCE      O-  O-  O-OE-CECECECEO-OO-      00
CE  O-  E  ICECEO-CECEE-O-CE  CO    CO  O- O- CC O- O-   O  CE  CE O CE CE CE O- O'O- CO CE   CC CE        CE
CO-                C-O¡CC¡               ¡¡
CE       O-O-  CO  O-O-
O        COO-  O- COCO         O-COO-E-O-O-                     CE
O-       E-                    E-O-                 O-     O-        O-
O-  O-       O-          CC    O-         O-O-       -       CEOO-                   O-O-
O-CEO-                                                              ¡VI
O-      CE             O-CE  CE
O-O-O-CEO-O-O-COCEE-                 CEOCCO-CEO-         O-
CO  CEO-O-CEE-CEO-O-E- CO  CO    CO  O-E-O-E-                 CE   COO-O-E-E-COO-O-    O- CEC ¡ C ¡ ¡ ¡ O-O-E-O-    O-O-CECEO-        0 ¡
ECO-E-   OCOCCOCE O-O-CO  E-             O-CCOO-        O-CO   C-  0COO-COE-CE O-E-    COCO            O-O-CESCE    O-OCOCEO-       O- ¡
CE  oC  CE  CEE-O-O-CCOO-O-  O-    CO  COCEO-COCE        CO    COCOO-CEO- O-O-    O-CC                COCOO-O-    CE  E-E-O-CO
CE  CE  CO  CEO-O-O--O-O-O-  O-      O   CEO-O-O-O-                    CEOCECECEECO-    O-E-             O-O-O-O    O-  O-O-CEO-
DL atqeI
6flv
- DL -



- 76 -
ANNEX 9
Table 11
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RE SEARCH AND EXTENSION PROTECT
Disbursement Schedule
US$ Millions
Quarterly            Cumulative
Amount                Total
1982          September 30                     -
December 31                     1.8                    1.8
1983          March 31                         1.8                    4.4
June 30                         1.8                    5.4
September 30                    3.0                    8.4
December 31                     4.5                   12.9
1984          March 31                         3.5                   16.4
June 30                         3.5                   19.9
September 30                    1.5                   21.4
December 31                     1.5                   22.9
1985          March 31                         1.6                   24.5
June 30                         2.1                   26.6
September 30                    1.5                   28.1
December 31                     1.5                   29.6
1986          March 30                         1.5                   31.1
Ju¿e 30                         1.5,                  32.6
September 30                    1-.5     .            34.1
December 31                    '1.5      ,            35.6
1987          March 31                         1.0                   36.6
June 30                         1.0                   37.6
September 30                    1.0                   38.6
December 31                     1.0                   39.6
1988          March 31                         1.0                   40.6
January 4, 1982



- 77 -
ANNEX 9
Table 12
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Summary of Area and Extension orcanlzatlon Stattstlcs In Five Proiect CIPAS
PIURA         CHICLAYO         TRUJILLO          HUARAZ          CAJAMARCA
1. Area total                                            ,4,114,000 ha    1,374,000 ha    825,247 ha    3,631,000 ha    1,515,823 ha
2. Irrigated area                                             176,978 ha        138,852 ha    144,436 ha         114,436 ha         75,112 ha
3. Raínfed agriculture                                         63,727 ha          7,405 ha    173,168 ha         135,158 ha        396,161 ha
4.   Subtotal Cultivation                                     240,705 ha        146,257 ha    317,604 ha         249,594 ha        471,273 ha
5. Pasture national                                         1,154,011 ha         16,318 ha    522,096 ha         583,096 ha    1,545,000 ha
6. Porest/Scrub                                               210,434 ha         42,258 ha      83,498 ha         21,710 ha        347,878 ha
7. Total number of agricultural producers                      75,010            38,274         65,572            90,937           174,821
8. % producers In the Coast                                        61                67              51               16                 2
9. % producers in the Sierra                                       39                33              49               84                92
10. % producers in the Selva                                         -                -               -                -                  6
11. Number of cooperative-type farms                               156               103             142              283               112
12. Producers in cooperative-type organizations
number -                                                 17,934             6,870         30,012            53,315            13,745
area -                                                  425,620           195,449         720,967        1,112,750           465,614
13. Individually owned farms
number -                                                 57,076            31,404          30,919           37,622           161,076
area   -                                                135,109 ha         92,412 ha      89,580 ha         49,941 ha        686,423 ha
14. Farmers between 1 anl 20 ha directly influenced
by T and V system -                                      30,080            21,968          21,328           26,720            32,592
15. Contact farmers (T and V)                                    3,928             2,392          2,836             3,712             3,752
16. Sectors/sectoristas (T and V)                                   69                45             63                76               100
17. Agencíes (T and V)                                              20                 9              11               13                17
18. Zones                                                            3                 2               2                3                 3
19. Cooperative extensaon officers                                   6                 3               2                 3                3
20. Subject matter specialists                                      14                 9              11               14                19
1/  The available  sources of statistics on land ownership are frequently at variance; the figures provided by INIPA CIPA officials
have been accepted   as the most reliable.  However, this table represents only a guide as to the relative magnitude of land
area usage and extension staffing, and more accurate figures will be defined during preparation of detailed work plans.
2/  Contact farmers and those neighboring  farmers between one and 20 ha who are included in the program of direct Influence by the
contact farmers.
October 21, 1981



PERU
AGRICULTUFAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Econolic Rato of Returc Esetiates
USS '000 <1981 Constant Valus)
Year-          1         2           3         4        5          6           7         8           9          lo         11          12         11         14         15         16           7          8         19         20
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS   1/                                      4,053    8,106      12.159      14,185     18,238    22,291      26,345     32,424    40,412    48,636    52,689    57,958    62,822    66,064    68,901              74,980    76,196    79,031
INCREMENTAL COSTS
12,527    5,741        597       101         32       -           -          -          -          -          -
Repl-cereot e /
Fleld Equipment                       -         -           -         -           -       -           -          -          -          -         2 941
TeohnIcalI EqoIp-ect                  -         -1 120
Motorcycles                           -         -           -         -            -       719        -          -          -          -            719      -           -          -          -            719
Other Vehicles                        -         -           -         _           _       _          3,089       -          -          -          -          -           -         5,089       -          -           -          -          -            -
Technlcel Seroices                      2,927    3,973    3,249       1,460         933                                              -                                                 -
Operati¡g Cgsts                         6,566     5.860    5,764    5,831        5.839       5,838      5,839      5.839      5.839      5,839       5.819      8.839      5,839      5.839      5.839       5,839      5,819      5.839      5.819    S5839
Physioel C-ctiegeccies                    943       879       165        144        140         37        159             -          -          -          -                -          -          -           -          -          -          -           -
Cot of Prodo.tioe lpots o-
F.rms  3/                             -         -          970     1.915      2,911      3.396      4,366       5,116      6.306      7,8S9      9.702     11.642      12,61i    i,874      15.038     15,814    16.279       17.949     18.249     18,919
Less Local Daties a-d Teces             2,168       994       104         17      -           -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          _           _
NET INCREMENTAL BENEFITS (NIB)           (20,795) (15,459)  (6,588)  (1,328)    2,304           4.184      4,785    11,116       14,200     18,726     19,891     31.155     14,217      35,156    41.945    43,692    46,781    51.192          52,108    54,275
Eco-oelo Rete of Retore (ERR)           20.5%
/  The Bank co--odity pice projeoti¡os are oseO co est. t tce prloes of ;nteroat¡onelly treded produots.    opon,t
sobsticotloe ecceoei  prices ere osed for rice, hard core ecd aheet at US$402; US$250 eOd USS300 per rertio
toe, respectioely.  Aeecoeorle e..port price of USS891 per-eer tl  tao of seOd c-ott-  it  --ed.  Loca  e prces
preoa¡l¡ng  o ;98; ere osed for soft corn, beons, potatoes eOd rasse- e et US487, US0853, US$140 arOd USSIIO
por ceirio ton rncrec ucd0.
2/ Replíacecent rets ere free of local tcaes ard doties.
_/ As costs of iopost caosleg 1--creree-tl beceflis (pera 7.03).
Januery 4, 1982



-79-
Chart 
PERU
AGRICULTURtAL RESEACH ANO EXTENS ION PROJECT
CivTl Works  1mple.net.ti---aarnn  Schedule
Project Sear-                    proj-ct SearS                                                                                                        2
Cele-oar Veere              1981                             1982                                                     1983                             [1 9       198
m---th, n                        1i.2 1      2 1 3   4   5   6   7      8 9       Sr 11     12 11   2   3    1.   5   6   7   8       9 1011       2_ _               i4     5 6
Q-ert-r                                                   2             3            4               1            2             3              4              1           2
AppOiot,ert of 
Arcfhit,cts. Enqi-neere
dn S.-vy-r
otnonb.ildinqe       Site  ed-tUifceti---
/.84i, 68  1/
Aq.i,it!-o
Adj  i---ti-n-          n A.ard
'~~~~~  pro ale~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ay. nitionidi"Aj.ict.,..1A.,
Sor ove~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Seon.  PIe  ¿   Skety.h Oesiyn ~  ~          ~         C.-   1.
si. 1278.12 ~ ~   ~      ~       ~     ~      i     Ssgea~   otro  Dse
App---.] ~ ~  ~     ~      ~    ~     Ap   a
?ASProoel   Final OFi---                          t Cotr.t t,t.
B¡ddieqAd AdjvAonten ---rdAd
1/  Base coen  o  SSS 055 Solee. Jove 1951.~~pp---.
DS.. Cetr-oti   nl   o   oSibei   h  Ser-r--neyn   erhAen  noyrle
S/  ov244 er 16             P- 9,yD1 



-80-                                ANNEX 9
Chart 2
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
INIPA - Technical Assistance Schedule
Jan        Jan        Jan        Jan       Jan        Jan
'82        '83        '84        '85       '86        '87
July      July       July       July      July
SPECIALISTS                      '                  ,            .      *_._ .
1.  Project Manager   (1)
2. National Research
Coordinator Counterparts (9)
(rice, maize, small cereals,,
pulses, potatoes, pasture/
livestock, soil/water ma-
nagement, plant protection,
cotton)
3. Off-station Research-Farm
System Coordinator  (1)           ----
4. Agricultural Credit
Specialist      (1)
CONSULTANCIES
1.  Project Start-up Assistance        m
2.  Extension Methodology
Training and Assistance             30 man-years
3. Engineering Design Technical i
Assistance (if necessary)          man-months;
4.  Monitoring and Evaluation
(Extension)                     14 man-months     4 man-months    4 man-months        4 man-months
5.  Machinery Services                             __ .2  an 9ear§
6. Agricultural and Rural
Marketing Service                                    man- vears
7.  Computer Services for
Research and Accounts
Administration                              .*i-l4 mar  ears
8.  Library Organization                                                       3 man-months
9.  Future Project Preparation                                                __   1 man-v ar
10. Management/Administrative
Training                                         6 cour e/y-ear  _ _ _                   
11. Farm System Analysis Training *2 man-months each course (10 participants
------------ 7Organization of Recruitment
Operational Status
November 16, 1981



PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
¡ N I PA
ORGANIZATION CHART
-|-                       -    - -       -- - 1- -          - -                                                              I-
Dlfecterate os              Wor d Bank           IDB  rjc           USAID PDI.,- 
Off,ce of                                                                 TehiaP,roecf Mocager                                           Maragefnefl          Msanagemet | I
l l ~~~~~~~~II
---           -Y-l l  )r-…-                                          ----                          -
1                -r-                                                                                                                                                       90
|  ocecufove DOrfcfo,fc                                1 | fofO  Lfe,t,e SOfcofff                                                                                                      |0,0 -ain'McieY 
(1)S.  A,lL,                                                                                L 
fldoOOSf,ff,O            Mo,OfeBO,a-2339
O O f fOp r to s   |   -  M echao,ood  A gf icuIUSt r |
L ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Orcot   3 EOmE
T,c                             ______________________ 
( 1 } So r Analvs s LJbs                                                                            sension                                                                                                                     w çD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00,05, ~   SSSfOt Sfoo
Animal ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       oscc Eelt                  Ofoosno…Zoca Ag.                                                                          -      Znl         S,sa
Not Dlesent sn all C I P~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Safoo                                        Zon sOC  fo,i B Éfank   2319



PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Extensrion Service Chart for
CIPA PIURA
43.138O
T04...1 rOas                         244.701                                                                                            1.34
T..41 0446675,010
OT-l1441    40,,                      57.000
Toral A-d0064; 4.0440446              30,080
T.41.Co46C  Fa ----                    3.928                                                                                            64,
2,4s
,f%~~~w-
Toal ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~o Indijidut i                                                             arts5707
Tolal ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~o  0440,e Co0 0i,40046                                                                   044 04. 404 0900
ToTal ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~o,,orla                                                         46*,ac  Coro,,,) 3.928  8r4aM.o
Z8
C,6444 ~ ~ ~ ~~~CV )l,00004t                     0,6444Mat
/.606           444.04 P4404604;4a-
1/ Y4660.144444410.4. .60l400.4v 6640¡0,0000006004146 490.604 *fl4.40416F
m~[                                                                          SuLaa --mm           {           | -,
~/A l-.40104404¡6¡8  00.1.  fd464 DI-4.oto.4  0 T-.OlroI C44-4404¡0410                    -Idr .01   ---poibI*  4.1 44w16 1040
16.44.  46,40404oaoo.¡460.op-or,, 644. ---  -. 00 .   .14 , f---
4/ Ao,0o444r  6060444604444406  a40600440i0   ---f-  E. ---i. 0 6              4     - -



- 83 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Supporting Documents Available in Project File
1. PREPARATION REPORT
Volume 1     Summary Report
Volume II    Written Background Annexes and General Data on
Project Area
Volume III:  Cost Tables CIPA Extension
Volume IV : Cost Tables CIPA Research, National Support Programs
II.  CIVIL WORKS
Appraisal Mission½s data on building programs including space
requirements, site works, equipment, phasing and estimated costs.
III. Contract documents between GOP and the Israel Association of
International Cooperation relating to training and visit extension
methodology training.
IV.  Basic staffing and salary data for project CIPAs - 1981.
V. INIPA terms of reference for study on agricultural mechanization.
VI.  Convenio de Bases para el Desarrollo de Acciones de Capacitacion
de Administracion Empresarial Entre el Instituto Nacional de
Investigacion y Promocion Agropecuaria y la Escuela de
Administracion de Negocios para Graduados.
VII. Letter of Intent from Chief of INIPA to General Manager of BAP
indicating INIPA½s willingness to provide technical services to
recipients of credit from BAP.
VIII. Sub-Sistema de Planificacion del Instituto Nacional de
Investigacion y Promocion Agropecuaria - INIPA - October 1981.
IX.  Peruvian Government Bidding Procedures:  (a) Licitacion Publica;
(b) Contratos; and (c) Cronogramas.



- 84 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
X. Baseline study of the Peruvian Agricultural Research, Education
and Extension System - USAID December 1979 (two volumes) -
Spanish, English - Summary Report for Agricultural Sector Loan -
IDB; Convenio de Proyecto Entre Peru y USA.
XI. Plan Operativo del Sector Agrario 1980-81 - Ministerio de Agri-
cultura y Alimentacion.
XII. Exposicion Ante la Comision Bicameral del Congreso de la Republica
Peru Ejercicio Fiscal 1982 - INIAP September 1981.
XIII. Informacion de Base para la Comision de Coordinacion - INIA -
June 1980.
XIV. Plan Operativo del Instituto Nacional de Investigacion Agraria
INIA - 1980.
XV. Ten technical and training bulletins for research/extension
programs published by INIAP/INIA.
XVI. Universidad Nacional Agraria Resumen del Proyecto de Inversion
Actualizado - 1981.
XVII. El Sistema de Investigacion Agropecuaria y Transferencia de Tecno-
logia en Costa Rica: ISNAR, June 1981.
XVIII. Peru: Project Preparation Irrigation Rehabilitation III (by
INAF).
January 7, 1982



PEFRU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                                             IBRD-1012R
r-.  ys                                                                             MARCH 19i2
f_,V. I/ O CEDROS
/*Tumnb'es                                              * o  Cities                                                       *Tumbes                                                     O    Existing research stations
TU MB8S                                                                                                                                                                                           D -evelopment with the project on
15,9                                        ~ ~~~~~~~Extension zone boundaries                                  2                                                       ' existing research stationss
CIPA boundories                                                        / (                                                    New research stations
f~ -    -  __ International boundary                                                                                                                                                             Ecological zones
«,i   b   *\j,                                                          )               i         '\v_                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coost
k  SUIL ANhA                                                                                                                      C iHIRA#<  !          >              /                                Sierra
P  ,1   U      R   A          '>H-RA P l    U    R A                                                                                                                                               Cities
i~    j      r           4                        .A                                                                       5P'                        -         .    oSANIGNACIO                          CIPA boundaries
>' Pi   u *   R                                                                                                                                                                                      lPua'oUNAA8  <  nternational boundory
A         S           ,;--  J,3~~~~~~ RAl    i\                                                                              OMONTEGRANDE  * 
(OTUPE- /      " Oi ,-.,<    ,.   ;,.                                                                                      ,- "''  OLMOS                           AGU.
<       H     LAy-A              C H ¿7  .c,  ,."                                                                      'N,         C H  I C L A Y,O
, SX4>A¿;CA J A M A-R C A Á                                                                                                    VISTA                OCHOTA
-LORIDA
Chiclay9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ciiy
Chiclayo OCAJAMARCA
oLwc/S¿c   nce.vrx  A  A        Calamarca    ;                                                                                JEOUEPEPEQREO                *iColamarc
/'(   '//  ,c _r iCmrO*~AAAC
~CAJABAMBA
TP!iJ/Z ¿            E /Ai0i;'iC-/ft                                 =                       Y    COLOMBIA                 0PAIJAN
T  R  U  J  1  L LO                                         :-Pojc Are-                'L..                                T  R¡J  I L  L  O
<Tru jillo  /        "«%'' 'I   '' 't- "                     --CIPA Boondor,ies              _TUZCO
uj llo            t      .B.,                              -._  nieeoto  Rnod.res                   > ¡                    rufillo       içOFUAMACHUCO
1           0*'I~~~~~~~~~~~~
2               i                y' --                                   _, i,; , jÁ 4;iT-L> ; IOQUITOS U 10T150
¿f1 o /,¡,'   McM 
Y-   1, --A     MO0OBIiMBA-,
A0A\RCA uÚ R  Z91 '. ¿  BRAZIL                                        H    U    A    R    A        Z
E'                                          ,~~~~~~~~~~~~TINGUA
PUCALLPA                                                  HIJARl    N          HUA RI
CH/M801.      ~Huaraz                                                                                                                     *Huaroz
MILES O                 ^,JO                               Líma  _IÁ              MADRE DE DIOS
KILOMETERS 0    40     80    120    160    200                                                                                         CUZCO
MILES  0  20   40  L;O  E0       00   120                                                                                                  P o  UNOS.
o,S he ndorn oP SM repon So oh/ch Ua.Ofsoaohd rhM d.no,oñabpLnon d aonIO  O.. . 
ósthooSM.U 000 oh,sma do noS irep, ondrotiaioAdnédt SM pon< o, PO  \oM8, n
.5ffiO.S. £05, jom.9nr   OoSm&dh/ 05*500 oPat     £555 S.'oMV      or ,ny S,don.n*oS!C,  1                                                        ejvg                       
*CO.SafC. f 0000hoWSd#. WJ~CNk.k.
canem6m»                                         C H / L E   S   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __CN A .
I                                        \                     i                                               ~~~~~~~~~~                                   ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHIL E  _  



