Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3292-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
.REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
April 28, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
differential between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate
and currency equivalents in 1981 and as of March 31, 1982 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1981                    March 31, 1982
US$1                        SI. 426.60                         S/. 575.28
S/. 1                       US$0.0023                          US$0.0017
S/. 1,00o0                  US$2.34                            US$1.74
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARE         -   Agrarian Reform Enterprises
BAP         -   Banco Agrario del Peru
(Peruvian Agricultural Bank)
CGIAR       -   Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
CIPA        -   Centro de Investigacion y Promocion Agropecuaria
(Agricultural and Livestock Research and Extension
Centers)
ERP         -   Economic Recovery Program
IDB         -   Inter-American Development Bank
INAF        -   Instituto Nacional de Ampliacion de la Frontera Agricola
(National Institute for Expansion of the Agricultural
Frontier)
INIPA       -   Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y Promocion Agropecuaria
(National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock Research
and Extension)
MA          -   Ministerio de Agricultura
(Ministry of Agriculture)
T and V    -   Training and visit extension methodology
USAID       -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Peru
Beneficiaries:       National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock
Research and Extension (INIPA) and the National Institute
for the Expansion of the Agricultural Frontier (INAF)
Amount:              US$40.6 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$600,000.
Terms:               Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
11.6 percent interest per annum. The loan's proceeds
would be transferred to the beneficiaries free of charges
and repayment obligations.
Project
Description:       The project's objective is to rebuild Peru's agricultural
research and extension services. This would be
accomplished through support for the program of INIPA at
the national level and in the six northern departments of
Peru. The project would include: (i) the construction
and equipping of research facilities in northern Peru
and, on a national level, training and the provision of
technical services to develop research programs; (ii) the
construction and equipping of facilities and the provi-
sion of vehicles for the extension service in northern
Peru and, on a national level, training and consulting
services to introduce the "training and visit" (T and V)
extension system; and (iii) institutional support for
INIPA, including strengthening of its Planning Depart-
ment, providing a computing and statistical service,
constructing a documentation and training center and
studies related to INIPA's operations. Finally, the
project would include preparation of a follow-up research
and extension operation and studies, to be carried out by
INAF, for preparation of a third irrigation rehabilita-
tion project for possible Bank financing. The project
faces no special risks but the effectiveness of the
research and extension service to be created will depend
on the Government's future commitment to its support and
the adequacy of agriculture sector policies. At present,
both the degree of commitment and sector policies are
satisfactory.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
-----US$ millions-----
A.  Research Activities                             12.5      10.7      23.2
(i) Civil Works                                  2.5       1.6       4.1
(ii) Vehicles, Equipment and Incremental
Costs                                     9.4       6.2      15.6
(iii) Consultants'Services and Training            0.6       2.9       3.5
B.  Extension Activities                            16.9       8.8      25.7
(i) Civil Works                                  2.2       1.5       3.7
(ii) Vehicles, Equipment and
Incremental Costs                          14.1       6.1      20.2
(iii) Consultants' Services and Training           0.6       1.2       1.8
C.  INIPA Administration and Services                5.6       9.4      15.0
(i) Planning                                     1.3       0.5       1.8
(ii) Statistical Services                         0.4       0.5       0.9
(iii) Documentation and Training Center            2.2       1.4       3.6
(iv) Technical Assistance
and Project Preparation                      1.7      7.0       8.7
Base Cost                              35.0      28.9      63.9
D.  Physical Contingencies                           1.5       1.1       2.6
E.  Price Contingencies                              9.2       7.6      16.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     45.7      37.6      83.3
F.  Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                        -        0.6       0.6
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED               45.7      38.2      83.9
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
-----US$ millions…-----
Government                                      43.3      ---      43.3
World Bank                                       2.4      38.2      40.6
TOTAL                                     45.7      38.2      83.9



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                           1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
(US$ millions by Bank FY)
1/
Annual              5.4   14.5    6.7    6.0    5.0    3.0
Cumulative          5.4   19.9   26.6   32.6   37.6   40.6
Rate of Return:        About 21 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report               Staff Appraisal Report No. 3789-PE, dated April 12,
1982.
1/ Includes US$0.6 million as a capitalized front-end fee.
.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$40.6 million to help finance
an agricultural research and extension project. The loan includes a
capitalized standard front-end fee and would have a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum. The
Government would transfer the loan's proceeds, free of charges and repayment
obligations, to the beneficiaries, the National Institute for Agriculture and
Livestock Research (INIPA) and the National Institute for Expansion of the
Agricultural Frontier (INAF).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1,
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa.  There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions. Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is
expected to remain the major energy source in Peru through the rest of this
century. Peru's domestic oil production more than doubled between
1/   This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the Lima
Water Supply Project President's Report of April 22, 1982
(Report No. P3280-PE).



- 2 -
1977 and 1981 to over 190,000 barrels per day (BD), and it became a net
exporter of about 60,000 BD.  To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum
exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated secondary
recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of rational
pricing policies to contain demand growth.   Prices for domestically consumed
petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals. In addition,
new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to domestic and
foreign investors, and the response has been positive. The Government
strategy is already bearing fruit with petroleum output expected to increase
in 1982 to an average level of 207,000 BD.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period.  Since the
early 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the
urbanization process and improved education. But with declining death rates,
population has continued to grow at about 2.7 percent p.a. and is currently
estimated at about 17 million.  It is expected that population growth will
fall only slightly to about 2.4 percent p.a. over the next 20 years, unless
an effective population control policy is adopted. The Government is
conscious of the need to slow down Peru's demographic growth rate and is now
developing a primary health care program which would contain a family
planning component. The urban population is increasing at 4.3 percent p.a.,
and about a quarter of all Peruvians live in the Lima area. Given the
structure of Peru's population, the labor force is expected to grow in excess
of three percent per year during the next 20 years.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth, not only between
individuals but also between regions. The pattern of asset ownership in the
economy changed drastically through nationalization and a sweeping land
reform. The Government took direct control of key economic sectors and
imposed complex legislation to control the private sector. Many of the
policies carried out after 1968 had an excessive cost, and their implementa-
tion was inefficient.
8.         Between 1968 and 1977, Peru's Governments followed expansionary
fiscal and credit policies. As a result, aggregate demand considerably
exceeded aggregate supply resulting in strong inflationary pressures and
widening external gaps. Inflation accelerated from five percent per year in
1970 to 38 percent in 1977. Interest rates, however, remained substantially
negative in real terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating
capital flight. Moreover, the exchange rate remained practically constant
between 1968 and 1975, thus contributing to the overall disequilibrium.
9.       The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of pay-
ments. The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in
1974-77, equivalent to nearly nine percent of GNP. To finance this deficit,
Peru accumulated a massive external debt, which at year-end 1977 stood at
almost US$8.4 billion (including short-term indebtedness), equivalent to
two-thirds of GDP and almost four times annual exports of goods and
non-factor services.



- 3 -
10.        Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion, during which GDP
grew by more than six percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. In this two-year period, GDP per
capita dropped by over six percent, and unemployment and underemployment rose
to almost 60 percent of the labor force, up from less than 50 percent during
the early 1970s.
Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
II.        From 1975 on, several unsuccessful attempts were made to cope with
Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic crisis had
reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation approaching
100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was finding it
increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports, and the
banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative level
of US$800 million.
12.        Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF in support of the stabilization program. Peru's
debt outstanding to the IMF as of December 31, 1981 amounted to SDR 578.9
million.
13.        Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club and
with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce the
debt service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1
billion to the 1982-1986 period. In view of the strong balance of payments
performance in 1979 and 1980 (para. 15), the Government decided to forego
parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better conditions
for new loans from commercial sources.
14.        To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition
to the above-mentioned stablization actions, included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by
broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource alloca-
tion in the 'private and public sectors. These policy changes-- together with
a declining domestic market because of the recession-- resulted in a major
reorientation of industrial development, with a large increase in the value
of manufactured exports from about US$200 million in 1977 to the US$750-800
million range in 1980-81 (equivalent to about eight percent of output). The
Government also drew up a public sector investment program that aimed at
redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic priority and with
positive effects on production and employment. In support of the ERP, the
Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in May 1979.
15.        The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979.
Public sector current account savings rose from -0.5 percent of GDP in 1978
to about 3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall deficit was reduced from
5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979. In spite of Peru's
improved fiscal performance, inflationary pressures remained strong with a
consumer price increase of 67 percent in 1979. The more careful management
of public finances also had a positive impact on the balance of payments.
Moreover, an increase in petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of
Peru's terms of trade contributed to high overall surpluses of the balance



- 4 -
of payments in 1979 and 1980.  At year-end 1980, the net reserve position had
improved to about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to about 4 months of imports.
Peru also made greater use of assistance from official bilateral and
international sources, thus improving the structure of its external debt.
Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in 1980, however, growth
dropped to 3.1 percent owing, in part, to a drought which affected the
agricultural sector. Because of a relaxation in fisical descipline, the
public sector deficit also increased in 1980 to six percent of GDP, keeping
inflation for the year at a high level -- 59 percent.
Recent Developments and Outlook
16.        In July 1979, the Military Government promulgated a new
constitution, written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections
were held in May 1980, and following his electoral victory, President
Fernando Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a
challenging economic and social situation with a number of acute problems
which had been disguised by the apparently solid financial situation. These
included: high levels of under- and unemployment, particularly in urban
areas; higher underlying inflation than had been reported because of price
controls and deferred price adjustments for public goods and services; a
public sector deficit that had been reduced by freezing expenditures for
economic and social services (including education, health and housing),
combined with a rigid expenditure structure which did not leave much margin
for any significant reallocation of funds to these and other high priority
areas; a balance of payments situation which showed a substantial surplus,
but which was partly due to high commodity prices and to the fact that import
levels were depressed; and, finally, deteriorated income distribution over
the past several years resulting in increased social unrest.
17.        The Government named an economic team committed to economic
efficiency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of some of the
State-owned enterprises), promotion of the private sector (including foreign
investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable sharing of the benefits
of development through job creation and specifically targeted social
programs.   Its reliance on, and promotion of, private initiative, in
particular, distinguish the present Government's philosophy and economic
program from that of its immediate predecessors.
18.        The Government has made important headway in a number of areas.
It was successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating
non-tariff barriers and lowering tariffs. At the same time, export
incentives were streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make the
system more responsive to exports of products with high manufactured
content. The Government also enacted new legislation for the agricultural,
mining and petroleum sectors offering greater financial incentives to
investors. Finally, it made significant institutional changes in the
financial sector, revised the interest rate structure through substantial
upward adjustments, and is preparing a new banking law which would allow
further rationalization and liberalization of the financial system.
19.        In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made progress
in correcting major price distortions.  Food subsidies were greatly reduced
and most controlled agricultural prices were adjusted to international
levels. The marketing of agricultural products was liberalized, and public
utility and petroleum prices were adjusted at regular intervals. Moreover,
the Government endeavored to rationalize public investment and its financing
-- an effort that was supported by a Bank sponsored Consultative Group
meeting in May 1981.



- 5 -
20.       The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen
public sector institutions. The important public enterprise sector, for
example, was granted greater autonomy by transforming these enterprises into
State-owned limited liability corporations operating under private law.  This
measure gives these companies, inter alia, greater freedom in fixing staff
compensation and, thus, helps them to recruit or to retain capable
personnel. Many of the above measures have already had positive short-term
effects, and they have laid the ground for medium-term structural adjustments
of the Peruvian economy.
21.       In spite of the above policy initiatives, economic performance in
1981 lagged behind expectations. GDP grew only at about four percent, and
employment generation was also sluggish. The balance of payments
deteriorated substantially as a result of declining export prices, high
interest rates on the country's debt with commercial banks, and a rapid
expansion of imports. The loss in net reserves amounted to about US$700
million, equivalent to about three percent of GDP. A major factor in the
deterioration of the balance of payments was the large public sector deficit
which reached about eight percent of GDP. On the positive side, some
progress was achieved in reducing inflation: while inflation on a December
1980-December 1981 basis reached 73 percent, during May-December 1981 it
decelerated to an annual rate of about 50 percent, mostly because of the
openness of the economy, the price dampening effects of an increase in
imports, and--to some extent--to a deceleration of the mini-devaluations.
The Government is aware that this level is still too high, however, and is
following actions which it expects will result in a further drop in inflation
in 1982.
22.       Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the
major challenge facing Peru's economic managers. While the deteriorated
export situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the deficit is
mostly the result of steep increases in expenditures and somewhat lagging
adjustments of petroleum and rice prices.  Excess expenditures over initial
budget allocations were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser
priority. To tackle the difficult public finance situation, the Government
is drawing up a restrictive financial program for 1982 with tight credit
ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness. It is also expected that the
Government will trim the public investment program in line with its
investment priorities.  The Bank has an ongoing and frank dialogue with the
Peruvian Government on these issues. Moreover, it is expected that the IMF
will consider a sizeable EFF in the near future to support Peru's
stabilization efforts.
23.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, through medium term the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 4-5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation. Peru's balance of payments could, however, become precarious if
the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures are being undertaken
to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured exports, the
results of these endeavors may not come in time to countervail the potential
foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is a continuing
need for official development assistance. Taking the above factors into
account, considering an expected debt service ratio hovering around the 35
percent mark and assuming that the authorities continue the initiated course
of economic policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
24.       The Bank has approved 46 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,058.7 million, net of cancellations. About 35 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports),
17 percent for agriculture, 16 percent for the energy sector, 17 percent for
mining and industry, about four percent for education and urban development
and 11 percent for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursement status as of March 31, 1982 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As of this date, US$440 million was undisbursed.
Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of
counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this
period. Disbursements have improved, however, with vigorous efforts by the
Bank and Government to correct the situation by, inter alia, (i) opening a
Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv)
Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution and
resolve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit. About
US$44 million was disbursed on project loans in FY80 and US$70.5 million
during FY81. This compares with average yearly disbursements of US$27.5
million during FY77-79.
26.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strenghening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of local capacity
to prepare, implement and operate projects effectively; and (iv) the improve-
ment of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank
lending concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power
sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly
productive fields--mining, petroleum, agriculture and industry--to help Peru
to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending for social projects has also
grown and will be further stepped up in the future. As part of its assis-
tance strategy, the Bank convened a Consultative Group Meeting for Peru on
May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government arrange financing for its public
investment program. The next operations that would be ready for the
Executive Directors' consideration include projects in petroleum production
and power.  These would be followed by projects in rural development, health,
education and housing. The Bank is also considering a loan to help
strengthen public sector management.
27.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 5.8 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980, and
absorbed about 2.6 percent of the country's public external debt service in
1980. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign
debt by 1985 could reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt-service
would be around 4.5 percent.



- 7 -
28.       IFC commitments as of March 31, 1982 were US$37.3 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$18.9 million is held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1982 is
presented in Annex II.  In addition, a palm oil project was recently
approved, and a venture capital company is now being considered.
29.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for Interna-
tional Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31, 1981
were US$849 million and US$348.8 million, respectively, and their shares of
public debt service as of end-1980 were estimated at 0.6 percent and 0.5
percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is expected to emphasize
lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and small scale irriga-
tion. USAID is expected to stress rural development and health.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Land and Water Resources
30.       Peru has a limited natural resource base for agriculture.  Of the
country's total land area of 1,285,000 km2, only about 3.7 million ha or 2.9
percent is arable and another 17 percent is natural pastureland. Additional
land could be brought into production but only at a high cost--either by
expensive new coastal irrigation schemes or by providing basic infrastructure
for more remote areas, mainly in the Ceja de Selva, the jungle highlands in
the Amazon region east of the Andes.
31.       Of the country's three principal regions, the 130,000 km2 Costa,
which consists mainly of desert terrain, is the major agricultural area.
Agriculture in the Costa is limited to river valleys, and most of Peru's one
million irrigated hectares are located in this zone. Most irrigation and
drainage systems, however, are old and inefficient, and the Bank is currently
financing two irrigation rehabilitation projects (Lns. 1403-PE of 1977 and
1771-PE of 1980 -- see para. 53). Where water is available, conditions are
generally favorable for high crop production because of good soils and near
optimal solar radiation and temperatures. Farmers in this region are more
technically advanced and tend to use more production inputs and credit than
farmers in other zones. The area also enjoys relatively close proximity to
the main urban markets and a good transportation network. As a result of
these conditions, productivity per hectare as well as incomes in the Costa
are the highest in the country.  This region produces over 40 percent of the
country's crops, including the major export crops--sugar and cotton--as well
as rice, maize, potatoes, citrus crops, olives and grapes.
32.       The Sierra consists of rugged mountains and high valleys.  Of the
zone's 335,000 km2 about seven percent are farmed and 43 percent are used for
grazing.  The Sierra has about half the arable crop land in Peru, but--
because of the difficult topography, the severe climate and generally
primitive farming techniques--productivity is low and there is little scope
for putting new land into production. Most agricultural production is for
subsistence, andthere is little use of fertilizers or other inputs. There is
a potential, however, for improving crop and livestock productivity through
research, extension and the increased use of production inputs.



33.       The sparsely settled Selva region east of the Andes accounts for 64
percent of the total land area. The region has abundant water, since Peru's
major river systems flow through the area and rainfall is high, but soils are
generally poor, particularly in the lower Selva. In the Ceja de Selva, soils
are of better quality, and agricultural and livestock development has begun.
Arable land in this zone is estimated at 4.5 million ha of which 600,000 ha
are currently being exploited. Fruits, coffee and tea are the main crops,
although there is good potential for livestock, rice and oil palm in some
areas. Development has been hampered, however, by poor transport and other
infrastructure. The Government has begun to give priority to development
projects in this area, since it offers one of the few prospects for expanding
the agricultural frontier. The recently approved Eighth Highway Loan (Ln
2091-PE of February, 1982) is supporting this effort with financing to
improve road access to the Ceja de Selva.
Agricultural Sector Performance and Government Policies
34.       The agricultural sector in Peru underwent a major decline
during the 1970s. In part, this was due to a serious drought from 1978-80,
but the sector's poor performance was brought about primarily by negative
Government policies. These included: (i) an agricultural pricing policy
which did not provide adequate incentives to producers; (ii) imposition of an
inefficient State-run marketing system; (iii) failure to effectively organize
and manage agrarian reform enterprises; (iv) insufficient credit and the
dismantling of the extension and research support services for the sector;
(v) a requirement that food crops be grown in place of non-food export crops,
primarily cotton, for which Peru enjoys a comparative advantage; (vi) the
concentration of public investment in large-scale coastal irrigation projects
with very long gestation periods; and (vii) insecurity of land tenure owing
to a far-reaching land reform.
35.       In 1980, agriculture contributed about 11 percent to Peru's GDP and
employed more than 40 percent of the labor force, as compared with 15 and 48
percent, respectively, in 1970. The value of food production in constant
prices increased by an average of 0.7 percent per annum during this period.
The value of crop production actually declined at an average annual rate of
-0.6 percent in the 1970s, while livestock production increased at 3.3
percent, largely because of the rapid growth of the poultry industry. During
the same period, population grew at an average of 2.9 percent per annum. As
a result, nutritional standards suffered, and the country's dependence on
imported foodstuffs increased.
36.      The volume of food imports--consisting mainly of wheat, rice and
other grains, dairy products and vegetable oils--increased by a total of over
20 percent between the early 1970s and 1980. At the same time, agriculture's
contribution to exports--which came mainly from sugar, cotton and
coffee--fell dramatically toward the end of this period. By 1980, the volume
of major agriculture exports stood at only about 22 percent of the 1970
level. In spite of these trends, Peru continued to maintain a positive
though shrinking balance of trade in agriculture through the 1970s. The
deficit in 1980-81, however, totaled about US$300 million.



- 9 -
37.       By the late 1970s, the military Government had recognized the
gravity of the problems facing the agricultural sector and the potential long
term economic and social impact of its decline. It began, therefore, intro-
ducing measures to reverse this trend. Consumer price subsidies on most
products were reduced or eliminated, the requirement that food crops be grown
was eased, and the rebuilding of agricultural service agencies began. The
Belaunde Government has accelerated this effort. It has eliminated remaining
consumer subsidies except for a subsidy on rice which is now being phased
out.  Export taxes have been reduced substantially and are scheduled to be
fully phased-out by 1983. An agricultural promotion law was passed in 1980,
which: (i) concludes the agrarian reform expropriation process (paras. 39-
42); (ii) permits the mortgaging of agricultural land to facilitate increased
commercial credit; (iii) provides selected tax incentives to investment; (iv)
permits the private import and export of most agricultural products and
inputs; and (v) opens up marketing to private participation (although some
restrictions still remain). Finally, the Government has reorganized and
strengthened sectoral institutions to improve the provision of services and
the execution of projects (paras. 43-46).
38.       These actions have had a significant impact on agricultural produc-
tion. With the end of the drought, the easing of regulations requiring the
growing of food and an increase in producer prices close to international
levels, cotton production increased by almost 80 percent between 1978 and
1980. Preliminary figures indicate that in 1981 agricultural output grew by
over 12 percent, with production increases of 67 percent in rice, 38 percent
in corn and 21 percent in potatoes.
Agrarian Reform
39.       The most important factor influencing agricultural production in
Peru in the 1970s was the agrarian reform enacted in June 1969, which
affected all farms larger than the equivalent of 50 ha of irrigated land on
the Costa. By February 1980, 11.6 million ha of land in about 16,500 farms
had been expropriated by Government under the land reform programs; this
represented 48 percent of the total land in agriculture in Peru. An area of
8.9 million ha was distributed to almost 400,000 families; these represented
less than a quarter of the rural population. Although about eight percent of
expropriated land was adjudicated to individual families, most large estates
were distributed intact to various forms of cooperative agrarian reform
enterprises (AREs), generally consisting of more than 2,000 ha per unit.
This was true of the large coastal sugar and cotton estates, as well as the
cattle and sheep ranches in the Sierra. The balance of the expropriated land
*           (2.7 million ha) remains under State control for possible future adjudica-
tion, State forestation programs or other public use.
40.       During the 1970s, the military Government concentrated most of the
financial and manpower resources made available to agriculture on the
agrarian reform. Credit went largely to AREs, and the Government's previous
research and extension operation was dismantled to provide manpower to carry
out the agrarian reform process. After the AREs were set-up, the little
research and extension capacity left was devoted to servicing them.



- 10 -
41.       While the agrarian reform succeeded in instituting a more equitable
distribution of agricultural land in Peru, it was accompanied by low levels
of investment owing to the instability of land tenure which the program
created. The land reform also caused many of Peru's most technically
sophisticated farmers to leave agriculture. These factors--coupled with the
negative impact of Government policies summarized in para. 34 and the poor
organization, management and lack of cooperative spirit in the new AREs--were
a significant cause of declining production. In an effort to correct ARE
problems, the Government is requiring improved management as a condition for
providing them with assistance and credit. It is also preparing a
rehabilitation project for the sugar AREs, with assistance from a US$500,000
Bank Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance. On AREs in the Sierra,
Government efforts and generous financial support have not been successful in
inducing most farmers to participate fully in the cooperatives, and they
continue to work their individual plots. Some AREs in this region have
already disbanded, and more are likely to follow.
42.       Even though the agrarian reform improved the lot of its
beneficiaries, the approximately 78 percent of the rural population not
benefited by the agrarian reform is probably worse-off than before. For
landless workers, employment opportunities on the large cooperative farms
have become more scarce, and the small farmers have been neglected in the
provision of Government support services. The Government is now trying to
rectify this situation by strengthening support services for smallholders.
The research and extension project recommended in this report is a major
element in this strategy.
Institutional Framework
43.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) is generally responsible for
formulating the Government's sectoral policies and programs. Under a 1981
reorganization, the task of carrying out of public sector agricultural and
rural development programs was made the responsibility of: (i) four
administratively autonomous institutes under the MA; (ii) a number of
independent project authorities which administer major irrigation projects;
(iii) departmental development corporations which are responsible for
small-scale local projects; and (iv) special project units located in the
Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, which prepare and carry
out integrated rural development projects for the Ceja de Selva area.
44.       Of the four institutes, the most important are the National
Institute for Agricultural and Livestock Research and Extension (INIPA) and
the National Institute for Expansion of the Agricultural Frontier (INAF).
The others are the forestry and agroindustry institutes.  INIPA has
responsibility for agricultural research, extension, farm mechanization and
rural marketing development (paras. 47-50). INAF plans and carries out
national irrigation development and rehabilitation programs, land development
in the Selva and Ceja de Selva, and some medium-size irrigation projects.
INAF is also responsible for insuring that irrigation projects, even those
which it does not directly undertake, are technically well-designed and
economically justified.



- 11 -
45.       Specialized services to the sector are provided by a public
marketing company and the Agrarian Bank of Peru (BAP) which is the main
source of agricultural credit. The marketing company has a monopoly on
marketing rice, cotton and fertilizers and on importing grains and powdered
milk. These monopoly operations are now being phased out, although the
Government will retain a presence in marketing as a check on private
traders. The BAP is a Government-owned institution with branches in all
parts of the country. It provides about 85 percent of the institutional
credit to the agriculture sector with the balance coming mostly from
commercial banks and State development banks. In 1980, BAP's loan portfolio
was about US$350 million, but this represented only 80 percent of the 1975
portfolio in real terms and was not sufficient to meet the sector's needs.
Between 70 and 80 percent of BAP annual lending is short term production
credit, and--in 1980--64 percent of its new loans went to cooperatives,
almost 36 percent to farmers with more than 20 ha and less than one percent
to small farmers. Since 1980, BAP's lending has been expanding, reflecting
the increased Government priority for the sector. It has also begun to give
more attention to small farmers. A recent US$30 million IDB loan to finance
individual farmer lending will help ensure that this trend continues.
46.       The Government is now moving to strengthen the institutional
structure described above. Priority is being given to building up INIPA and
INAF. Both these entities were converted from pre-existing MA departments
into administratively autonomous institutes to improve the efficiency of
their operations. They have a core staff and are now in the process of
recruiting additional managerial and technical personnel. Their salary
scales have been increased to help attract and retain qualified personnel.
The proposed research and extension project would include substantial
technical assistance for INIPA, and the Government has also sought technical
assistance in selected areas from USAID and the IDB.  INAF is not as advanced
in building up its organization, but it is receiving technical assistance
from the IDB and from Bank staff.
Research and Extension
47.       In 1979, the Government began making efforts to reestablish its
research and extension service by creating several new institutions, which in
1981 were combined to form INIPA. INIPA has created 18 regional agricultural
and livestock research and extension centers (CIPAs) covering the entire
country.  The CIPAs administer all extension activities for cooperatives and
small farmers (with under 20 ha) in their areas, while larger farmers depend
on private technical assistance services. The CIPAs are also responsible for
administering the research programs in their areas.  Most CIPAs cover one
department of Peru but in some cases, where efficient delivery of services
permits it, some CIPAs are responsible for more than one department. About
900 extension workers have been transferred from the MA to INIPA, and the
latter is now beginning to train these staff with assistance from a US$1.0
million Bank PPF advance approved in February 1982, which is helping to
finance the initiation of activities under the proposed project. INIPA
expects to have sufficient trained staff in place to form the nucleus of an
improved extension service by mid-1982. The project recommended in this
report would include assistance to strengthen INIPA, and a major investment
program to provide facilities, vehicles and supporting services would be
carried out under the proposed project for the CIPAs covering the northern
Departments of Peru in order to support expanded extension activities
(para. 55).



- 12 -
48.       The "training and visit" (T and V) extension technique would be
utilized by INIPA. This consists of a system of regularly programmed
fortnightly visits by extension agents to selected "contact" farmers who
would be the main link with about ten neighboring farmers with similar
resources. With a carefully scheduled program of five-six visits per day,
the agent could, with good farmer cooperation, assist about 400
individuals on a continuous basis. Extension workers would also make
occasional visits to deal with specific farmer problems and spend one day a
week in in-service training with specialists in various subject matters.
With the assistance of consultants financed under the Bank's PPF advance,
INIPA is now developing a farm system analysis capacity that will enable it
to make its research and extension programs more relevant to actual farm
problems and resources and, thus, promote the utilization of research results
by farmers. Under this approach, agents would be taught how to take into
account all factors bearing on the adoption of improved practices (e.g.,
access to credit, farmer attitude to risk, competition with other crops).
49.       In addition to its extension activities, 17 research stations and
27 substations located throughout the country and 600 professional research
staff have been transferred to INIPA by the MA. The programs now underway at
these stations (mainly devoted to cereals, potatoes, soybean, cotton, pasture
improvement, animal breeding and soil and water management) would continue.
There is a need, however, to improve the quality of research and establish
new research stations so as to cover all of Peru's main agro-ecological zones
and commodities. Also, additional graduate specialists are needed at all
experimental stations, and there are shortages of vehicles and equipment as
well as library and scientific information sources. The proposed project
would begin to address these needs.
50.       Through its extension and research activities, INIPA will be
responsible for distributing improved seed and breeding livestock. INIPA
would also promote the increased use of fertilizers and plant protection
materials, both of which are generally available. Finally, INIPA has been
given responsibility for providing farm machinery services to small farmers
and promoting the development of rural marketing systems. Its activities in
these areas, however, have not yet been defined. The proposed project would
include studies to determine whether there is an appropriate role for INIPA
in these activities and, if so, what its role should be.
Sectoral Investment Strategy
51.       The Government's sectoral investment strategy as reflected in its
1981-1985 public investment program is (i) to continue development and
rehabilitation of irrigated coastal areas where the potential for increases
in production is great and there is a large sunk investment in irrigation
infrastructure; (ii) to begin to develop the potentially rich Ceja de Selva;
and (iii) to assist the rural poor, particularly in the Sierra, through rural
development projects.   The Government is also committed to building up its
agricultural credit and research and extension programs to provide better
support to the agriculture sector.



- 13 -
Previous Bank Operations
52.        In order to help spur Peru's agricultural development, the Bank has
made 12 loans to Peru totalling US$178.4 million. Five of them, in the
1954-1973 period and totalling US$55.0 million, were for agricultural credit
and were channelled through BAP (105-PE, 162-PE, 257-PE, 415-PE and 933-PE).
In general, BAP's performance has been good. The Performance Audit Report
(Sec M81-465 of June 2, 1981) for the fifth project (Ln 933-PE of 1973)
concluded that the project's rate of return exceeded that estimated in the
appraisal report (30 percent vs 26 percent). It noted, however, that the
Bank failed to use the loan as an effective instrument in credit policy issue
discussions (e.g., interest rate levels) with the Government.  Processing of
a sixth loan has been held in abeyance while efforts have continued to reach
a mutually satisfactory agreement on interest rates. Also, the fifth project
suffered from the deterioration of the research and extension services in the
1970s. The proposed research and extension project represents the first real
effort to rebuild these services.
53.        Two loans (67-PE of 1952 and 98-PE of 1954), totalling US$3
million, were for farm machinery imports. Another two (Loans 114-PE of 1955
and 418-PE of 1965), totalling US$24.4 million, financed irrigation works and
land settlement in the San Lorenzo area within the Chira-Piura basin. The
Performance Audit Report (Sec M78-43 of January 18, 1978) for the San Lorenzo
project financed by Ln 418-PE concluded that the project achieved its basic
goals of increasing agricultural production and the incomes of rural poor.
The audit noted, however, the need for provision of better maintenance of
works, of a strong project unit, and agricultural support programs for
irrigation projects. These findings were taken into account in the design of
the two most recent Bank-financed irrigation rehabilitation operations: the
First Irrigation Rehabilitation project and the Lower Piura project (Loans
1403-PE of 1977 and 1771-PE of 1979 for US$25 and US$56 million,
respectively). Finally, in 1980 the Bank approved its first rural
development loan, a US$15 million operation for the Puno zone in the Sierra.
The status of Bank-financed agricultural projects currently in execution is
discussed in Annex II.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.        This project was identified in March 1981 and was prepared by INIPA
with assistance from a Bank-financed consultant. Appraisal took place in
October 1981. The appraisal mission's report, entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report - Peru Agricultural Research and Extension Project" (No. 3789-PE dated
April 12, 1982), is being distributed separately.  Annex III contains a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations were held in Washington from
April 5-6, 1982. The Peruvian Delegation was headed by Mr. Alexander
Grobman, Head of INIPA.
Project Objectives
55.        The objective of the project is to rebuild Peru's agricultural
research and extension services so as to help increase the productivity and
improve living conditions of Peru's farmers. This would be accomplished
through a program to provide support to INIPA at the national level and to
strengthen the research and extension system in the five northern CIPAs of
Peru which service the departments of Piura, Tumbes, Lambayeque, Cajamarca,



- 14 -
La Libertad and Ancash. These CIPAs were selected by INIPA for support under
the project because: (i) in a contiguous area they cover the three main
Peruvian agro-ecological zones; and (ii) they represent one of Peru's most
important agricultural areas, with 40 percent of the country's cultivated
land (1.4 million ha) and over 45 percent of the value of its agricultural
and livestock production. Techniques and practices proven effective in this
area should be replicable throughout Peru. The population of this northern
area is five million. There are 445,000 farm families of which 320,000 have
individual properties and 125,000 belong to AREs. The average individual
farm size is 2.5 ha, while AREs average five ha per family. About 70 percent
of the farm families live in the Sierra, 28 percent in the Costa and two
percent in the Selva--mostly in the Ceja de Selva.  The main crops are
cotton, rice, sugar cane, corn, potatoes, wheat and beans. Most of the
country's cotton and sugar come from this area, and livestock and poultry
production are also important.
Project Description
56.        The Project would consist of:
A.   Strengthening INIPA's Research Program:
1. Nationwide, by providing: (a) ten internationally
recruited scientists for three years each to reinforce on-going
research programs for major commodities and specific scientific
disciplines, to introduce a farm system analysis capacity, to
enhance research organization, and to upgrade expertise of research
staff; (b) 19 staff-months of internationally recruited consultant
services for specific research studies which pertain to commodities
produced in the project area; and (c) studies by approved Peruvian
institutions contracted by INIPA for specific research projects.
2. For the five CIPAs, by (a) constructing facilities for
seven new and 11 existing research stations; and (b) providing
about 75 vehicles, machinery, equipment and incremental salaries
and operating costs for the expanded research program; and
(c),providing local and overseas training of research staff and
library services.
B.   Strengthening INIPA's Extension Program:
1. Nationwide, by providing: (a) 30 staff-years of internationally
recruited consultants to introduce the T and V system in the
extension program; and (b) training of extension staff in
programmed extension activities with emphasis on the T and V
system, and in technical subjects.
2. For the five CIPAs, by (a) constructing their headquarters
buildings and about 80 other office/dwelling facilities for the
extension services; (b) providing about 650 vehicles, equipment and
incremental staff salaries and the operating expenses for the
expanded extension program; (c) funding training and library
services; and (d) developing an agricultural credit promotion/
assistance program following a study to be organized by an interna-
tionally recruited credit specialist in cooperation with BAP at the
national level.



- 15 -
C.   Strengthening INIPA's National Level Administration, Planning and
Support Services by:
1. Reinforcing its planning department with additional staff and
equipment and adding Monitoring and Evaluation, Engineering
Planning Service and Project Management Units, including vehicles,
equipment, training, incremental salaries and operating costs and
about 33 staff-months consulting services for these units;
2. Constructing a documentation and training center for INIPA and
setting up a computing and statistical service. This component
includes equipment, training, incremental salaries and operating
expenses and 18 staff-months of consulting services for these
activities; and
3. Providing: (a) 60 staff-months of consulting services for
rural agricultural marketing and machinery service studies and for
preparation of a follow-up research and extension project, and (b)
40 staff-months of internationally recruited consulting services to
help prepare through INAF the engineering and technical studies for
a third irrigation rehabilitation project for possible Bank
financing.
57.       Research Program.  This component would represent 36 percent of
total project cost. The ten research scientists to be recruited would,
together with their local counterparts, help develop or improve programs for
the following: rice, corn, wheat, pulses, potatoes, cotton, pasture and
livestock, soil and water management, plant protection and farm system
analysis. Most of these ten scientists would be recruited through the three
Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) centers in
Latin America. Each CGIAR center would provide technical support for these
scientists and would thus assist INIPA in the development of work programs in
each commodity/discipline. These scientists would be appointed by April 30,
1983 (Section 3.03 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The selection,
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment of these scientists, as
well as of the other consultants and experts provided under the project would
be in line with Bank guidelines (Section 3.03 (a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The national research program would be supported by up to 19
staff-months of internationally recruited consultants' services and up to
US$250,000 per annum in contracts with local research institutions (primarily
universities) to study specific problems. The institutions selected to
provide such services and their contracts would require the approval of the
Bank (Section 3.06 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       With the construction of seven new research stations in the five
project CIPAs, the total number of stations in the northern region would be
increased to 20. The research scientists to be recruited through the CGIAR
centers would, among their duties, help design the future research programs
of the project CIPAs. These programs would, in turn, provide the basis for a
master plan to identify the future development requirements for CIPA research
facilities. INIPA would, by August 31, 1983, prepare such a master plan
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). Also, so as to prevent INIPA
from spreading the CIPAs' manpower and financial resources too thin, no
stations additional to those currently established in the five CIPAs and to
be constructed under the project would be built unless a justification
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank had been presented (Section 3.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
59.       The professional and technical research staffs of the five project
CIPAs have been increased from about 110 to about 260, which is sufficient
for purposes of the project. Emphasis would be given under the project to
upgrading staff quality, particularly for--but not limited to--the project
CIPAs, through in-service training and graduate education. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would provide the Bank by
December 31, 1982 with a policy statement, satisfactory to the Bank, on a
system of granting salary increments to INIPA staff. This policy would
reflect the intentions to provide incentives for effective performance to
achieve INIPA's goals and to attract and retain high-calibre staff. INIPA's
annual program of scholarships of one academic year or longer would be
subject to Bank approval (Section 3.06 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).                   *
Initially, training courses in farm system analysis would concentrate on the
Sierra, which has been most neglected by Government programs in the past.
60.       Extension Program.  This component would represent about 40 percent
of total project cost. In preparation for the initiation of the project, the
number of extension workers and other professional and technical staff in the
five project CIPAs have been increased from about 350 to about 590, and addi-
tional staff would be added in the future. Staff training in T and V metho-
dology, part of which is being financed by the US$1.0 million PPF advance
(para 47), has been initiated prior to negotiations. This methodology would
be used to provide  extension services to farmers with from 1-20 ha.  Through
this system, about 350 extension agents in the project CIPAs would directly
service 16,000-17,000 principal contact farmers and about 115,000 additional
farmers. Farmers with less than one ha would receive technical support from
mass media programs and contact with other farmers. Cooperatives would be
serviced by 15-20 university trained extension officers assigned exclusively
to this role. Farmers with over 20 ha would largely rely on technical advice
provided by private consultants. Of the 650 vehicles to be procured under
the project, about 400 would be motorcycles to be acquired during the first
three-four years of the project so that each extension agent would have
transport. The remaining vehicles would be used by the administrative, tech-
nical, monitoring and evaluation and credit staff of the CIPAs.
61.       Because the existing credit delivery system for farmers with under
20 ha is weak, each CIPA, nationwide, would have an agricultural credit
specialist at headquarters and credit officers in each zone of the CIPA. An
internationally recruited credit coordinator would be contracted for three
years to train personnel and organize the credit assistance program.  This
expert would also design and coordinate a study, to be carried out in
cooperation with BAP, of credit usage, delivery systems and the promotion of
credit for small-holders.  By December 31, 1982, INIPA would appoint a credit
coordinator with qualifications and under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 3.03 (b) (iv) of the draft Loan Agreement). Within five
months from the date of appointment of the credit coordinator, the credit
study would be initiated and a cooperation agreement would be signed with BAP
providing for its participation in the study and in the coordination with
INIPA of the credit program for each of the project CIPAs (Sections 3.01 (c)
and 3.03 (b) (iv) of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       INIPA's Administration, Planning and Support Services.  This compo-
nent would represent about 24 percent of total project costs. INIPA's
Planning Department is responsible for programming, coordinating and monitor-
ing INIPA's activities. It is being reinforced with the addition of an agri-
cultural economist, systems analyst, and accountant. Two architects would be



- 17 -
added to the Engineering Planning Services Unit, which would monitor the
consultants contracted to design and supervise civil works construction.  In
addition, a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit with supporting field staff at
each of Peru's 18 CIPAs is now being set up within the Planning Department to
carry out impact studies to determine the effectiveness of INIPA's research
and extension activities. This unit would be assisted by internationally
recruited consultants who would design and supervise an effective monitoring
system. Engineering Planning and Monitoring and Evaluation Units were
created prior to negotiations; they will be operated in accordance with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The staffing of the Engineering Unit
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 6.01 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement).  The Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit would be staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank by
December 31, 1982 (Section 3.02 (b) (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
63.       For purposes of the project, a Project Management Unit has been
established in the Planning Department. This Unit would be responsible for
planning and coordinating the execution of the Bank-financed project.
Appointment of a Project Manager with qualifications and under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       Under the project, computing and statistical services operations
would be established to support the research program and to handle INIPA's
accounting. Also, a Documentation and Training Center would be constructed
close to Lima, which would serve as INIPA's central library, be used for
short courses for professional staff and prepare mass media extension mate-
rial.
65.       Four staff-years of consultancies would be provided to determine
the most appropriate role (if any) for INIPA in providing agricultural
machinery services to small farmers and developing a marketing system for
agricultural produce in rural areas. In addition, one staff-year of tech-
nical assistance would be provided to prepare a follow up research and exten-
sion project. This work would cost about US$100,000. Finally, the project
would include about 40 staff-months of internationally recruited consultants
and topographical mapping for the preparation of a third irrigation rehabil-
itation project for possible Bank financing. About US$1.6 million of the
total cost of US$3.7 million would be financed under the proposed loan;
preparation would be carried out by the Special Project for Coastal
Irrigation Rehabilitation, a dependency of INAF, which is executing the First
Irrigation Rehabilitation project (Ln 1403-PE of 1977). The execution of an
*           agreement between the Government and INAF, satisfactory to the Bank, provid-
ing for the transfer of loan proceeds as well as counterpart funds, free of
charges and repayment obligations, for the carrying out of this activity
would be a condition of loan disbursement (Section 3.01 (b) and paragraph 4
of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
66.       The project (except for the INAF study) would be implemented by
INIPA over a five year period (1982-87). A condition of loan effectiveness
would be the execution of an agreement between INIPA and the Government
providing that INIPA would carry out the project and the Government would
make available to INIPA, free of charges and repayment obligations, the



corresponding proceeds of the loan and the counterpart funds required for the
project (Sections 3.01 (b) and 6.01 (b) of the draft Jloan Agreement).
INIPA's Project Management Unit, which would have primary responsibility for
supervising the execution of the project, would be assisted by a consultant
with experience in Bank operations to help in project start-up. This consul-
tant would be financed by the PPF advance referred to in para. 47. The Peie
advance is also financing design of civil works to insure prompt initiation
of the project.
67.       The Directors of the five project CIPAs would be responsible for
the administration of extension and research operations in their areas.
INIPA's Executive Directors for Research and Extension would have responsi-
bility for the design and technical aspects of these activities and would
liaise with the CIPA Directors in the execution of these programs.
68.       INIPA's Department of Technical Communications would be responsible
for administering the in-service and external training programs, as well as
the Documentation Center. All contracts with institutions for in-service
training courses financed under the proposed loan would be subject to Bank
approval. There would be an annual review of these contracts by the Bank and
INIPA and they would be renewed annually if the Bank and INIPA so agreed
(Section 3.06 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
69.       Total project cost is estimated at US$83.3 million (including
US$3.3 million in local taxes), of which US$37.6 million, or 45 percent
represents foreign costs. This cost estimate includes the project costs
being financed by the Bank's US$1.0 million PPF advance (para. 47). Physical
contingencies have been estimated at 15 percent for civil works, and five
percent for vehicles, equipment and incremental costs. Base costs are in
June 1981 values, and price contingencies have been calculated on the basis
of projected annual international price increases of 9.0 percent in 1981/82;
8.0 percent in 1982/83; 7.5 percent in 1983/85; 7.0 percent in 1985/86; and
6.0 percent in 1986/87. The proposed Bank loan of US$40.6 million would
cover 50 percent of project costs net of taxes (including all the foreign
exchange expenditures and US$2.4 million of local costs) and the capitalized
front-end fee of US$600,000. The Government would finance the US$43.3
million balance of project costs. The Bank loan would also refinance the
US$1.0 million PPF advance. Local cost financing is justified for this
operation in light of the tight fiscal situation the Government faces over
the next few years, the substantial role the Bank would play under this
project in the important task of reestablishing Peru's research and extension
system and the fact that 90 percent of the beneficiaries of the project would
be small farmers with under 20 ha.
70.       Total financing required for the project is US$83.9 million,
including a US$0.6 million capitalized front-end fee.
Procurement and Disbursement
71.       The proposed project includes about US$8.4 million in civil works.
Because of their relatively small size, none of the civil works contracts is



- 19 -
likely to be of interest to foreign contractors. Therefore, locally
advertised competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank would
be utilized, although foreign bidders could compete.
72.       Contracts for the vehicles to be procured under the project would
be let in accordance with international competitive bidding (ICB) following
Bank guidelines. The cost of this equipment is expected to total about US$3
million. Furniture and supplies are estimated to cost about US$1.3 million,
but these are locally produced and would not be attractive to foreign
bidders. Orders would be grouped where feasible. Packages of over
US$100,000 would be subject to LCB (although foreigners would be permitted to
bid).  Those below US$50,000--up to a maximum aggregate of US$250,000--would
be acquired through prudent shopping procedures in accordance with Government
regulations, which are acceptable to the Bank.
73.       Scientific and technical equipment and agricultural machinery
estimated to cost US$6.0 million, would be grouped in packages of over
US$100,000 to the extent possible. ICB would be used for packages over
US$100,000, which in the aggregate are expected to total over US$4 million
million. Packages between US$50,000 and US$100,000 would be acquired in
accordance with LCB, and purchases of under US$50,000 would be by prudent
shopping up to a maximum aggregate of US$150,000. However, as it would be
desirable that scientific and technical equipment be compatible with INIPA's
existing facilities for maintenance and servicing purposes, the Bank would
consider requests, on an individual item basis, for purchase through direct
negotiation of specified types of equipment up to a maximum aggregate of
US$600,000. Both domestic and regional preferences would apply to interna-
tional bidding for vehicles, scientific and technical equipment and agricul-
tural machinery. Local suppliers and those from Cartagena agreement member
countries (or any other regional trade agreement acceptable to the Bank of
which Peru is or may become a member) would be accorded a preference repre-
senting the difference between the prevailing duty actually applicable and
the duty applicable to goods imported from non-member countries, or 15 per-
cent on the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. The regional preference would
not be applied, however, if a domestic manufacturer was determined to be the
lower bidder after application of the domestic preference.
74.       A total of about 77 staff-years of internationally recruited con-
sultants' and experts' services would be required under the project. Consul-
tants providing architectural and engineering services, whose cost has been
estimated as a percentage of civil works rather than on a staff-month basis,
are available locally, and thus would not be internationally recruited. The
*        cost per staff-month of internationally recruited consultants and experts
(including fees, overhead, travel and subsistence) ranges from about US$8,500
to $9,500. The cost of the T and V consultants, which have already been
contracted, is US$7,300 per staff month. The cost of the 40 staff-months of
consultants' services for the preparation of the third irrigation rehabilita-
tion project, which involves different technical expertise, is estimated to
range from US$9,500 - 11,500.
75.       Disbursements under the loan would extend over about six years.
Disbursements for eligible goods and services would be made against: (i) 100
percent of foreign expenditures for goods procured abroad, and 80 percent for
vehicles, machinery and scientific and technical equipment procured domestic-
ally; (ii) 100 percent of expenditures for consultants and expert services;



- 20 -
(iii) 100 percent of foreign and 30 percent of local expenditures for train-
ing, research contracts and library services; (iv) 30 percent of total
expenditures for civil works and furnishings; (v) an average of 30 percent of
total expenditures for incremental salaries and expenditures, which is
converted to a fixed annual amount for each incremental staff in the case of
research, and to a decreasing percentage for extension and support services,
with each reimbursement being based on a statement to be certified by the
head of INIPA; and (vi) amounts due on the PPF and the front-end fee.
Project Benefits
76.       The calculation of the project's economic rate of return is based                  A
on conservative assumptions as to the adoption rate of technological packages
and the incremental production yields that would be derived from the applica-
tion of this technology.  Taking into account total project cost and the cost
of incremental inputs, the economic rate of return is estimated at 20.5
percent. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the rate of return would still
be 13 percent (about the opportunity cost of capital in Peru) with a 21
percent reduction in benefits and a 20 percent increase in INIPA costs. In
addition, the project is expected to have significant foreign exchange bene-
fits. After ten years, in constant 1981 US dollars, it is expected to
produce an annual net benefit of US$13.5 million as a result of import sub-
stitution and US$13 million in foreign exchange earnings.
77.       In addition to the financial and economic benefits, there are sub-
stantial unquantified benefits from this project. It would help create a
research and extension system that would benefit the whole Peruvian agricul-
ture sector. This system would be replicable throughout the country and
would improve the chances for success of all future agricultural and rural
development projects; it would also serve farmers who do not participate in
organized projects. Ninety percent of the beneficiaries of the programs of
the five project CIPAs to be supported under this operation would be poor
small farmers who have had little or no access to extension services during
the past decade. The T and V extension system that would be adopted nation-
wide under the project would make it possible to provide technical support to
these farmers to help increase their productivity and improve their income
and welfare.
78.       The project faces no special risks, but the effectiveness of the
research and extension system to be created would depend greatly on the
Government's commitment to INIPA's program. The priority being given by the
Government to rebuilding the research and extension service is evidenced by
its creation of INIPA and the strong financial support it is providing,
including the recent substantial increase in staff salaries.  Also, the
impact of this project would depend on Government policy regarding prices,
marketing, input supply, etc. These policies have been improved and are now
generally acceptable.  The Bank will continue to utilize its economic and
sector policy dialogue with the country to help ensure that they remain so.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru, the Banco de
la Nacion (which, under Peruvian law, must be a party to all agreements
providing for external loans to the Central Government) and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
80.       The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of
effectiveness would be: (i) the appointment of a project manager; (ii) the
staffing of INIPA's Engineering Planning Service; and (iii) the execution of
an agreement between the Republic of Peru and INIPA providing that INIPA
would carry out the project and the Government would make available to INIPA,
free of charges and repayment obligations, the corresponding proceeds of the
loan and the counterpart fund required for it. A condition of disbursement
for the preparation of a third irrigation rehabilitation project would be
execution of an agreement between INAF and the Government providing that INAF
would carry out this component.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 28, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGiTED AVEEAGES
LAJN  AREA (THOUSAND Sq. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1285.2                                 MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      305.5              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   230.0       410.0      730.0                1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF GOAL EQUIVALENT)      436.3        691.8     736.9                 1324.1                    2368.4
PUPULATION ANl VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATIUN, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0       13461.0   17149.0
URbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3          57.4      66.5                   64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PKOJECTIONS
POPULATION IS YEAR 200U  (MILLIONS)                       28.5                      .                         . .
51ATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHEU                   2085
POPULAT 1ON DENS lTY
PEE SQ. KM.                         7.9         10.5       13.3                  34.3                      80.6
PEK SQ. KM. AGKICULTURAL LAND      33.0         44.0      54.6                  94.5                      133.9
POPLLATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YKS.                          43.6         44.3      42.8                  40.7                       30.1
15-44 YRS.                          52.0         51.8      53.6                  55.3                       61.5
65 YES. AND AbOVE                    4.4          3.9       3.6                   4.0                        8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TuTAL                               2.4          2.8       2.7                    2.4                       1.5
URBAN                               5.1          5.0       4.3                   3.7                        3.1
CGUDE BIRTH hATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.4         41.8      37.8                   31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.7         14.5       11.1                   8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.0        2.6                   2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPIOES, AENUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOUD AlD NUTRITIGN
INDEX OF POUl PRODUCTION
PEh CAPITA (1969-71=100)           96.0        102.0      86.0                 108.3                      119.8
PER CAPIIA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRBIIENTS)                   95.0         99.0      97.0                 107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           62.0         61.0      59.0                   65.8                      92.5
OPF WHCH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.U         25.0      24.0                  34.0                       39.7
HOILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.5         19.6       13.7                   7.6                       3.4
hEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.7          53.5      58.0                   64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
liHOSiAND)                              ..       122.0/c    86.0                   70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              14.6         35.0      48.3                  65.7
URbAN                              30.2         58.0      60.0                  79.7
RURAL                               0.8          8.0      25.0                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DIlSPOSAL (PERCENT
UF PoPULATIUN)
TOlAL                                ..         36.0      34.0                  59.9
URBAN                                ..         52.0      51.0                  75.7
RURAL                                ..         16.0        ..                  30.4
POPULAIION PER PHYSICIAN           2011.7       1904.9    1545.1                1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2205.0/d      738.0     745.0                1288.2                      896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             425.1/e      469.6     542.7                 471.2                      262.3
URBAN                                ..        524.8     430.1                 558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                ..       3055.3    5747.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BEE             ..        19.0      23.0                    ..                       18.2
HOUSlNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.9          4.8/f
URBAN                               4.8          4.9/f
RURAL                               4.9          4.6/f
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.3          1.9/f
URBAN                               2.0          I.7l/f
RURAL                               2.7          2.4/f
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              26.0         32.1/f
URBAN                              50.7         54.3/f      ..                    .
REhAL                               4.2          2.7/f



-23 -                                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                          Page  2  of  5
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)   a
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA S CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0        103.0     112.0                  101.7                     105.9
MALE                  95.0        111.0      116.0                 103.0                     109.6
FEMALE                71.0         96.0      106.0                 101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  15.0         30.0       50.0                  35.3                      66.3
MALE                  18.0         34.0       53.0                  34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                13.0         26.0       46.0                  35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  20.0           17.0       16.0                  30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         35.0      40.0                   29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                           12.0         17.0       29.0                  15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         72.5/f    79.7                   80.0                      75.4
CONSU MPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8.0         17.1       18.5                  42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         108.0        135.1     135.4                  215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.2         29.3      50.8                   89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        123.3       51.0                  62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                   3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3193.9       3896.8    5079.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.1         20.7      22.8                   22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               53.0         44.8       37.8                  35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0         20.1      20.0                   23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.4         28.9       29.6                  31.8                      42.3
MALE                                  49.6         45.8       45.6                  49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                                13.2         12.0       13.6                  14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.6                   1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0/g
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.47j         61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.5/8          1.9/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    B.07,          7.07f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     235.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     180.0                  187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     293.0                  513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     200.0                  362.2                     385.1
r                                 ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      49.0
RURAL                                 ..
..  Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-e.ighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1970-75;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972;  /g Personal income within labor force.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita shown in the 1981 Bank Atlas is
$930 (at 1978-80 prices) and the 1980 population is Pstirated. at
17,625,000.
May 1981



-24-                                                        ~~~~~~ANNEX I
U_NMN I C__             BTC_2~                                               Pa g e3 o f 5
N.it.:A'lh.,h lh~  -   dr,Jr.- I     --- g 'all     D0FIILI-  -CF t-11 y  1-001100h1fFb
at frloitis      lhata -f--nt   gaoo..t..      t h ora.. as                                                   -h o-siroogtdoit.o et   o  a  ,dtotad   he.o-toa
aaoctofthooaoaso-aotodt,f                             -ofldiat-      to- I.ooocgo-oto gaoaogata                      faoIat,.ooe.ooab   aofa
-dao   I-                                    'd a otoatos    o caooiltt-og- tagaa ftnotoidios:-taat. -toc  Thsss--ao-os-rtnloo-foi'              apt       hffa'
eldjatI tata   aga            -tooya-d.ta                  ....a..op
T-oaiT-ofltloa-          aCm-ftogi-            aooot        -dt -rlt-r .-obo-, a                                oolid.odbthb-aaeap-i- a-oblt ,f  alt.-ao
o-Iaa.d by  ...  r'otso  asloo ,faId l:atlot aa (i9117,    -ol) 10,ad -ediralocaa no   onaataiatfo  bopyfi                                                          Itto
PIFOOt CotFCll0ntOi (Ft .00 tOO   00000.   oaaott    of o..aaat talatoegy  total  a foal oorroaaa  obot tosrot ala oo boa loot ~~~7,   -1ottpa..00I1-,i
aafhtgttte.Fftlo.r,toett19oaotoby7a-,ooola19o9    Iaoeeaelt                               otaoalSpt-ialto-d h           aootpa,r        ifooosory .dt-atoa I    oia
OPO0FCAI0N M11 0120  SidT1STlCf
Fo12          totj   At-r oft.naf)           t   0f 1.1  1) 9601  ISM, aic 1909               ff10111
daba                                                                                           A-.fofo  oaog o   oa2-  OSi  abt  t   olloifoto  bosbl v .se. tgao      ofod.  hono tooto  f It og-b-  -otto .to
OfflI aeo   ra otn   of  obto.ttootaa oh-bl.t/ooooti,Iaf   of.oooe                                                                     ogoo           1 o       b   olddf
snt   tot .afb,  0.1, ltd -9ff d-o.t  fth oetolo -  -toatalol P-t--0
yoofttolAyojlt Coato   ootoot.ooaaa    ot-olf                                            bto   oeaaaanoafoito...ot  oei                        .o.d...too
lo-1  vtoibyaga-le   aod Itbatela -altodatia   oo.t&olo-,ao-Foot-ey.  fall0aotolo,too tt                                                                      ----aooa  -d
Pooaliotaooaotattataabefoalolafeolbee   eoaaaaaotto.a.rpICs
a-i. aod fanl   taeano-aafofgol Ffaa.F000                                                    CtlaobOo.....OOa-bfac .t'yt                      " Itt.o  .....tIe-at
a-d fatofltoy  -nads foa  -o  oclo  00000111                                               Adfoo-d E-aIflaaa  Roalo
fl--fnat    oaaioItsotlt popot-t-nt-- Iot   potabena                                              ala,sooI..to   aeaotfsooala -lanaata-,atIeendfonoo
oybtthca   laeooolooc     deatbo.t.  a.oaonb.gaaa..ca                                                                                   ..o.atfltgaabotaayaoo I acotoaf.. fta....o
tiaoafoosact   eoolo   octcotcpoodoalotaea  obsneoy  gtara tonar,'I bocadft-.edoodlilfa-at 1oogaha  0yoooocyad.oa.lot;fo
ofntah      pottfasfsa 1r              bealiooyooatn   foasootoaoabtntesfadoot-    oofao  etetIdfi   oo
ontobot   f  o    tteld   bt  costt   fab   0ti00          aca100p            ilsae  eo  oc..a.I 0ioo ab  I.t.
otabeyeatlff,aol-oeooce  nfdatloneoftloofiiot  0~~~11  01h 01                 iaodooooi-oo  Ialeen  fao-a-  loldoed o.ioea                               d
h-a baa,ili, 1ff    d  f11dd      a                                                          fofdeeboolfoaco,toaaopgaa   t-Ioaaatepd
Panl aa . a.oefalec   fn       oooo1ooe   oaotoeco1ln                                             sly00aItcaac   fsaIdcoIstaaoa
oal.  ft.   y..loc  l-1Fit data                                                         Pae-aaktna--  -          teoodo.oa arooo0-fo                atdetaeno-loIt
r-ylafo  Ala  0 tcatt9feo7       I-O ea   ll y-dof 1979lg-aa -l-po- on  oaf  -oono -yentl df fodd0  caa-oftabtao 
Oaaacaf.aotaaoclfff   saclto  nanfl  oloantgal  feldyeaaooo      ncoapandndlerya
fatioo,-lbO,Obti,oadltlldoto.S"    a-Ad.folal-1-                  -d-IIaeoood.-l .....a-C .f                                   n   aals _ltneaac_toe
pcpaoel n; fIbi, ff10, and  119 Odla.                             aflea1-1cay csbio-fao.~If   -zh..    th
poplatba;ilb, 110.en  20   la   .                                                        coa osas  n  sesal  obln pa9aoo--dofgopooton;-o bas  ot
al.l..11   solOf0  ya11 adq- atatog - sbdig t    190,   -u  ad  fI--.,                 ooootoatsbl sad fstag
Fao.ibolocc-oools-0alfons19-gtofosaod0osao                                                     O   ssfsa197 Inaaoetlafe-F   se7daftbodos
of.I.Dt b,c-oooo    sfe   oa  ssts   foafo   oal   lntfeocl                                       scaaal pabiitoi- pe  "baanr      alto,  efdaotsadhtttaot
foa:ylaocog    aeslattotofocaadoael?acso70tdanaadtaaoa979adtaydaatscegraa,,ooFoaaoa
1le 9t bl.botg  g   1-              d- aaa heb  aS- loIn--ocacol  jda-css               saae   lnllb   ceaesedaebeof-foa   b   tcg 
o...   ...t.e  poaroploaa  ao.ooafetf0ol.gaal  ceeaceppa',dfae   a    aaofo
h~ ~ ~ ~~~A                                                                 dd                               h ...~~~~~~~~~pbfoataOsna   pcoatldt cao 1fo gplsoa- cos    I  aosfa
rog  o  poaIo                                                                                I  s'dly  160arsasanloa   fod                  hneoask
IalsafFttOaldo     fll -oaoartefl-f-l-di,, i,-190ad        970nf . yeopo   9tol          laoaaa   lelcss  Oot   ana-as                               abneet
Pe   a  ascl   f_ eoio(o   e  of_ll   sgfaaaf -il  ploatos   as ,sdfcsasd.fs0ldba   a d                                       10-db     -- osifs- ba-de-t, et
00000 effoaeat  f n- fod soflls oc hals  I  000100psI  eota  otecla   platasal  f al  osl.  tfloelon   icocito    oaetle T,
oal sea dioaoibooioo of paytleolot, aol alloategId  500   n  oss1                o  sioltlf,i 0.-elsa  -o  1-O Cspattag    f  0     boIfo,  90
otosebold lanol; 1901-OF, 1910, ota 1911 dod.                                1910..d f,d   d  I    sad. 19.9d a" Ita. 1r   -1i..di--I
a--Iao  of  dfgoas  If' alo       i onoet  yea-65  1970ao  l d oo7s of - anjo1lLobd 1901,  1970, .sod  1979fats    mess ace              1 bae-cI-      oootyto    al
ptolo 011111  of  btoFif aass  bottd beaaial yooslo.  Flsesaod-                  aflsttaggs-ioa-p-daaefa.abs  oyolelf.....loagIadoaed
aloof fobalisals ad pulsesia  als  o  layd  191-5-e,l  of   10   as                F-1 Dp--R            F.1791dl
lgsgooOl-t ysaa,ooobllose  toblssgegotoy;oeoastdrslplocooa-                  5leecooooacltea  lI yooeea ,noeosa ifya-c.l......oo-ottyeoSen
oboId ictnfOt TARI(P 1-101)
hi aolaylBetfeef-ocgtos    ffaso   leonlfg                                            n    otsa   salo ssfo   sysootasseseso   oen   e
so 00000;1901. 191 aol 199 daca.                         ad slotod be llooposeod 11ff ooaadoealI1dnattodla
IIsa llosio   oefsobadl)-bna h-1loba ofr   afaat -eds  one osr                               fsellOsll   eoeyfln   aa  f0pe-oio      dl   o   oa
loo.todas       _iIteeoaasbidtoeal-toah-011,Ob-  IIota-a-                                        boaeooe-aooos    IsIa fa                     9no0oalolcoff97atoes
osecsota       d r fa   .Yea.odosaa,srns   a   oaooelo                                      aa   oataoo "oIo   lana  -Is on-eod   of  oolag                   ip po..o.f.a
cosfedsblgYftboaalebe           os  of       d 20sboa   Ielf055                      stae goottenleosfooks-ocy  aeI    enlTacon r-nooe1y
ess.aoablsaooesaaoolfamolytbaatbsttaassattsoassobscsofsbebooa.ttfd          sadatOaal-?secsaoofpoytlsoooO(ttebaosaddaa6a-)s1979d"sOsh-bo
do1 aol   -ido 10 spat   h a   0sypoloae potodb-a  t   sttgOl                                  pIle
lbs oolfsooloe sad disposal, eb   to s9sa7   DO.sf-d-yat bioaoscaea                                                        fonot   o   ollOeDoso
sa   at-arob   eoe-on   yssa0   lt  s   fpa   ons oId a tt-                                                                 00000101los dal  sd- Ieror -os    pea
lea   I..atlta   .1Ray 109
Plotlsolc pe  Obylol d ,- Ioaofadtts   yaom            fpsotlgpyt
otoYtolfadfosedoaloho   aaatoas             dy -hsl
Peoateoab tolgOeon-Pplto t                     dt        196sd 6by ta9nbee - afoss t da
salaadso- sgedassaP oss,   eaoioat "ees  sadaats fa



r p > e  ° .<  ¢ a . ff ¢ F m    d  > . o n W . a   2  w s  n n  _ n            o    ¢   D  N v U  < C m _ e o n s  tG
° o o s r > > _ > e o r z o _ U = v /n 5 n o _ e M | ] c X ffi; i g s ° ° O p % >| q
Y g s O a m n X  b r O t 4 Z 1 4 s r O ¢ + ) M ms n o v W M ° X 3 4 n X
<  o M  n ¢  w  e 4  D =    n      n C         g  t         > >       o hs     ¢   t                  X t         F
< Q   >    >         O             o         <                         r       e
. ° q L < * x o
.
W o u . jW . i jC, q j u o o o % >
<  < jS  CA  s  {_ [  _  I ;               &D   ; S  O  i  ' {    | >  ^    | z  +  z   I TO I  I
 > ; > ;£ >; _I S |W; 19 > 1N v s G O @ _ 4 * |£ LJ 1S. O = I S G _ U o @ < s 1 O O
wi o    o S wi -o        a    b  i i abo i -  i    -si i i  c                      B
s X s_   o    = X ,o,   ]o    i    _ o     s 1- n       | _ _  _    b liv U is lo    -  v = cj =    -_ > > > o, D o _
_ w _ _ sx _ S M > o | @ w w _ ( | i_ U o > b l iw | ° @ s
i  i w S i    j>-                      r                 i |i -E  1 S   |   < @ iJ ;>     _ o o D < a j _, o j @ Cj    l
o im _ _ i i 1 _ | _ _ t w | i F s _> t X > O m _ > _ >
E g _ w ci o l i o i S _ s s > b _ | _ w W > w | o; | c o o _ s w n c > b a _ i
s  = - - -    19                            w  - ° |@    9 | > - |@iCi      ¢ b 9 @       ° w-b @ > w-9 i    il  P |b Z
o_inSw   X               IiJ     Zo  _         i Dwo  __wis    w    4
yog 8i -i>>r < w 1Xt lilin w o > l q
oi b bw bs_;. | v w>.o ° No ,.az; > jXg-Log -1 >
; iD a a "   ! E X    _ - - - c F ti               r  i° - b X      ° i = i ° ° it ' - 4    -{
'-1 < @=<6$ irr 0as ¢s !- i li>-- Iilo|> s ,<; ooYWi mt .i
r o; q S . _ o s o S 8 |> i v |g lo g W  M t 4 >] > O i w > is g 7
> W vr    i j  S . i '         p g  X ii                       g  S  X { c  ci
Xb    j _  O  F        i      j E  t               o-so
M b  5              i i  i O      T Ir, _ |71S|<    >: e t         Sn Y w w Yo w > w tb 2    -|9
_  yo; y       _     _                                                      oc                          o       I
i  o;< -       i      g                          1- b
O>-r: ,n;4
o is _    ' | o  b s _ s-    J i  : _ _ _  _  in X  7          S bd  | Z O | o1 =       ° N       s u w im _ W s o Z e    e yr
L | o L _ _ L  ^ o 1                    : E >      _
_  w  O  w  i                                             _ - * i 
. J 1 D r E L _ o i _ _ ' o i o
B W S    s Io  S B w w      U | w °L 3 ¢     l t                    b 1> im _    | e                 ; g _ > @  N; =     i
';L     avr  o '         O                                                      {B ;o               wQ o b ¢b_>  v    o i4
I; ° Y |E z
.X_       N  Ww         1X                                                                         ;,w-°>_,><j r    7 .
< W       .  E  4 s      I B                                                                                              I    S a
qi    = > >     _  b o L i     X                                          > is i i |EI;l l                                             o i
_ _ t _ _ _ o o IBl;lti



-  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1982)
---US$ million ---
(                                                                                   Amount
Loan                                                          (less cancellations)
Number      Year           Borrower             Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
27 loans fully disbursed                                        409.2
949       1973    Republic of Peru         Education            24.0         1.9
1196        1976    Republic of Peru        Transport            76.5        22.0
1215       1976    Republic of Peru         Power                35.6         4.9
1281        1976    CENTROMIN               Mining               39.7         4.7
1283       1976    Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.           21.6         9.6
1358        1977    COFIDE                  Industry             35.0         3.9
1403       1977    Republic of Peru         Agriculture          25.0        21.3
S-il        1978    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment         8.8         2.5
1771        1980    Republic of Peru        Irrigation           56.0        51.1
1806        1980    PETROPERU               Petroleum Prod.    32.5          27.0
1812       1980    Republic of Peru         Rural Dev.           15.0        14.4
1888        1980    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment         7.5         5.1
S-19       1980    SIDERPERU                Technical Asst.       5.0         4.7
1963        1981    CORPAC                  Aviation             58.0        57.6
1968        1981    COFIDE                  Industry             60.0        60.0
2018        1981    ELECTROPERU             Power                25.0        25.0
2064       1981    Central Reserve Bank Industry                26.0        26.0
2091        1982    Republic of Peru        Transport            93.0        93.0
2117       1982    PETROPERU                Industry              5.3         5.3
Total                                                   1,058.7
of which has been repaid                                183.5
r               Total now outstanding                                      875.2
Amount sold                            18.3
of which has been repaid             18.3                 -
Total now held by Bank                                     875.2
Total undisbursed                                                      440.0



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Type of
Year                Obligor                       Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.          Home Appliances   0.2       -       0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks             0.3      -       0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials          0.3      -       0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers           4.1      -       4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.               Cement             2.3     0.2      2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement             1.1     0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.        Mining             15.0      -      15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura        Mining              2.0     0.5      2.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining             2.7     0.5      3.2
1981        Sogewiese                         Leasing             3.0     0.1      3.1
1981        Consorcio Energetico de            Power
Huancavelica                    Transmission       4.5      -       4.5
Total gross commitments                             35.5      1.8    37.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            18.0     0.4    18.4
Total held by IFC                                   17.5      1.4    18.9
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                              8.2      -       8.2



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses in the
project unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution has improved substantially over the past year, and
disbursements now stand at about US$22.1 million.
Loan 1196-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
r        of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced.  Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been
(        extended to end-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1281-PE:    CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component was delayed by about two
years because of the lack of local counterpart funds owing to the recession of the
late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceeding with the project with support from
additional Government counterpart funds, as well as a supplementary IDB loan and
commercial bank borrowing to cover inflationary cost increases. Engineering,
procurement and mine development activities on this part of the project are
well-advanced. The mine-water treatment plant has now been completed.
Loan 1283-PE:    Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at US$12.0 million. Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
Loan 1358-PE:    Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of this,
the Borrower -- the National Development Bank (COFIDE) -- agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which
would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this
action and improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the
credit line has increased, and it is now almost fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation systems
are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is now complete and construction has started.  The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-il-PE:    Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and all other components are being
implemented satisfactorily.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project execution is gaining momentum. The implementation of most of
the Bank-financed components of the project has begun or is in the process of
being started.
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution should improve in the coming months.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Consultants have been contracted and the final feasibility report for
the phosphate fertilizer project is being reviewed.
Loan S-19-PE:    SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans has been
reviewed.  A plan of action to deal with the findings of this report is being
discussed with SIDERPERU..
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; US$58.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
Loan 1968-PE:    Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan of
August 19, 1981; Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closin
Date: June 30, 1985.
About US$10 million of this loan has thus far been committed.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Final design of a number of projects included in this loan, including
the Yuncan hydroelectric project, are now underway.
Loan 2064-PE:     Small-Scale Enterprise Project; US$26 million of
Effective Date:                     ; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
This loan was approved by the Board on December 8, 1981. It is
expected to be signed shortly.
Loan 2091-PE:    Eighth Highway Project; US$93 million Loan of
Effective Date:             ; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This loan was approved by the Board on February 16, 1982 and is
expected to be signed in the near future. Prequalification of consultants and
constructors is being done.
Loan 2117-PE:    Oil Refinery Engineering Project; US$5.3 million Loan of
Effective Date:                   ; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This loan was approved by the Board on March 25, 1982. It will be
signed shortly. Selection of consultants is now being done.
J



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project:  6 months
(b) Project prepared by: INIPA with Bank assistance
(c) First presentation to the Bank: March 1981
(d) Identification of the project: March 1981
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: October 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1982
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
It has been agreed that:
(a) As conditions of loan effectivess, a project manager,
whose qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to the Bank, would be
appointed, the Engineering Planning Services Unit would
be staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and the
Goyernment and INIPA would sign an agreement providing
that the Government would make available, free of charges
and repayment obligations, the corresponding proceeds of
the loan and the counterpart funds required for the
project (paras. 62, 63 and 66);
(b)  the ten project research scientists would be appointed by
April 30, 1983 and the credit coordinator would be
appointed by December 31, 1982 (paras. 57 and 61);
(c) no research stations, additional to those now existing
and to be constructed under the project in the five
northern CIPAs, would be built unless justified to the
satisfaction of the Bank, and--by August 31, 1983--INIPA
would prepare a master plan for the future expansion of
research stations in the five northern CIPAs (para. 58);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) within five months of the appointment of the credit
coordinator, a study of farm credit usage and delivery
would be initiated and a cooperation agreement would be
signed with the BAP providing for its participation in
the study and in the coordination with INIPA of the
credit program in each of the project CIPAs (para. 61);
(e) all overseas scholarships and contracts for research
studies and in-service training would be acceptable to
the Bank; training contracts would be subject to an
annual Bank/INIPA review; and the Bank would approve all
institutions contracted to do research work and the terms
and conditions of such contracts (paras. 57, 59 and 68);
(f) the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be staffed in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1982
(para. 62); and
(g) as a condition of disbursement for expenditures related
to the preparation of the third irrigation rehabilitation
project, the Government and INAF would enter into
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 65).
J



PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                                       IBRD-16012R
MARCH 1982
.)\CS                                                                                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O CEDROS
*Es                                               °    Existing research stations
76mMBIs                                                                                                           5                                                               0iiesDevelopment with the project on
/AUsiNBES t -  -Extension zone boundories                                                                                                                                       e existing research stations
i: 4z                                                            -(s ~~ CIPA boundaries                                                                                                    >   New research stations
Internotional  boundary                                                                                                  Ecological zones
-  ""~~~~~~~~~' ~~~Coast
4                                                                                 I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sierra
U//At]  7                                                                                  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIRA  'Forest
p        U     <' R . A             {fv'< >                                                                          P    I  U    R   A                                               *    Cities
'>  U    R   A                                                                                                 \......JS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ANINCOCIPA boundaries
*Piura                  f                                                                                    K         *Piura              qG,HUANCABAMBA                      _        International boundary
Ns   PI/ UN RA                                                                                                     OMONTEGRANDE
\.?> {"+t   '                                                                                                                             JAENO   0BAGUA
;    \   7S"~~~   't~^'t            i  9                                                                \::   ()            7'1~   OLMOS,
/IMOTUPF-O/Mo03   -                                                r; *,'   H                                                        A
tS   ChtOrA  ;                                           \         oA R  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CH I CL A YO
tHICLAYO~CHOTA
--CH I C L.6A Y-Oc                                        
CAIM,RCA ~VISTA A                                                                                                                        CHOTA
NiAMgA rIt/h; A J A MA. R CA                                                                                          -     dLORIDA
'~ChicIayg                          I                                                                                >-  n L\ RiDly
r":  ;  Chc 'CA/AARCA        "                                                      acf         Oe          \i Chiciayo    CAJ AMARCA
- 1 J#.I/       t   r 7 7 t    a  CjaCimarco a  ,  '                                                                                   K                * QCAJAMARCA
TRW/I/O                                                            --                   COLOMBIAt                                      GCAJABAMBA
MA I'HUGO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\PAI]AN
J T RU          L[L                                          n o                                                      T r    c or ReJ JL  L  0
,Trujillo       /CIPA Inen-., Bdr                                                                 > / MTruo                           &     M'
V-  k  ALTO MA PA NON  y   \xnooosIThso-n    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~,~HUA A                                      R AZCC
\  Ct   HI, U A  R A\ Z                               ctJ QL            S   I
HUI/A PAZ                                                                                                       HUFARA     TINOUA0HUARI
CN\ 2 :\,  \\\iMABOT?,_ *lHuaraz
8OTi~~~~~~~~PenH uaroz
in HiANCAYO'
.F   :  ;    2 \ ::i: \ S   >   f  cver   . HUAN    ! MAIRE DE DIOS\
KitOMETERS 0   40      0     I       0    200             ; o                                                          ICA'      CUZCO
1    1    1    ;    |    r    | i   ;;\  .  (   f Y          N         :         \  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AYACUV- . . i                            !
MILES O    0   40   0o  60  1oe  120          ;     ;
rhl pape&f4pxpdhythwwvddwoAtsttffiasSwlhArA*cilEdnra   ;   Qi )    ?<   )>                  .tntREQUI,ARE UIPA
jen  en. .One sfhr=rweef en. .nen i enun  e S ene.n eO sThe 0nnnnetnnne flnenednn.lsh   2                                                  e on f)2  : :    0 .                    ;; 
bnoneni.ene or  eOns nnde*h  Sey neo unin  en en, n.n enir  Menl Bert end                         ;  ONAs: 
eTniocree. h..   n       enennn.rne| noranie,nO nnne 
.1 ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
fi-f~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~i                                                                     cZ    n



