LOAN NUMBER 2150-PE
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Research and Extension Project
betveen
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE LA NACION
Dated                                , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBEL 2150-PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 60777/6                         , 1982 between
REPUBLIC OF PERU (herei after called the Boriower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION, AND lEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCO DE LA NACION (hereinafter called Banco
Nacidn).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Borrower has agreed to carry out the Project, other
than Part F (iii) thereof', through INIPA (as the term is defined
in Section 1.02 (e) of this Agreement), and Part F (iii) of the
Project through INAF (as the term i6 defined in Section 1.02 (f)
of this Agreement);
(C) Banco Nacidn has participated in the negotiations of
this Agreement, and has represented to the Bank that it has
discharged all of its other responsibilities as financial agent
of the Borrower pursuant to the Borrower's Decreto Legislativo
No. 5 published in El Peruano on December 31, 1980;
(D)  the Borrower has agreed to make the proceeds of the
Loan  available   severally' to  INIPA  and   INAF  as  hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Loan  and   Guarantee


﻿-2-
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several term     defined in the
General Conditions have the respec. .ve meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project   Preparation   Advance"  means , the   project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated F46"bruary 5, 1982 and.February 25,
1982 'between the Borrower and the Bank;
(b) "Specific Accounts" means all of the following ,accounts
a reflecting all capital and recurrent expenditures for p-rposes of
the Project incurred by: (i.) each CIPA; (ii) the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit; (iii) the Project Management Unit;, (iv) the
Training and Documentation    Center;  and  (v) the Engineering
Planning Service Unit;
(c) "Project Area" means the departments of Piura, Tumbas,
Lambayeque, Cajamarca, La Libertad and Ancash and the province of
Maranon, all political subdivisions of the Borrower;
(d) "CIPA" means a Centro de Investigacion y -Promoci n
Agropecuaria (Center for Agricultural and Livestock Research and
Extension) eqtablished within INIPA by the Bprrower'-s Supreme
Decree No. 046-81-AG published in El Peruano 'on March 29, 1981
and which discharges its responsibilities within a department- or
province included in the Project Area;
(e) "INIPA" means Instituto Nacional de Investigacidn y
Promociojn Agropecuaria (National Institute for Agricultural and
Livestock Research and Extension), or any successor thereto, a
decentralized public institution established by the Borrower 's
Legislative Decrees No. 21 and 142 published in El Peruano on
January 20, 1981 and     on June 15', -1981,   respectively, the
functions and structure of which have been set forth in the
Borrower's Supreme Decree No. 046-81-AG, published-in El Peruano
on March 29, 1981;
(f) "INAF" means Instituto Nacional de Ampliacion de la
Frontera Agrrcola (National Institute for the Expansion of the
Agricultural Frontier), or any successor thereto, a decentra-
lized public institution established by the Borrower's Legis-
lative Decree No. 21 published in El Peruano on January 20, 1981;


﻿-3-
(g)  "Contractual   Arrangements"  means   the   contractual
arrangements to be entered into between the Borrower and INIPA or
INAF, as the case may be, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, or the contractual arrangements to be entered into
between INIPA and Banco Agrario del Peru pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement;
(h) "Project Management Unit", "Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit" and "Engineering Planning Service Unit" mean the units
referred to in sub-paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph
(a) of Sectior 3.02 of this Agreement established by resolution
of I IIPA's Jefe No. 0016-82-INIPA (ssued on May 23, 1982, named
Unidad de Manejo de Proyectos de Inversion, Unidad de Supervisidn
y  Evaluacidn,   and  Unidad  de   Programacidn  de- Ingenieria,
respectively, each to be operated under regulattons to be   sE-ued
pursuant to Article 2 of such resolution;
(i)  "Credito Pulblico" means Direccior General de Credito
PAblico (General Directorate of Public Credit) of the Borrower's
Ministry of Ecoanomy, Finance and Commerce;
(j) "Training, and Visit Techniques" means a system of
extension activities which incorporates the principles of pro-
grammed, regular and supervised extension activities, the main
characteristics of which are regular visits at approximately
fortnightly intervals made by an extension worker ("sectorista"),
who would have no duties other than field extension and who would
contact individual farmers selected, from a group of about ten
neighboring farmers with similar resources, each such contact
farmer representing   the main contact point between     INIPA's
extension services and the farmer group in question; and
(k) "DEPEREHATIC" means Direccidn Ejecutiva del Proyecto
Especial de Rehabilitaci6n de Tierras Costeras, established under
the Borrower's Supreme Decree No. 411-77-AG published in El
Peruano on October 10, 1977, which operates legally and admini-
stratively within the jurisdiction of INAF.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty
million six hundred thousand dollars ($40,600,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with        the- provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Pieparation
Advance shall thereupon be§"ancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil y"orks required for the Project
and to be financed out of the pboceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The' Closing Date shall be March 31, 1988 or
such "later date 'as the Bank shall establish. The KBank shall
promptly notify the Borrower-of such later date.
Section  2.05. Not    later  than  the  Effective  Date,  the
Borrower shall pay to 'the Bank a fee equivalent to six hundred
thousano dollars ($600,000). The fee shall be payable in %uch
currency or currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the event
that the Bank shall not have received full payment of the fee by
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required for the full payment of the fee in the currency or
currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. The Jefe (Head) of INIPA and the Director
Ejecutivo of DEPEREHATIC, or the person or persons authorized by
each of them, are designated as representatives of the Borfower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions, in respect of Parts A, B, C,
D, E and F (i) and (ii) of the Project, and Part F (iii) thereof,
respectively.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
other than Part F (iii) thereof, through INIPA, and Part F (iii)
of  the  Project   through  INAF, all   with  due  diligence   and
efficiency and in Conformity with appropriate agricultural and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrange-
ment satisfactory to the Bank with INAF and INIPA whereby: (i)
the Borrower shall make available to INAF and INIPA without any
obligation of repayment, or payment of any charge in respect
thereon, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (5) and to Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4), respec-
tively, of the table set forth in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (ii) INAF and INIPA shall commit to discharge its
respective  responsibilities  in  connection  with   the  carrying
out of Part F (iii) of the Project and the other Parts thereof;
provided, however, that in respect of INAF, the corresponding
contractual arrangements shall specify that INAF activities in
respect of the Project shall be channeled through DEPEREHATIC.


﻿-6-
(c) The Borrower shall cause INIPA to enter with Banco
Agrario del Peru, not later than 5 months after having"hired- tie
services of the expert, referred to in Section 3.03 (b) (iv') of
this Agreement, into contract6al arrangements satisfactory to a(
Bank to coordinate the act'iiities: of INIPA and sudh Banco in
respect of the carrying out of Part B.(2) (vii) of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise, and cause INIPA, INAF and
Banco Agrario del Peru to exercise, its respective rights under
the  contractual  arrangements  referred  to   in  the  preceding
paragraphs (b) or (c) or both, as the case may be, in such maaner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwi-e aR_ree .te Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or  aive any., of such contractual arrangements or "any provision
thereof, nor shall the Borrower permit INIPA, INAF or Banco
Agrario del Peru-to take any of such actions.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all steps as shall be
necessary to ensure that:
(a) INIPA shall maintain the following units which shall be
operated under regulations satisfactory to the Bank:
(i) a Project Management Unit, which will be respon-
sible for planning, coordinating and supervising
all operations under the Project and which will be
directly under the Director of INIPA's Planning
Department;
(ii) a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, which        will
coordinate all research monitoring activities of
INIPA and evaluate INIPA's extension services; and
(iii) an Engineering Planning Service Unit, which will
function as a technical support unit to ensure
efficient execution of civil works carried out by
or through INIPA, including those which are part
of the Project; and
(b) INIPA shall provide each of such units, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for
the diligent and efficient discharge of its responsibilities,
including, but without limitation;


﻿-7-
in respect of the Project Management Unit, a Pro-
ject Manager, who shall be the head of such Unit
and two assistants with-accounting and procurement
experience; and-
ii)  in respect of the, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit,
which  shall  be  staffed  in form and   substance
satisfactory to the Bank not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1982: (A) about five professionals in the
fields of agronomy, economy, sociology and statis-
tics; (B) ten field surveyors, two of which will
be  posted  at  each "CIPA;   and  (C) about   four
monitoring specialists who -will supervise such
field surveyors and coordinate and confrol the'
field Curveys carried" out by the monitoring and
evaluation field staff of each CIPA.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of, the Project, the Brrower shall cause INIPA or
INAF, as the case may be, to employ consultants or expert , as
specified' in paragraph (b) below, whose selection., qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
in accordan6e with the principles and procedures described in- the
"Guidelines for the 'Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981 and in Part E of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.,
P
(b)  (i) in respect of Part A.(1) (i) of the Project, INIPA
shall hire as and when need,4d 'for purposes of the
Project but not later than April 30, 1983, the
services of   ten commodity and    scientific dis-
cipline research experts;
(ii) in respect of Part A.(2) of the Project, INIPA
shall hire about nineteen man-months of agri-
cultural consultant services;
(iii) in respect of Part B.(1) (i) and (ii) of the Proj-
ect, INIPA shall hire about thirty man-years of
consultant services who will train INIPA's staff
in the use of Training And Visit Techniques and
initiate and supervise the putting into effect of
such Techniques over a period of three years.


﻿-8-
(iv) in respect of Part B.(2) (vii) of the Project,
INIPA shall hire, not later than December 31,
1982,   the services of a credit coordinator who
will organize the credit assistance program and,
not later than 5 months- of" being hired, design and
coordinate   the  initiation  of  the   study,  all
included in such Part of the Project;
(v) in respect of Part C of the Project, INIPA shall
hire, for the Project Management Unit, the ser-
vices of a consultant for Pibject start-up opera-
tions, such as procgrement and recruitment, and of
the Project Manage    referred to in Section -3.02
(b) (i) of this Ag eement, anffor the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit the services of a group of
experts who  will conduct an external review of the
research activities, and ,of consultants who will
design ahd, initiate the methodology, and  period-
ically supervise the system of operations of such
unit with respect to the monitoring and evaluation
of extension activities. In addition, the consul-
tants referred to in (iii) above will design a
reporting system to measure progress in the
carryirig out of Part B.(i)(i) of the Project;
(vi) in respect of Part D of the Project, INIPA will
hire consultants who will design or organize, or
both, improved library services;
(vii) in respect of Part F (i) and Part F (ii) of the
Project, INIPA shall hire about two man-years of
consultant  services   for  each  of   the  studies
included  in  such  Part   F  (i), and   about  one
man-year for future project preparation under such
Part F (ii,); and
(viii) in respect of Part F (iii) of the Project, INAF
shall hire engineering consultants.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure or to
cause INIPA or INAF, as the case may be, to insure, or to make,
or cause INIPA or INAF, as the casi may be, to make, adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the


﻿-9-/
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower,2 INIPA or
INAF, as the case may be, to replace or repair such goor
(b) The Borrower shall 'cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause INIPA or,INAF, as
the case may be, to furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their pre-
paration, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents
and construction and procurement schedules for ,the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause INIPA or INAF, as the case may
be: (i) to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) to enable the Bank's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine theugoods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and docKents; and (iii) to
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals of not more than six
months all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall cause INIPA to furnish to the Bank
for comment, not later than December 31, 1982, a Project progress
reporting format and shall make such changes to such format as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(d) Upon the award by INIPA or INAF, as the case may b, of
any contract for goods, works or services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than one year after the Closing Date or such


﻿- 10 -
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause INIPA to prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost ,and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the performance by the Borrower, INIPA and INAF of their respec-
tive obligations under the Contractual Arrangements and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. (a) In order to carry out Part A 1 (iii) of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause INIPA to enter into con-
tracts with suitable institutions which will carry out specific
research activities to be agreed from time to time between the
Bank and INIPA. The respective institutions and contracts shall
require the prior approval of) the Bank to the extent such
contracts are financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall cause INIPA to obtain Bank's
approval before entering into contracts for purposes of admini-
strative training courses under Part D of the Project; such
contracts  shall  be, in    all  cases, for   a  one-year   period
and if the Bank and INIPA so agree, renewable for one or more
periods.
(c) The Borrower shall, for purposes of the carrying out of
Parts A (2) (vi), C, D and E of the Project, cause INIPA to
furnish to the Bank, as and when needed for purposes of such
Parts of the Project, an annual program of scholarships for. one
academic year or more, to modify such program as the Bank shall
reasonably request, and to carry out such program, as so
modified.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause INIPA not to estab-
lish in any CIPA any research station or substation additional to
those set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
unless the establishment of any such station or substations has
been justified to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause INIPA to furnish to
the Bank not later than August 31, 1983 a master plan for future
facility construction and expansion which will ensure the
compatibility of such future expansion or construction with the
facilities to be constructed or expanded under the Project.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Part A (2) (i) and (ii) and Part B.(2)
(iii) and (iv) of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or -with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, i2so facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express-provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative


﻿- 12 -
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or "similar functions, for, the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause INIPA and INAF:
(a) to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their operations and financial condition, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts (including, in the
case of INIPA, the Specific Accounts) reflecting all expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; notwithstand-
ing the aforesaid, the Borrower shall cause INIPA's accounts to
show separately, at all times, INIPA's administrative, research
and extension operations;
(b) to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure, and to enable the Bank's representa-
tives to examine such records;
(c) to have their respective accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(d) to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such yearo
(i) certified copicz of their accounts for such year as so
audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, separ-
ate opinion by said auditors: (A) on the senarate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and (B) in respect
of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan made avail-
able to INIPA and INAF under the respective Contractual Arrange-
ments and withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of


﻿- 13 -
statements of expenditure have been used for the        _rpose for
which they were provided; and
(e) to furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
ing said accounts, records and expenditures, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause INIPA:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, agricultural and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent-staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain its facilities,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
t'lereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) INIPA or INAF shall have failed to perform any of its
respective   obligations  under   the  corresponding   Contractual
Arrangements;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that any of INIPA or INAF will be able
to perform its respective obligations under any of the Contrac-
tual Arrangements to which INIPA or INAF, as the case may be, is
a party to;


﻿-14-
(c) INIPA or INAF shall have assigned, amended, abrogated
or waived any of the Contractual Arrangements to which INIPA or
INAF, as the case may be, is a party to or any provision thereof;
and
(d) a change in the legislation of the Borrower, shall have
occurred which shall materially and adversely affect the ability
of the Borrower to carry out its covenants, agreements and obli-
gations set forth in the Loan Agreement or the ability of INIPA
or INAF, as the case may be, to carry out their respective cove-
nants, agreements and obligations set forth in any of the Con-
tractual Arrangements to which INIPA or INAF, as the case may be,
is a party to.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (c)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section  6.01.  The   following  events 1are   specified  as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within  the  meaning   of  Section  12.01   (c)  of  the   General
Conditions:
(a) that this Agreement has been duly registered by Credito
Pu'blico;
(b) that the Borrower has entered into the Contractual
Arrangements with INIPA referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;


﻿- 15 -
(c) that the Project Manager referred to in paragraph (b)
(i) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement has been appointed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d) that the unit referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (iii) of
this  Agreement   has   been  staffed   in  form   and   substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been
registered by Cr&dito Putblico.
Section 6.03. The dateo< ,,<A     JO,  a, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Commerce
of the Borrower and the General Director of Crfdito P6blico are
severally designated as representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economfa
Finanzas y Comercio
Avenida Abancay 5a Cuadra
Lima, Peru
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINDEF                             20187 PU
Lima,                             MINDEF
Peru


﻿- 16 -
With copy to:
Ministerio de Agricultura
Edif. Ministerio de Trabajo,
Avda. Salaverry
Lima, Peru
Telex:
25835-PE
and to:                            Telex:
INIPA                             25091 PE
Avda. Guzman Blanco 309           AGRONK
Lima, Peru
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, and Banco Nacion in
the role described in the Preamble to this Agreement, acting
through their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed ip. their respective names in


﻿- 17 -
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE LA NACION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-18-
SCEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table' below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods (excluding            9,200,000
furnishings) for
Parts A.(2) (iii),
A.(2) (iv), B (2)
(v), C, Drand E of
the Project:
(a) Procured                                 100% of foreign
abroad                                  expenditures
(b) Locally procured                         80%
(2) Consultant, training       12,000,000
and library services:
(a) Services of                              100%
consultants
and experts
referred to in
Section 3.03 (b)
of this Agree-
ment (other than
the consultants
for Part F (iii)
of the Project
referred to in
subparagraph (viii)
of the aforesaid
Secton but including
the Project Manager


﻿- 19
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
referred to in
Section 3.02 (b)
(i) of this Agree-
ment, and inter-
nationally rem
cruited trainrs)
(b) Training in Peru                         100% of foreign
and abroad (ex-                         expenditures
cluding trainers                        and 30% of
but including                           local expendi-
travelling and                          tures
fellows tips),
servi&es for
Part (A) (1) (iii)
of the Project and
library services
for Parts A, B,
D and E of the
Project
(3) Civil works (ex-            3,200,000        30%
cluding amounts
withheld as per-
formance guaran-
tees) architectural
or engineering fees
therefor and
furnishings, all
for the Project
(4) Incremental                 9,000,000
salaries and
operating and
maintenance
expenditures:
(a) For Part A                              100% of amounts
of the Proj-                           specified in
ect, expressed                         Paragraph A of
in terms of                            the Annex to
dollar equiva-                         this Schedule
lent of cer-
tain maximum


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
amounts of
annual salaries
(b) Salaries,                                (i) 50% up to
wages and                               the moment the
benefits of                            aggregate.
staff speci-                           amount of dis-
fied in Para-                           bursements
graph B of                              under this sub-
the Annex to                           Category
this Schedule                          reaches the
equivalent of
$1,400,000; (ii)
30% thereafter
up to the moment
such aggregate
amount reaches
the equivalent
of $2,700,000;
and (iii) 10%
thereafter.
(c) Travelling                              (i) 50% up to
and opera-                             the moment the
tional ex-                             aggregate amount
penditures                             of disbursements
specified in                           under this"sub-
Paragraph C of                          Category reaches
the Annex to                           the equivalent
this Schedule                          of $1,100,000;
(ii) 30% there-
after up to the
moment such
aggregate amount
reaches the
equivalent of
$2,200,000; and
(iii) 10% there-
after.


﻿- 21 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalcnt)         to be Financed
(5) PartF (iii) of         1,600,000
the Project:
(a) Consultants'                              100% of foreign
services                                 expenditures
(b) Vehicles and                             100% of foreign,
equipment                                expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(6)) Refunding of           1,000,000             Amount due
Project Prepara-
tion Advance and
unpaid charges
thereon
(7) Fee under Section         600,000             Amount due
2.05 of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated             4,000,000
TOTAL       409600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 22 -
3.   The   disbursement  percentages   have  been   calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures: (i) prior to the date of this Agreement; and in respect
of Category (5) on account of payments made for such expenditures
unless the Borrower and INAF have entered into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and INIPA, or INAF,
as the case may be: (i) reialocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in.
the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applic-
able to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Disbursement against Incremental Research and
Extension Staff and Maintenance Operating Expenditures
The provisions of this Annex may be changed from time to
time,   by   agreement  between   the   Bank  and   such   INIPA's
representative or representatives, as INIPA may from time to time
appoint to act on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.09
of this Agreement.
Paragraph A:
1.   Disbursement under Category (4) (a) shall be made at the
equivalent of the following annual rates per person expressed in
terms of incremental CIPA research staff:
(a) $3,250 equivalent per annum per each research profes-
sional above a base figure of 56 professionals, up to a
maximum of 69 additional professionals;          0
(b) $1,730 equivalent per annum per each research techni-
cian above a base figure of 54 technicians, up to a
maximum of 94 additional technicians; and
(c) $1,580 equivalent per annum      per each clerical and
support employee above a base figure of 285, up to a
maximum of 262 additional employees.
2.   Disbursement shall be made on a quarterly basis using one-
fourth of the rates indicated in sub-paragraph 1 above.
3.   Disbursements shall be made on the basis of a statement of
INIPA staff strength, certified by the Jefe of INIPA, indicating
the number of full-time CIPA professionals, technicians and
employees, as the case may be, who have been on duty in the
Project Area for the entire quarter and have received their full
salaries, wages and benefits.
Paragraph B:
1.   Disbursement under Category 4 (b) shall be made against the
cost of incremental staff for the Project, as follows:


﻿-24  -
(a) For CIPA extension and credit promotion professionals,
technicians and clerical and other staff, above base
figures of 126 professionals, 220 technicians and 34
clerical and other staff up to a maximum of 80 prof es-
sionals, 162 technicians and 34 clerical and other
staff.
(b) For   staff  rendering  services  in  INIPA's  Planning
Department (Part C of the Project), in the Documenta-
tion and Training Center (Part D of the Project), in
Computing and Statistical Services (Part E of the
Project) and in each CIPA headquarterp (Part B.(2)
(iv)) of the Project, above base figures to be agreed
from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank.
(c) For staff rendering services in the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit and, under their direction, in field
offices of each CIPA above a base figure of 0.
2.   Disbursements shall be made on a quarterly basis.
3.   The provisions of sub-paragraph 3 of paragraph A of this
Annex shall apply to this paragraph B.
Paragraph C:
1.   Disbursement under Category 4 (c) shall be made against the
following expenditures for the Project:
(a) Travelling, operational and maintenance expenditures
for INIPA's extension services in the Project Area
(including INIPA's headquarters) and for the Monitoring
and  Evaluation  Unit   (headquarters  and  the   field
monitoring and evaluation activities directed by such
Unit).
(b) Incremental   travelling,   operation  and  maintenance
expenditures, as determined from time to, time by the
Bank, for INIPA's Planning Department (excluding the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit), Documentation and
Training Center (Part D of the Project), Computing and
Statistical Services (Part E of the Project) and each
CIPA's headquarters.


﻿-25-
All of the above shall be exclusive of salaries, wages,
benefits and other expenditures included in other Categories or
sub-Categories of the table set forth in the Schedule to which
this is an Annex.
2.   Disbursements shall be made on the basis of a statement of
the expenditures   on the basis of which disbursements are being
sought, certified by the Jefe of INIPA, indicating the Part of
the Project and facility to which such expenditures are related.
Withdrawal applications shall exceed the minimum amounts agreed
from time to time between the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 2.
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to rehabilitate and
expand  the   Borrower's  agricultural   research  and   extension
activities so as to lead to significant increases in production
and in producer welfare.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Strengthening of the national and field research
programs, both at INIPA's and CIPA's levels by means
of:
(1) INIPA's-level
(i) Reinforcement of ongoing research, introduction of farm
system analysis capacity and upgrading in-service staff
training.
(ii) Development of INIPA's institutional capabilities.
(iii) Development   of  existing  capacity  outside  INIPA   to
complement INIPA's research activities and enhancing
the cooperation in that respect between INIPA and
specialized institutions.
(2) CIPA's level
(i) Acquisition   and   development  of  land  for  research
activities of each CIPA.
(ii) Construction   or   expansion  of   office,  laboratory,
storage and accomodation facilities (about 13,000
square meters in the aggregate) and furnishing there-
of. Construction will be undertaken in the stations and
sub-stations set forth in Part B of the Annex hereto
and expansion in those set forth in Part A thereof.
(iii) Acquisition of scientific, technical and office equip-
ment and agricultural machinery and utilization thereof
by the CIPA's stations and sub-stations set forth in
the Annex hereto.


﻿- 27 -
(iv) Acquisition of about.75 vehicles for, and utilization
thereof by, each CIPA, as required.
(v) Development in each CIPA of a 5 year research program
which will be oriented toward solving production prob-
lems pertaining to the farming systems in the area
covered by the CIPA in question, including about 19
man-months of consultant services to assist solving
specific research problems.
(vi)  In-service and external training and education of each
CIPA's research staff, including scholarships abroad
and in Peru, attendance at scientific meetings and
short-term visits abroad, and library services.
Part B:   Reinforcement of CIPA's extension program, both at
INIPA's and CIPA's levels
(1) INIPA's Level
(i). Introduction throughout Peru of the Training and Visit
Techniques.
(ii) Training of CIPA's staff on the above mentioned Techni-
ques.
(iii) Provision    of   technical   support   to  agricultural
consultants whose services are retained by farmers.
(2) CIPA's Level
(i) Utilization of the Training and Visit Techniques to
provide extension services to farmers operating farms
ranging in size, primarily, from 1 to 20 hectares.
(ii) Utilization of extension officers to provide extension
services to cooperatives under the principle of pro-
grammed activities with continuous progress review.
(iii) Construction   of about 80 office or office/dwelling
facilities for CIPA's staff (about 6,500 square meters
in the aggregate), furnishing and, in the case of
offices, operations thereof.


﻿- 28 -
(iv) Construction of headquarters facilities in each CIPA
(about 4,600 square meters in the aggregate), fur-
nishing and operation thereof.
(v) Acquisition for and utilization by CIPA staff of about
650 vehicles, and extension equipment.
(vi) In-service and external training and education of each
CIPA's extension staff, including scholarships abroad
and in Peru, attendance at scientific meetings and
short-term visits abroad, ane library services.
(vii) Organization of a credit assistance program, including
the definition, through a study, of credit delivery
mechanisms suitable to individual small-scale farmers.
Part C:   Planning and operation of INIPA
Reinforcement of INIPA's Planning Department and expansion
of the activities thereof with the establishment within it of the
Project Management Unit, the Evaluation and Monitoring Unit and
the Engineering Planning Service Unit. This Part of the Project
includes   the  acquisition  and  utilization   of  vehicles   and
equipment for the aforesaid ?Department and Units, and training
(including local and overseas fellowships) of such Department's
staff.
Part D:   Documentation and Training Center
Construction, equipping, installation and operation of a
documentation and training center at La Molina (about 2,000
square meters) in which the central library for INIPA's research
and extension activities will be located and which will have the
capacity to issue reports and to *koduce mass media extension
services. This Part of the Project includes the acquisition and
utilization of vehicles, overseas and local fellowships for the
Center's staff, technical and administrative training courses of
INIPA's staff and staff of entities within the agricultural
sector the activities of which are related to INIPA's functions,
and library services.
Part E:   Computing and Statistical Services
Establishment of   computing  and  statistical services    in
INIPA, including the acquisition and utilization of scientific


﻿-29-
and office equipment and a vehicle therefor, overseas and local
fellowships and local training courses for the services staff,
and library services.
Part F:   Other Studies
(i) Execution of 2 studies to determine the most appro-
priate role for INIPA in the provision of agricultural
machinery services to farmers, and in the marketing of
agricultural produce in rural areas;
(ii) Execution of studies required for the preparation of a
second phase agricultural research and extension pro-
ject; and
(iii) Execution of a pre-feasibility      study based   on  the
orthophoto maps which are being financed by the Bank
under the Project Preparation Advance for, and if
warranted full feasibility study of, an irrigation
rehabilitation project on certain valleys along the
Peruvian coastal belt north of Lima.
T    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 30 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Research stations and sub-stations of every CIPA where civil,
work under Part A.(2) (ii) of the Project will be carried out:
Part A:   Existing stations and sub-stations:
Chira, Vista   Florida, Huaraz, Los     Cedros, Bagua,
,jajamarca, Jequetepeque, Paijan, Cajabamba, Tingua and
4uari.
Part B:   New stations and sub-stations:
Huancabamba, San Ignacio, Olmos, Chota, Otuzco, Viru
and Huamachuco.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 1987
through January 15, 1999                    1,560,000
On July 15, 1999                                 1,600,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 32 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                               10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                               11.60%


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Comfetitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in,addition to the requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works iemain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   (i) Vehicles shall be grouped in large bidding packages to
the maximum extent possible.
(ii) Scientific and technical equipment and agricultural
machinery shall be grouped, to the extent possible, so
as to form bidding packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and


﻿-34-
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic and Regional Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Peru or in a country which is a party to the Cartagena Agreement
or to any other regional trade agreement acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank (the Cartagena Agreement or any such other
regional agreement hereinafter called the Regional Agreement),
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following four groups:
(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Peru
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Peru equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(b) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(c) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
country other than Peru which is a party to the
Regional Agreement.
(d) Group D: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be


﻿- 35 -
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph .3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, or group D, all
group C and D bids shall be further compared with the lowest
evaluated bid from group A after adding to the evaluated bid
price of the imported goods offered in each group C and group D
bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount
equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid or group D bid; or (ii)
15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties
and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid or the
group C bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
5.   If,  as a   result  of  the  further  comparison under
paragraph 4 above, a bid from group D is the lowest, and provided
there are taxes actually payable for the importation of goods
offered in the lowest evaluated bid from group C, as determined
under paragraph 3 above, all group D bids shall be finally
compared with such lowest evaluated bid from group C, after
adding to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in
each group D bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only,
an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the positive difference, if
any, between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which would actually be payable for the importation of goods
offered in such group D bid and for the importation of goods
offered in the group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. price of
goods to be imported offered in such group D bid. If the lowest
bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group D, as
determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the
award.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works for the Project may be procured on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised in Peru after INIPA
has combined adequate construction packages, where practicable,
so as to maximize the possibility of obtaining competing bids
from adequate contractors, and to the extent the applicable
bidding procedures are satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 36 -
2.   Orders for furniture and supplies, and for scientific and
technical equipment and agricultural machinery which cannot be
grouped into bidding packages as required in Part A.3 (ii) of
this Schedule may, subject to 3 and 4 below, be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised in Peru, to the extent
the bidding procedures are satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Contracts for furniture and supplies, and for scientific and
technical equipment or agricultural machinery which cannot be
grouped in bidding packages estimated to cost $50,000 or more may
be awarded after obtaining quotations from not less than three
suppliers, provided the aggregate of contracts so awarded does
not exceed the equivalent of $250,000, in respect of furniture
and supplies nor the equivalent of $150,000 in respect of
scientific and technical equipment and agricultural machinery.
4.   Contracts for specific scientific and technical equipment or
agricultural machinery may be, when justified for purposes of
compatibility with INIPA'S existing facilities for maintenance
and servicing and with the prior approval of the Bank, directly
awarded to the manufacturer of such equipment or machinery,
provided the aggregate of the contracts so awarded does not
exceed the equivalent of $600,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the first headquarters
to be constructed under Part B (2) (iv) of the Project and the
first construction package for purposes of Part A (2) (ii) of the
Project, and to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 37
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall, furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the  Bank  shall reasonably   request. The    Bank  shall, if   it
determines that the intended.award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule., promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its' execution and prior to the
delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 38 -
E.   Procurement of Consultant or Expert Services
1.   Consultants or experts whose services are to be employed for
purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 3.03 of this Agreement shall
be selected after inviting proposals from a short list of firms
or individuals, Such short list will be sent to the Bank for
approval and the invitations to be issued will, in each case, set
forth the criteria to be taken into account for the selection of
the individual or firm to which the contract , will be awarded.
Such criteria will be determined from time to time by agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower and will take price into
account in accordance with methods and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
2.    Although under certain circumstances, as described in the
Guidelines referred to in raragraph (a) of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, the Bank may sympathetically consider the possibility
of asking proposals to a single firm or individual, extended
lists will not be used for   viting proposals.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         -day of <     , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


