Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 11493
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1332-IN)
DECEMBER 30, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal (February 1983) US$1.00 = Rupees (Rs.) 9.50
(For exchange rates throughout implementation, see Attachment, Table 1)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
GOI; GOUP - April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADW                Agricultural Development Wing
CCA                Cultivable Command Area
DOA                Department of Agriculture
ERR                Economic Rate of Retum
GOI                Govemment of India
GOUP               Government of Uttar Pradesh
ID'IW              Irrigation Department Tubewell Wing
IFAD               International Fund for Agricultural Development
IST                Improved Standard Tubewell
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
NIA                Net Irrigable Area
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
OST                Old Standard Tubewell
PCR                Project Completion Report
R&D                Research and Development
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SCF                Standard Conversion Factor
UP                 Uttar Pradesh
UPDESCO            Uttar Pradesh Development Systems Corporation
UPSEB              Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board
GLOSSARY
Kharif             Wet season (June to October)
Rabi               Dry season (November to February)
Zaid               Hot weather season (March to May)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 30, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India
Second Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Proiect (Credit 1 332-IN)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on India -
Second Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project (Credit 1 332-IN)" prepared by the FAO/CP
and the South Asia Regional Office, with Part 11 contributed by the Borrower. The report is
informative and comprehensive but it presents two sharply different perspectives about
the achievements and the likely development impact of the project.
There is no disagreement about the successful introduction and the large scale
application of a highly innovative groundwater distribution technology that had been
developed in an earlier pilot project. Part I of the PCR argues, however, that
implementation delays, erratic power supply, insufficient extension, lack of suitable water
management training, weak operation and maintenance arrangements, lower than planned
irrigation efficiencies and intensities, and higher than expected administrative and
engineering costs and lower than projected output prices imply a reestimated rate of return
of only 1 percent. Part 11, on the other hand, uses higher production estimates and
displays a highly favorable rate of return for a project which it considers to have been "a
boon" to the agriculture economy of Uttar Pradesh.
An audit is planned to ascertain the outcome and sustainability of the project
and its implications for groundwater development in India.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1332-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...............................................                                                                  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................... iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...................... 1
1.  Project Identity  ..............................................     1
2. Background ................ .......1.......
3.  Project Objectives and Description .              ..................................... 2
4. Project Design and Organization ........................................ 2
5.  Project Implementation ............................................. 3
6.  Project Results ...............................................                                                     6
7.  Project Sustainability .............................................. 7
8.  Bank Performance ..............................................    8
9.  Borrower Performance ............................................ 10
10. Project Relationship .............................................. 12
1 1. Consulting Services .............................................. 12
12. Project Documentation and Data .................. .................... 12
PART II BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON PARTS I AND III ..................... 13
1. Preface .........................                                                                                   13
2.  Summary of Comments on Project Completion Report......................... 15
3.  Comments on Part I .............................................. 20
4.  Comments on PartH  ............................................. 36
PART HI STATISTICAL TABLES
1. RelatedBankCredits ............................................. 64
2. Project Timetable ..............................................    64
3. Credit Disbursements ............................................. 65
4. Project Implementation. ........ II I............... I I II I ....   66
5. Project Cost and Financing .......................................... 67
6. Project Results ..............................................                                                      69
7. Status of Covenants .............................................. 71
8. Use of Bank Resources ............................................ 72
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ATrACHMENT 1            Economic and Financial Analysis ........................ 74
Tables:
1.     Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates ................................ 81
2.     Financial Prices of Crops and Inputs at Farm-Gate .82
3.   Economic Values of Crops and Inputs at Farm-Gate .83
4.      Performance of Improved Standard Tubewell (ST).. 84
5      Pre-Project Crop Production in Three Model Areas .85
6.  Production Summary per 100 HA CCA Tubewell .86
7.      Net Irrigable Area Created by the Project .............. 87
8.   Production Build-up of Paddy, Maize and Wheat .88
9.      Crop Production Costs Per Ha and Per Ton With Project At Full Development .89
10. Project Costs by Year .90
11.    Costs and Benefit Streams ....................................... 91
12.    Costs and Benefit Streams for Representative Models .  ...................... 92
MAP
IBRD 16540 R



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1332-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Uttar Pradesh Public
Tubewell Project for which a credit of SDR91.6 million (Credit 1332-IN) was approved on
March 15, 1983. The project was co-financed by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD Loan 124-IN) in the amount SDR32.0 million. The credit closed on March
31, 1991, three years behind schedule. The final disbursement from the credit was made on June
17, 1991, at which time the credit was also fully disbursed. The undisbursed balance of SDR4.7
million from the IFAD loan was cancelled in September 1991.
Parts I (Project Review from Bank's Perspective) and III (Statistical Infolmation) of
this report were prepared by an FAO/CP project completion mission which visited India in
February/March 1991. The Government of Uttar Pradesh's (GOUP) comments on Parts I and
III are attached to this report. GOUP's Irrigation Department also prepared subsequently a
separate PCR dated May 1992. IFAD have not responded to our request for comments on the
report.
The preparation of this PCR was based inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
legal documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda, relevant Bank reports on the sector, and discussions with Bank
project staff in the New Delhi Office.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1332-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective and Main Features
The project objectives were to alleviate poverty and create rural employment through
improved agricultural production resulting from development of public tubewells. The project
was to finance a four-year time slice of GOUP's development program in the public groundwater
sector. It was based on the concept that a reliable, timely and equitable irrigation service can only
be provided from a public tubewell if conveyance losses are minimized and the power supply is
able to match design assumptions. The main project components were: (i) construction of about
2,200 improved tubewell irrigation systems; (ii) connection to the separate 1 lkV feeder lines of
about 650 old standard tubewell systems and (iii) modernization of about 100 old standard
tubewells (para. 3.1).
Implementation Experience
During its initial stage, implementation was hampered by insufficient advance planning in
construction and procurement and by poor coordination between the implementing agencies.
These initial delays and lower than expected unit costs affected disbursement and by June 1987,
i.e. at the end of the originally planned implementation peiiod, credit disbursement was only half
of the appraisal estimate. Following the central and the state governments' request to utilize fully
project funds, including those that resulted from the increase in dollar/SDR and rupee/dollar
exchange rates, changes in project scope were introduced which consisted mainly in the financing
of more new improved standard tubewells (IST) and more "modernization of existing public
tubewells". After three extensions, the credit closed on March 31, 1991 (paras. 5.1-5.2).
Tubewell Size. While the 150 m3/hour capacity IST proved to be the most universal size
tubewell under the conditions in the project areas, there was less scope than anticipated for the
300 m3/hour capacity IST. Site selection for clusters and individual ISTs were critical planning
steps which had been thoroughly addressed at appraisal but which were not always handled
entirely satisfactorily where political pressure or poweiful interests succeeded in biasing technical
considerations. Ouality standards were difficult to maintain due to the large number of
simultaneously implemented ISTs on widely dispersed sites and with a limited number of
qualified staff. Tubewell energization was seriously delayed during the first three to four years of
implementation due to delayed funding arTangements and subsequent material shortages. During
the latter half of the project, conditions improved significantly (paras. 5.3-5.6).
The large scale introduction of IST was to be accompanied by an appropriate water
charging system based on volumetric pricing instead of using "flat rates". Relevant covenants had
been agreed upon during credit negotiations but, apart from a new water charging proposal, little
progress has been made. Agricultural development was hampered by an exceptionally slow staff
build-up and denial by GOUP of adequate transport as proposed in the SAR. There is little
evidence that training of extension workers in on-fai-m soil and water management was pursued
systematically. Field demonstrations mainly stressed the use of inputs while soil and water
management aspects were given little attention. As a result water use efficiency has remained veiy
low (paras. 5.7-5.12).



iv
Results
As designed, the success of the project depended on. its ability to provide reliable, timely
and equitable irrigation services. To minimize the risk of underutilization of project wells, a
comprehensive agricultural development component was included and the effectiveness of the
agricultural development services was to be closely monitored to assure that the expected
transformation of agriculture took place. Available data and mission observations indicate a wide
divergence in tubewell performance. In areas where fatmers had some prior expelience with
irrigation, where the social structure was fairly homogenous and where operation and
maintenance (O&M) and electricity supply turned out to be efficient and reliable, production
performance was excellent and the economic rate of return (ERR) for such wells is reestimated at
23%. By contrast, in areas where erratic power supply was coupled with insufficient extension
and water management training, with poor O&M services and shortcomings in initial planning,
the benefits from public tubewells did not materialize as anticipated and the ERR is negative.
Overall, net incremental benefits remained far below levels anticipated and at completion the ERR
for the project as a whole is estimated at 1%. Apart from the problems encountered during
implementation, the main factors contributing to the unfavorable result include: (i) the irrigation
efficiency (both, system and field application efficiency) is generally below design standard with
correspondingly higher cost per unit of water pumped; (ii) the irrigation intensity, estimated at
only 82%, is much below the appraisal estimate of 97%; (iii) there were considerable time lags
between tubewell construction and commissioning; (iv) cost for administration and engineering,
estimated at appraisal at 5% of project base cost, increased to 20%; (v) world market prices for
foodgrains, particularly for rice, did not reach the levels projected in the early 1980s (paras. 6.1-
6.8).
Despite these shortcomings the project's main quantitative objectives were met. The three
extensions of the credit closing date greatly helped to achieve and even exceed some appraisal
targets. At completion, there were 3,200 operational ISTs with 150 m3/h capacity or 160% of the
appraisal target and 450 old standard tubewells (OST), as against a planned 100, had been
modernized. All project ISTs and modernized OSTs were connected to dedicated feeder lines and
more regular power supply with less voltage fluctuations was provided. The increase in irrigable
area is 385,000 ha, more than 60% of what was foreseen. The number of benefitting farm
families could reach 660,000 or 50% more than targeted at appraisal. Expressed in 1990/91 Rs,
the average per capita income from farming with project is estimated to have increased by Rs.328
(US$18) or by 290%. This compares with an increase of 206% anticipated at appraisal (Pailt III,
4 and 6, and Attachment 1).
Sustainahilitv
The availability of sufficient and timely power supply and well functioning O&M services
will remain crucial to sustained tubewell performance. The superior technology does not imply
that the systems are less vulnerable to deterioration due to wear and tear, material quality defects,
design faults, and theft. In addition, reliance on publicly employed tubewell operators requires a
high level of competence and vigilance from such staff and does not resolve the need for farmers
to cooperate together as a group in sharing and monitoring water usage and maintenance of
channels below the outlets. O&M services provided by the government will always be vulnerable
to problems of poor delivery of such services, whether due to funding constraints or the
difficulties inherent in servicing widely dispersed equipment and facilities and operating within
the budget and other constraints inherent in government departments. Various measures can be
taken to improve the prospects for high quality deliveiy of government services. Introduction of
water charging system to cover the costs of delivery of electricity would relieve financial



v
constraints on the State Electricity Board and the need for payments to the Board by the Iirigation
Department. Similarly, water charges need to cover the costs of government operation and
maintenance costs, or perpetual reliance on availability of government funds is maintained.
Further training can be provided to tubewell operators, and the managements of all concerned
agencies can place emphasis on supervising and monitoring. the tubewells in all required aspects:
operations, maintenance, provision of electricity, and agricultural extension. Such measures,
however, require complex coordination, and a shortfall in any one function or in availability of
funds would affect performance; indeed, halting it in case of a tubewell's operational breakdown
or lengthy rupture of power supply. The sustainability of these investments is thus questionable
unless measures are taken to make them financially independent and manageiially-self reliant.
Findings and Lessons
A major achievement of the project was its large scale application of a highly innovative
technology that had been jointly developed by the Bank and GOUP and tested in the UP I pilot
project. The disappointing reestimated ERR of the project demonstrates that even with improved
technology adopted, investment in public tubewell development on a large scale is not necessarily
economically viable. Sustainability of such investments under the present government
management approach is vulnerable to present and any future shortfalls in the services provided.
Public involvement in tubewell development should therefore be reassessed. As concerns the
existing public tubewells, an option that should be considered is the handover of ownership and
management to farmer groups, village panchayats, or even private farmers or entrepreneurs.
Initial experience with this approach has been encouraging in West Bengal and in Bangladesh and
should be considered in Uttar Pradesh.
Project design appears to have relied heavily on the attractiveness of technical
innovations, the assumption being that the availability of low-cost and more reliable irTigation
systems by themselves would provide enough incentives for farmers to adopt irrigation.
However, experience with this project suggests that such linkages did not generally exist. The
main obstacle appears to have been the considerable caution, if not resistance, of subsistence
farmers towards a change from low-cost input rainfed farming to i-rigated agriculture. Although
adequate provisions had been made for the establishment of an agricultural development
component that could concentrate fully on supporting irrigated farming in tubewell command
areas, due to lack of support from within the Department of Agricultulre (DOA) and funding and
coordination problems within the Irrigation Department Tubewell Wing (IDTW) the Agiicultural
Development Wing (ADW) never gained the required strength. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
of the project failed to play the intended role of providing project management with the
performance indicators necessary for both advance planning and rectification of deficiencies in
tubewell functioning, power supply, illrigation water management and agricultural perfolmance
(paras. 5.8-5.9, 9.6-9.7).
Economically viable and sustainable groundwater development requires a substantial
degree of interaction between engineers, agronomists and farmers which can best be achieved
through active participation of the DOA in project implementation. Adequate budget provision is
required for extension, demonstration and training in tubewell command areas. Since the success
of a public tubewells project depends on the performance of all participating Government
agencies, the importance of close coordination cannot be stressed enough. In UP II which
covered the entire State, the existence of many scattered sites created additional logistic challenges
which neither project management nor monitoring and evaluation or Bank supervision missions
were able to effectively cope with.
For future development of groundwater irrigation, small shallow tubewells privately
owned and operated by individual farmers or small groups of farmers appear to offer the more
attractive alternative to large tubewells. This development has demonstrated viability and



vi
sustainability, as discussed in a separate report (Uttar Pradesh Groundwater Development, Issues
and Options; India Agriculture Operations Division, World Bank, February 1991), and in the
India Irrigation Sector Review (India Agriculture Operations Division, World Bank, December
20, 1991, Report Number. 9518-IN). The development of such wells has been a major success
story in Uttar Pradesh and has been supported through agricultural credit and the free boring
program. Except where aquifer features are suitable for deep tubewells and not suitable for small
shallow tubewells, this appears the most promising future groundwater development option to
pursue (para. 7.3).



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1332-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name             Second Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project
Credit No.               Credit 1332-IN
RVP Unit                 South Asia Region
Country                  India
Sector             :     Agliculture
Sub-sector               Irrigation
2. Background
2.1   Although the average per capita income in India had increased throughout the 1960s and
1970s, growth had been too slow to bring about more than a gradual reduction in the incidence of
poverty. Accordingly, GOI's development plans gave priority to alleviating poverty and creating
employment, especially in rural areas. To support agricultural growth, the Government of India
(GOI) accelerated irrigation development through modernization of existing schemes, and
construction of new schemes and improved agricultural supporting services to optimize the use of
land and water resources.
2.2  In the State of Uttar Pradesh (UP), the state-wide extraction of groundwater at that time
was estimated at only about one-half of the total resources and the Government of Uttar Pradesh
(GOUP) gave priority to groundwater development. The Bank Group had been involved in the
financing of both private and public tubewells in UP, with the public tubewells normally
constructed in areas where gravity irrigation is not feasible and where the potential for
construction of shallow tubewells is limited due to the depth of the aquifer or because
landholdings are too small to allow this type of development. The weakest elements of the
farming population were found to depend on the public sector if their land and groundwater
resources were to be effectively and efficiently utilized, and GOUP considered that there needed
to be a continuing and substantial investment in the public groundwater sector in those areas
where conditions were appropriate to complement the private sector development.
2.3   To assist the State in overcoming the basic shortcomings in their public tubewell
program, the Bank supported the Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewell Project (Cr.1004-IN), later
referred to as UP I, which had been formulated as a two-year (1980/81-1981/82) pilot operation.



2
The primary objective of this first-stage project had been to test and demonstrate improved
tubewell technology through the construction of about 500 public tubewells, before GOUP
undertook a major investment in the new tubewell concept. The scope of the Second UP Public
Tubewells Project (later referred to as UP II) had been cleared by GOI. It reflected the annual
funding available for public sector groundwater development. Consideration had been given to
transition requirements from the first-stage project, so that the existing implementation
momentum would be maintained by the Irrigation Department and other agencies involved.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The project objectives were to alleviate poverty and create rural employment through
improved agricultural production resulting from development of public tubewells. The project
was to finance a four-year (1983/84-1986/87) program incorporating the following elements of
the GOUP development program in the public groundwater sector: (i) construction of about
2,200 improved tubewell irrigation systems with the wells to be located in clusters of about 25
units and connected to the power supply system by separate ('dedicated') 11 kV feeder lines
serving only public tubewells; (ii) connection to the separate 11 kV feeder lines of about 650 old
standard tubewell systems located in the proximity of the new clusters of improved tubewells;
(iii) modernization of about 100 old standard tubewells located in the proximity of the new
clusters; (iv) vehicles, equipment and buildings to be used by project construction, and operation
and maintenance staff; (v) research and development to test advanced technologies for public
tubewells; (vi) project monitoring and evaluation; (vii) training of project staff; and (viii) staff,
vehicles, farm demonstration plots and buildings for agricultural development in the command
areas of project tubewells. In addition, the project was to support GOI's Project Preparation
Fund for financing of consultants, incremental staff, equipment and special studies for the
planning and preparation of irrigation and multi-purpose water resources projects in UP and other
States.
3.2.  Total project costs were estimated at US$192 million equivalent. The credit, Cr.1332-IN
(SDR91.6 million [US$101.0 million equivalent]), co-financed by IFAD Loan 124-IN
(SDR32.0 million [US$35.3 million equivalent]), was to finance all the foreign exchange costs
(about 6% of total project costs) and about 70% of local costs. Overall responsibility for project
implementation was with GOUP's Secretary for Irrigation and Power. Two agencies under his
jurisdiction (the Irrigation Department's Tubewell Wing [IDTW] and the Uttar Pradesh State
Electricity Board [UPSEB]) would implement the project, with the Department of Agriculture
(DOA) being responsible for the agricultural development activities to be provided once the
project tubewells were commissioned. The agricultural impact of the project was to be largely in
terms of an increase in foodgrain production.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1   The availability of groundwater resources in large tracts of UP, and the fact that a large
proportion of small and marginal farmers were still excluded from participation in the utilization
of this resource, provided the basis for Bank support to public groundwater development. The
state tubewells of old design (OSTs) were generally so poor in their operational performance that,
without major technological improvements, further developments would not have been feasible.
UP I was therefore mainly designed to develop and test an innovative technology that would
overcome all major deficiencies experienced with the old systems. In this it partially succeeded.
4.2   While lessons from UP I were applied in UP II, e.g. the provision of dedicated electricity
supply to clusters of wells in order to overcome notorious power supply problems, UP I,



3
because of its short duration and emphasis on technical innovations, did not lend itself to a
reliable assessment of the impact of the new technology on production, and adequate
arrangements for project sustainability.
4.3   It was recognized, however, that a strong participation by the Department of Agriculture,
in the form of providing extension and farmer training in irrigated agriculture, is essential to
project success. Consequently, UP II made provisions for a distinct agricultural project
component to work exclusively for the introduction of effective agriculture in the project tubewell
command areas. However, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was unclear about the Irrigation
Department's and the Department of Agriculture's respective roles in the formation of water
users' groups, water scheduling and farmer training in efficient water use. It appears both
agencies were given the same responsibility in this regard, which caused confusion and
passivity.
4.4   The appraisal mission underestimated the constraints imposed on institution-building by
existing GOUP policies and procedures regarding sanctioning of additional posts, transport
means and office equipment. GOUP has commented that a year should realistically have been
added to enable the institutional build-up and arrangements to be effected. In retrospect, it could
be said that the project was too large for a four-year implementation period, as by the end of that
period, credit disbursement was only half of the appraisal estimate. It would appear that if six
years had been scheduled, the project would essentially have been on target.
5. Project Implementation
5.1    General. What may have appeared to be a fairly straightforward project at appraisal stage
-- the concept of new public tubewells being the same as the first phase projectl and the
construction of improved tubewell irrigation systems representing over 80% of project base costs
-- turned out to be a more complex undertaking than expected. Particularly during its initial
stage, implementation was hampered by insufficient advance planning in construction and
procurement and by poor coordination between the Irrigation and Agricultural Departments, as
well as between the Irrigation Department and the State Electricity Board. These initial delays
and lower than expected unit costs affected disbursement. Moreover, additional funds resulted
from the increase in dollar/SDR and rupee/dollar exchange rates, and by June 1987, i.e. at the
end of the originally planned implementation period, credit disbursements stood at only SDR46.5
million, or 51% of appraisal estimates.
5.2   Following the Central and the State's governments request to utilize fully project funds,
changes in project scope were introduced which consisted mainly in the financing of a further
1,000 improved public tubewells, in addition to the 2,200 foreseen at appraisal. In recognition
of a significantly improved implementation capacity, and considering the further decline in the
value of the rupee, the original credit closing date of March 31, 1988 was extended three times to
the final date of March 31, 1991. By that date, about SDR90.1 million had been disbursed from
the credit and the original targets were exceeded. The credit was fully disbursed in June 1991.
5.3   Tubewell Size. While the 150 m3/hour capacity improved standard tubewell (IST )proved
to be the most universal size tubewell under the conditions of the project areas, there was less
scope than anticipated for the 300 m3/hour capacity IST, serving 200 ha per well. This size of
1     The UP Tubewells I Project was fonnulated as a two-year (1980/81-1981/82) program to test and
demonstrate improved tubewell technology through construction of about 500 tubewells.



4
IST required four instead of two distribution pipe loops, for which fewer suitable sites than
expected could be identified. Additionally, IDTW found that strata and site conditions were
seldom suitable for the larger wells, the discharge was too great to be easily handled by farmers,
the management capacity of tubewell operators was overstretched, and equipment and spares
were less easily interchangeable for such larger wells. The substantial increase in modernized
OSTs from 100 to 450 units was the result of poor actual operating condition of OSTs that were
within the range of the dedicated feeder lines to the planned clusters. Consequently more OSTs
than anticipated were modernized/rehabilitated, in view of GOUP's finding that yields of OSTs
could be substantially improved through modernization.
5.4   Site selection for clusters and individual ISTs were critical planning steps which had been
thoroughly addressed in the SAR but which were not always handled entirely satisfactorily where
political pressure or powerful interests succeeded in biasing technical considerations.2
Frequently, essential planning aids such as soil maps were omitted. Generally, the layouts for
individual ISTs were correct, but pressures imposed by construction targets often led to
insufficient consultation and involvement of farmers in system planning, especially the location
of outlet valves along the distribution loops.
5.5    Ouality standards were difficult to maintain due to the large number of simultaneously
implemented ISTs on widely dispersed sites. The existing qualified and experienced staff were
overstretched by the large number of works being implemented simultaneously. This has
affected tubewell design, drilling and installation as well as pipe distribution systems where
leakage became a common problem. This was often detected too late since, at the appropriate
time for testing of the pipe loops, the pump sets were often not yet energized to provide the flow
and pressure necessary to allow for testing for loosened joints.
5.6   Energization and Power Supply. Tubewell energization was seriously delayed during the
first three to four years of implementaion, due to the time needed to create a separate tubewells
wing within the UPSEB, delayed funding arrangements, and subsequent material shortages.
However, during the second half of the project, conditions improved significantly. Insufficient
data processing capacity so far has precluded a reliable quantification of power availability
vis-a-vis demand. Partial evaluations, however, indicate a range of power supply from 10 to 22
hours per day over a 10-month period, with an average of about 15 hours. While the latter is
close to the appraisal expectation of 16 hours, the variance of supply among the clusters of wells
is excessive. Also, much of the supply appears to have been available at night when demand is
low. Another factor was that the power supply of a cluster of tubewells was connected to one
feeder with a single circuit breaker; hydel breakdown of any of the tubewells could render all the
wells in the cluster inoperative. The power supply has also been hampered by occasional theft of
conductors and transformers and by excessive power fluctuations. Frequent failures of electronic
hour meters which have affected readings and accounting are also reported.
5.7   The large-scale introduction of ISTs was to be accompanied by an appropriate water
charging system based on volumetric pricing instead of using 'flat rates', so as to encourage
efficient water use, introducing some element of accountability in the Irrigation Department and
UPSEB in respect to quality of irrigation services, and reducing the very high levels of subsidy
of public tubewell irrigation. Relevant agreements were included in project covenants but apart
from a study by the Uttar Pradesh Development Systems Corporation (UPDESCO) and a new
2     This observation is not agreed with by IDIW who feel that technical considerations in site selection were
paramount. Similarly, IDTW have commented that, while soil maps were not provided, soil classifications were used. Finaly,
IDTW have commented that farmer involvement was sought in siting and layout planning of ISTs.



5
water charging proposal, which was made with six years delay, little progress has been made.
5.8   The agricultural development component was hampered by an exceptionally slow staff
build-up and denial by GOUP of adequate transport as proposed in the appraisal report. By
September 1985, the Agricultural Development Wing was still 70% short of staff requirements
estimated at appraisal, and, by September 1989, little more than half of the targeted staff
strength had been reached. Ahready in 1990, the Agricultural Development Wing was dissolved
and extension responsibilities handed over to regular Department of Agriculture units or to the
new World Bank-supported extension project. Out of an estimated requirement at appraisal of
104 transport vehicles, only 44 were procured and of these, 35 in Year 4 of the project. The
impact of the program therefore was limited. By 1989, only 16 of 42 districts were included in
the Agricultural Development Wing's project activities. In the districts covered, the extension
program, including multiple cropping demonstrations, introduction of high yielding variety seed,
and fertilizer distribution was reasonably successful, but extension workers were poorly trained,
affecting the adequacy of their recommendations.
5.9   The project provided agricultural service centers in a total of 34 clusters of tubewells, as
against a target of about 220. The centers were originally to include a meeting hall, staff
housing, seed store, and grain store. The latter was omitted as GOUP established the purchase
of grain at fixed prices.
5.10 Irrigation Water and Soil management. There is little evidence that either IDTW or the
Agricultural Development Wing systematically pursued training of extension workers in on-farm
soil and water management. Likewise, field demonstrations mainly stressed the use of inputs
while soil and water management and cropping calendar were given little attention. As one
consequence, water use efficiency has remained very low. From available operators' records for
several thousand ISTs, it is evident that in the majority of command areas, consistently too few
irrigations with too high water depths have been applied.3 It is also reported that a section of
farmers could not handle the standard farm stream of water supply of about 20 Vs for which the
ISTs are designed. This resulted in the use of flood irrigation even for upland crops, where
border strip or furrow irrigation might have been the more appropriate method.
5.11  The project left land levelling to the discretion of water users, assuming that it would not
be required extensively. However, there are numerous cluster areas which need some land
levelling, but advice and assistance to farmers in coping with this problem were not provided
under the project, although referrals were made during implementation of the need for land
levelling to the concerned government department. Another deficiency frequently encountered in
IST command areas was ignorance in seizing the opportunity provided by irrigation to optimize
planting dates, in order to increase yields, especially of paddy and wheat.
5.12 In summary, implementation had been adequately planned at the outset but initial
procurement delays and other start-up problems, together with the subsequent changes in project
scope, led to an increase in civil works to the extent that quality suffered and accompanying
3     An analysis of 805 (kharif 1988) and 898 (rabi 1988/89) ISTs showed an average gross watering depdh of 24
and 17 cm respectively per irrigation, with an average of only two irrigations per season.



6
actions to provide the required 'software' failed to keep pace.4
6. Project Results
6.1    Available data and mission observations indicate a wide divergence in tubewell
perforrnance. In areas where farmers had some prior experience with irrigation, where the social
structure was fairly homogenous and where operation and maintenance and electricity supply
turned out to be efficient and reliable, production performance was excellent. By contrast, in
areas where erratic power supply was coupled with insufficient extension and water management
training, with poor operation and maintenance services, and shortcomings in initial planning, the
benefits from public tubewells did not materialize as anticipated. It would appear that the
adjustments required in changing from rainfed to irrigated farming had been underestimated at
appraisal and that therefore the need for farmers' training in irrigated agriculture did not receive
the necessary attention. The intended strengthening of the Department of Agriculture to
accomplish this task remained far below expectations, as did coordination with the Irrigation
Department.
6.2    Crop production was to increase through irrigation over a total cultivable command area
(CCA) of about 240,000 ha, with a rise in cropping intensity from 120 to 145% and the creation
of an irrigation intensity of 97% at full development. Although field data, mainly through the
Tubewell Wing operator registers, are available from all ISTs, only partial evaluations, which
usually contain data from different stages of irrigation development, have so far been made. The
matter is further confused by survey data since reported by the Department of Agriculture based
on the 1990-91 season. Results, which have not been subject to field verifications in the project
completion exercise, have been reported to yield average irrigation intensities ranging from 88%
(western zone) to 80% (eastern zone) on 2904 operating tubewells. It has not been possible to
comment on these results or the sampling and measurement techniques used. Field observations
indicate substantial variability and indicate cautious use of field data until monitoring and
evaluation techniques have been well established, a matter that has lagged under the project
(paras. 9.6-9.7). To cater to these uncertainties, the economic rate of return (ERR) has been
calculated on the basis of three models enveloping the assessed ranged of typical performances
found.
6.3    The limited data base and diversity within the total sample of wells has been
accommodated in an analysis via three basic tubewell-cum-production models as described in
Attachment 1, Tables 4-6. For these models, the weighted average irrigation intensity at full
development has been estimated at 82%. This is considerably higher than actually achieved
average intensities5 but represents full development and assumes adequate operation and
maintenance standards at costs which are considerably above current allocations.
4      In relation to paragraphs 5.6 to 5.12, GOUP have commented that a matter not sufficiently allowed for at
appraisal was the tine needed to create the organizational setup in UPSEB, the Department of Agriculture, and (partially) in the
Irrigation Department, before the program could get underway at full pace. GOUP have also commented that switching over
from traditional to more advanced agricultural techniques takes tirne in traditional rural communities, and that a start has been
made with positive results observable from survey data.
5      A sample of 805 (kharif 1988) and 898 (rabi 1988/89) number of wells gave an intensity of 56%, reflecting
a stage several years before full development of most wells included. Note, however, the results reported for the 1990-91 season
as commented on in para. 6.2.



7
6.4    Yields for three major crops are expected to reach the following full development levels
(weighted mean of three models-t/ha).6
Paddy               Maize               Wheat
SAR
Without Project            1.1                 0.8                  1.1
With Project               2.7                  1.8                 2.1
PCR
Without Project            1.1                 0.8                  1.1
With Project               2.6                  1.8                 2.5
6.5   From wells that have been under operation for five to six years, it has been estimated that
an average build-up of four years is required to reach full production levels. The build-up in input
use follows the assumption made on yield development, i.e. 60% in year 1, 80% in year 2, 90%
in year 3 and 100% in year 4 after well commissioning.
6.6   The aggregate of incremental production from all project-financed ISTs is based on the
weighted mean of the above three models. Since incremental net benefits which follow the
build-up of ISTs in operation remained far below the levels anticipated at appraisal, the ERR at
completion estimated for the project as a whole is only 1%. For the large majority of ISTs
(Models 2 and 3) the ERR is negative and only Model 1 wells (20% of the total) meet appraisal
expectations. Their ERR is estimated at 23%. This result is a reflection of several negative
factors, including low irrigation efficiency with correspondingly higher unit cost per unit of water
pumped, lower than anticipated irrigation intensity, the occurrence of considerable time lags
between tubewell construction and commissioning, as well as commodity prices lower than
projected at the time of appraisal.
6.7   In analyzing the economic feasibility of the project, no account could be taken of the
insurance value of the tubewells against droughts due to the lack of data. However, comparison
of rainfall data with hours pumped and area irrigated, shows a considerable correlation. In years
with good rainfall, less water was pumped during kharif and vice versa. The insurance role of
ISTs should encourage farmers to risk higher inputs and would thus increase yields even on
those lands of the tubewell commands which are not officially registered as irrigated areas.
Monitoring over a number of years would be required before a valuation of such benefits could
be attempted.
6.8    A socio-economic study conducted in project areas by UPDESCO revealed a considerable
positive impact of the project on farmer mobility (market access) and living standards (village
electrification), in the wake of the construction of access roads to tubewell sites and of electricity
transmission lines to clusters of tubewells.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1    Although the IST technology is operationally much superior to that of the OST, this does
not imply that ISTs are less vulnerable to deterioration due to wear and tear, vandalism, design
faults, and material quality defects, etc. Operation and maintenance provisions therefore are
6     No distinction has been made between the three original project regions, as their difference is minor
compared to other factors affecting yields and production.



8
equally important. The SAR had foreseen this and linked the project to drastic reform of the then
applied cost recovery system, including the abolition of the flat rate electricity tariff and
replacement by metered consumption. Little progress has so far been made. Much will depend
on the successful introduction of an improved water charging system along the lines developed
under the project, which would generate enough revenue to enable GOUP to finance operation
and maintenance at required levels of about Rs.50,000 per IST per year. The present high
subsidy on public tubewell irrigation will eventually have to be reduced, with consequent benefit
in more economical use of water.
7.2   More effort in terms of training, supervision and accountability needs to be invested to
improve the performance of tubewell operators. The availability of sufficient and timely power
supply will remain crucial to sustained tubewell performance. The project-induced linkage
between the Irrigation Department and UPSEB has so far secured a relatively trouble-free
operation through an almost 'preferential' treatment of IST clusters. Maintaining this relationship
would be an important factor in the sustained returns from project investments.
7.3   While efforts can be made to improve and to sustain the quality of government services in
maintenance, repair of wells, provision of electricity and agricultural services, public sector
dependent groundwater irrigation development and exploitation will always be vulnerable to
weaknesses in any of these services, and their dependence on subsidies and the availability of
government funds to cover the costs of the services. Whereas agricultural support and electricity
supply are likely to require continued government support, construction, operation and
maintenance of tubewells need not be in the public domain, as effectively demonstrated in the
case of the spectacular growth of privately owned shallow tubewells in Uttar Pradesh over, in
particular, the last decade. Promotion of private shallow tubewells was considered the more
attractive development option in two -recent World Bank reports (Uttar Pradesh Groundwater
Development, Issues and Options, India Agriculture Operations Division, February 1991); and
India Irrigation Sector Review, India Agriculture Operations Division, December 20, 1991,
Report Number 9518-IN). For existing public tubewells such as those constructed under the
project, alternatives to government maintenance, operation and ownership of the wells were also
discussed in these reports. Efforts to transfer ownership and management are being undertaken
in West Bengal and in Bangladesh, and to date have met with encouraging results in terms of
productivity, better maintenance, and farmer contributions to operation and maintenance costs.
Based on these commnentaries and initial results, this would seem the appropriate direction to take
for the existing public tubewells.
8. Bank Perforrnance
8.1   Through the project the Bank played an active role not only in developing the largely
underutilized groundwater resources of the State of Uttar Pradesh, but also in making these
resources available to the poorer sections of the farm community who so far had little or no
access to groundwater for irrigation. The significance of the project was its large-scale application
of a highly innovative technology, specifically developed in a joint effort between the Bank and
GOUP, and tested in the UP Tubewells I pilot project. The new technology replaced the
old-style 'fishbone'-shaped open channel networks by loops of buried plastic pipe, designed to
permit simple volumetric water delivery to outlet valves, each serving 5 to 8 ha only. The other
substantive improvement over the old State tubewells was the formation of clusters of tubewells
which were power-connected to dedicated feeder lines. Both factors have significantly raised the
potential quality of irrigation service to water users.
8.2   The Bank had anticipated the key role of monitoring and evaluation in this type of project



9
and made adequate provisions. However, despite repeated Bank interventions, including special
consultant visits, the results of monitoring and evaluation activities did not meet requirements
(para 9.6 - 9.7).7
8.3    Although Bank supervision missions repeatedly expressed concern over the slow
utilization of the irrigation potential created by the project, they did little to direct the project
towards rectifying this deficiency. Not until the January 1989 supervision mission was a serious
effort made to address agricultural performance with sufficient vigor. Likewise, no attempt
appears to have been made to identify causes and propose remedies for the extremely poor
irrigation water management which became apparent from tubewell performance records as early
as 1985. The appraisal report was ambiguous in the assignment of responsibility for training in
soil and water management (para 4.3).
8.4    The Bank created a growing awareness in GOUP about the importance of electric power
as an input to groundwater development and was instrumental in introducing a measure of
accountability of the Irrigation Department and UPSEB in respect to the quality of service they
provide.
8.5    Lessons Learned. Project design appears to have relied strongly on the technical
innovations provided vis-a-vis the old State tubewells, while presuming that the availability of a
low-cost and more reliable irrigation system, by itself, would give enough incentive to farmers to
adopt irrigation. However, such linkage did not generally exist. The main obstacle appears to
have been the considerable caution, if not resistance, of subsistence farmers towards a change
from low-input rainfed farming to irrigated farming. In order to achieve this transition, the
project would have had to invest with greater determination in assisting farmers to organize
themselves, in extension, in farmer training, and possibly, credit support.
8.6   In addition, it appears that in the wake of pressures to meet construction targets and
pressures from political interest groups, the important task of selecting suitable sites for clusters
and individual wells was increasingly compromised as the project developed.8 The many
scattered sites created formidable logistic challenges which neither the project management nor
Bank supervision missions were able to effectively cope with. It could thus be argued that the
project was too large and covered too many districts (45) for a four-year implementation period.
This is confirmed by the disbursement of only 51% of the credit by the original project closing
date.
8.7    Heavy reliance was also placed on the proper functioning of water distribution below the
5 to 8 ha outlet (alfalfa valve) on the basis of farmer consensus. However, it appears that this
assumption was too optimistic. With a total of some 48,000 outlets, the establishment of an
equal number of outlet committees ("area day committees") and the provision of farmer training
required a staff strength at least three times that provided by the Agricultural Development Wing
(ADW). Few committees are reported to be active and control of outlet supplies by powerful
farmers is reported to be widely practiced.
7      Progress in establishing monitoring and evaluation systems accelerated in the last year of the projecL
IDTW have commented that monitoring of results should be continued by the Department of Agriculture after project closure, a
matter that would be helpful to assess the progressive impact over time on agricultural productivity.
s      As noted earlier (footnote comment to para. 5.4) this assessment is disputed by IDTW.



10
8.8.  Future IST designs may consider reducing the area served by each outlet, i.e. increasing
the density of outlets, while simultaneously arranging for a greater spread of the outlets within
the command. This could be achieved by substituting the 'straight' loop by a zig-zag pattern
consisting of straight lines of pipe between outlets. In addition, the discharge per outlet (farm
stream) should be reduced from presently 20 liters per second to 15 liters per second or less,
since small farmers have had difficulty in handling the discharges delivered by the ISTs, resulting
in water wastage. In order not to give up the 'area day' principle (one outlet per day per loop
receiving water), a smaller pump discharge and a smaller cultivable command area per IST may
have to be adopted. The possibility of serving two consecutive outlets per loop simultaneously
should also be investigated.
8.9   Project experience shows that leakages from the buried pipe systems are much greater
than anticipated. This has far-reaching consequences since a leaking loop system looses
comparatively more water than a leaking conventional ('fishbone') distribution system, because
for each irrigation turn, the entire loop has to be refilled between irrigations. This deficiency is
amplified by frequent pumping interruptions caused by power cuts or equipment failure. As a
consequence, future ISTs must be designed and built leak-proof or a major advantage of the loop
technology (peripheral system) over the fishbone-type network (radial system) will be lost.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1   Lessons learned from the UP Tubewells I pilot project which had been incorporated in the
formulation of UP Tubewells II (SAR, para 3.07) emphasized the need for: (i) improved
energization/adequate power supply; (ii) simplified operation and maintenance of tubewells; (iii)
improved tubewell development planning; (iv) improved agricultural services for tubewell
commands; and (v) improved cost recovery and tariff levels to reflect standard of irrigation
service.
9.2   The project succeeded in fully implementing the physical provisions made for adequate
power supply, i.e. all project ISTs and modernized OSTs were connected to dedicated feeder
lines. The potential operational benefits resulting from this improved energization, i.e. more
regular power supply with less voltage fluctuations, were largely achieved, although in absolute
terms, power supply lagged behind expectations. This was due to a continued shortfall in UP's
overall energy supply, currently about 13% but planned to be completely made up within about
two years.
9.3   Energy charges continue to be calculated using a subsidized tariff structure. The
agreement that UPSEB would charge the Irrigation Department for electricity on a metered basis
that reflects actual power consumption and costs has thus not been met. Farmer payments of
water charges are substantially below the costs of government provisions of electricity.
9.4   The system of operation and maintenance in ISTs, largely due to pump automation,
simplified accounting of water consumed (hour meter) and water distribution has been vastly
improved as compared to the traditional OSTs. However, although the latter were heavily
dependent on the integrity of the tubewell operator, even the new technology leaves scope for
mismanagement and manipulation of records. Consequently, violation of the operator's code of
conduct has been widely observed. More vigilance by responsible operation and maintenance
staff and provision for preventative and/or punitive action needs to be introduced.
9.5   Although adequate provisions had been made for the establishment of an agricultural
development component that could concentrate fully on optimizing irrigated farming in tubewell



11
command areas, the resulting ADW, due to lack of support from within DOA, as well as funding
and coordination problems with IDTW, never reached the required strength and impact (para
5.8). This has had a very damaging effect on project performance. ADW's weakness is
reflected in lower than expected irrigation intensities, low water use efficiency, low yields and
even in the lack of proper agricultural performance evaluations. Because of lack of support from
within its own department, as well as apparent indifference from IDTW, the ADW did not
identify itself with the project and thus itself became indifferent. This was probably stimulated
by the prospect for staff that the ADW would be dissolved at project closure. In fact, it ceased to
exist even before.
9.6   Despite a very detailed specification of objectives, scope, range of activities, and adequate
finance, the monitoring and evaluation performance of the project failed to provide project
management with the performance indicators necessary for both advance planning and
rectification of deficiencies. This was despite well organized and consistent recording of field
data. It is unfortunate that GOUP failed to provide the two Monitoring and Evaluation units (in
IDTW and ADW) with adequate facilities to handle a daily data flow from several thousand
tubewells. Already in 1985, it had become clear that the computer facilities available in the
Irrigation Department would not accommodate the very large computer processing requirements
of the project. Consequently, a Bank supervision mission in 1985 proposed that IDTW and
ADW should establish their own computer processing capability. However, although project
management went through lengthy application processes, the sanctioning of equipment and staff
was delayed.
9.7   A further attempt to rectify the unsatisfactory monitoring and evaluation performance was
made by a Bank mission in 1988, which recommended the procurement of several desk-top and
portable mini-computers, as well as two data entry terminals linked to the existing mainframe
computers at the Irrigation Department and UPDESCO. Although this proposal was followed up
to some extent by the time of project closure, only one desk-top computer had been put into
operation. Meanwhile, the raw data from the field reached substantial proportions, although
progress picked up in 1991, and processing is expected to require several years. The opportunity
lost by leaving this wealth of information almost unused is immense. It has not only affected
project performance, but also impeded forward planning including a decision on the future course
of action in tubewell development in Uttar Pradesh.
9.8   Lessons Learned. Since success or failure of a public tubewells project such as UP II
depends on the performnance of several Government agencies (ID, DOA, UPSEB), of which no
single one can be made accountable alone, the only way to secure overall project success is close
coordination of all aspects of implementation between the agencies concerned. For maximum
production impact, the site selection of public tubewells should be based on technical and
economical considerations and the interest expressed by farmers to group together to manage
such an investment, while political considerations should rank low.
9.9   Despite public tubewell water being comparatively inexpensive at farm level the irrigation
intensity in project ISTs has remained lower than expected. Two likely causes appear to be: (a)
incorrect siting of outlets, leaving certain areas out of command; and (b) the incompleteness of
the field channel system below the outlet. Both causes may reduce the effective command area of
tubewells by up to 30%. The matter should be studied in detail and deficiencies eliminated.
9.10  The estimated low rate of return of the project demonstrates that even with the improved
tubewell technology adopted, investment in public tubewell development is not necessarily
economically viable. Public involvement in further tubewell development therefore should be



12
reassessed, while at the same time improving the performance of existing public tubewells, in
particular the more than 4,000 ISTs installed under UP I and H. The aim should be both to
improve productivity and to reduce the recurrent financial burden to GOUP. The possibility of
handing over ISTs to village panchayats appears to hold potentials for resolving most of the
problems now encountered and should be implemented on a trial basis as soon as possible.
Simultaneously, extension efforts should be continued. Operation and maintenance services need
to be put on a sustainable basis through adoption of the improved cost recovery system conceived
under the project. Monitoring and evaluation of tubewell and agricultural performance data
should be given high priority as a vital tool for corrective intervention and sustained use of the
irrigation potential created.
10. Project Relationship
10.1 The Bank maintained good relationships with GOI and GOUP through its resident
mission. This was of particular significance when the borrower faced severe budget constraints.
The Bank responded positively to Government's request to increase the Bank's share in the
financing of civil works and of equipment and materials and, as of 1 July 1987, the Bank's
share was increased from the original 55% to 70%. IFAD, who co-financed the credit,
participated in one of the supervision missions.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1  Consulting services were not foreseen at appraisal. However the study agreed upon to be
carried out by GOUP was undertaken by UPDES CO, a semi-govemmental institution.
12.    Pject Documentation and Da
12.1 The SAR, including its supplementary data volume, provided an excellent framework for
project implementation. The provisions of the legal agreements were generally observed (Part
III, 7).
12.2 In para 4.20, the SAR quotes an agreement reached with GOUP that UPSEB would
"energize each project tubewell system within two months of its completion". It appears that this
has been interpreted (incorrectly) as meaning that energization should only be done after a
tubewell system, including the distribution system, has been completed. This has generally had
the negative effect that energization came too late to enable testing of the pipe distribution system
immediately after its assembly and before backfilling the trenches for the buried pipe system,
because the regular pump set could not be used at that time.



13
PART II. BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON PARTS I AND III OF THE PCR
SECOND UP PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1332-IN/IFAD LoanT 124-IN)
Comments On Project Completion Report
PREFACE
A draft P-roject Completion Report (PCR) Parts I and
Ill, prepared by an FAO/CP mission based on its visit to India
ln Feb/March 1991, was forwarded to DOI, GOUP for its comments.
The mission. in its evaluation summary. has opined that
despite 'shortcomings the project's main quantitative objectives
were met". It has also estimated that the number of benefitted
farmer families were 6.6 lacs i.e. 50% more than SAR value, the
increase in irrigable area was 3.85 lac hectare i.e. more than
60% of SAR estimates and expressed in 1990/91 Rupees, the average
per capita income from farming with project has increased by
Rs.328 or by 290% whi,ch compared well with an anticipated figure
of 206% in the SAR.
The SAR had estimated an Economic Rate of Return ( ERR)
of 32% which took interest on capital and depreciation into
account. Although feeling handicapped by a paucity of data, the
PCR, Taevertheless, calculates this ERR as just 1%. The estimate
of ERR in the project report by GOUP was 51.73% excluding
interest  on  capital  and  depreciation  but  providing  for  a
depreciation reserve fund. Ba4ed on similar lines'an analysis
presented  in this  document,  calculates  ERR as  48.7%.  This
analysis uses a much wider database of tubewells than the PCR
did.
On  the  ba.s4 s  of  this  wider  database  the  main
performance indicators have been evaluated. The department of
Agriculture (DOA) has surveyed almost the entire project area and
has arrived  at a  figure  of 86% overall  for  the  irriaation
intensity which has been worked out by PCR as 82% against an
estimated 97% by SAR. Cropping intensity was estimated by SAR to
reach 160% in the western and central zone and 140% in the



14
eastern zone. PCR has worked this out as 152% overall while based
on its survey, the LOA has estimated these as 1.61%. 143% and 150%
respectively for these zones and overall 153%. Productivity of
wheat was targeted in the SAR as 2.6 t/ha. PCR has worked this
out as 2.5 t/ha. DOA has also estimated it as 2.5 t/ha. Similarly
Productivity of paddy was  envisaged In the SAR as 2.8 t/ha. PCR
and DOA have estimated it to be 2.6 t/ha and 2.86 t/ha
respectively.
The low assessment of ERR in the PCR can rightly be
attributed  to the  limited  database and  the  very attempt  of
Project evaluation without providing for a reasonable buiLd up
period for the tubewell system, which was necessary as per
missions view itself. An attempt, however, has been made here to
wipe out these handicaps by making use of a wider database of
tubewells that had run for longer period, in order to be nearer
the truth.
(A hoka Kumnar )
Chief ngineer,Tubewells
(World Bank / Indo Dutch)
Irrigation Department,U.P.
Lucknow.



15
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS ON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR 1T
INTRODUCTION
A Project  Completion  Report  (PCR)-Part-t.and  111,
prepared by an FAO/CF mission based on a visit to India in
February/March, 1991 and review of Bank records has been received
by DOI,  GOUP  for   comments. The parawise  comments have  been
prepared. These comments have been summarised below.
OBJECTIVES AND MAIN FEATURES
The objective of the project was to alleviate poverty
and  create  rural  employment.  This  was  to  be  done  by  (i)
construction of about 2,200 improved tubewell irrigation systems
which was successfully tried and tested on a pilot basis under
a similar project called UPI, (ii) connection of about 650 old
Standard  Tubewell  systems  to  'dedicated"  feeders  and  (iii)
modernization of about 100 old Standard Tubewells. With these
features  certain  targets  of  cropping  intensity,  irrigation
Intensity, productivity, use of improved variety of seeds and
other agriculture inputs etc were aimed at in the SAR by way of
impact evaluation parameters. Tables attached with the main set
of comments show that these targets have been adequately met
with.
In the background of this project was the imperative
need to exploit ground -water in the State in view of the
diminishing  scope  of  surface  water  utilization,  successful
implementation of UPI, and the view of SAR that public tubewell
development might offer considerable savings to UPSEB as compared
to private tubewell development in terms of capital investments
and running costs.
The success of UPI can be attributed to its improved
technology and efficiency in management due to i-ts small size;
district  level  coordination  between  DO1  and  DOA  staff  on
deputation to DOI; and utilisation of existing district level set
up of UPSEB. The present project put the lessons learnt from UPI
to good use but introduction of the concept of separate wings
within DOA and UPSEB was a new one. The creation of these wings



16
took time. During this build up period there were initial delays
in energiz-ation buYfthe-backlog was made good with higher pace
in the latter part of -the project implementation. The efiect on
DOA is discussed late-r on.
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANISATION
The SAR had thoroughly analyzed UPI and assessed it to
have n substantially fulfilled". The PCR on the other hand, has
labelled it as having "partially succeeded". Reasons for this
change of view have not beeh elaborated in the PCR.
IMPLEMEtNTATION EXPERIENCE
The initial delays in energization were not because
there was not enough advance planning but rather on account of
the inadequate provision of time for organisational build up in
UPSES although the effect of these delays was more then
neutralised subsequently by effective .percolation o.f top level
coordination between UPSEB and DOI  to the grass root  level
through multilevel periodical meetings. Full effect of a similar
top level  coordination could not reach   the field  level  in
respect of agriculture work but even then the  achievement on.
this front was satisfactory as will be seen in the tables showing
the agricultural parameters, thanks perhaps to the effect of
regular extension services of DOA through its existing network.
Technical parameters were paramount in selection of
tubewelis/clusters. There was- full involvement of command farmers'^
at all stages of finalisatlon of outlets. The performance of ISTs
when compared to OSTs and the deep study of prospective areas
before they were taken up for consideration as, clusters, prompted!
the change in the number of OSTs taken up for modernization.'i ?
Another change was in the number of ISTs of 300 M-3 per hour.
This was more due to lesser availability than expected in SAR,
of sites and strata among other things. Quality control was
strictly maintained but a small, statistically insignificant,
percentage of leakages could not be ruled out specially during
initial running. The performance of UPSES in energization of ISTs
reached satisfactory levels after a couple of earlier years. The
advent of dedicated feeders some times made available more than



17
16 hours of electricity per day on some tubewells. There was a
disadvantage too. There being no provision of circuit breakers
on  the Tee-of fs. in- the feeder, any breakdown in any part of the
feeder rendered all the tubewells on the feeder Powerless.
Inspite of the slow build up of staff in the DOA. it
has been possible to achieve estimated figures of cropping
intensity, productivity, use of fertili_ers etc by proper field
training and persuasion of farmers by extension workers of the
ADW of the project. More needs to be done as the figures of water
depth are still high. This will be reduced with better
agricultural practices l'ikely to be adopted with the passage of
time.
PROJECT RESULTS
The mission appraisal  is based on the assessment of
Performance of 42e ISTs only which were operative by 3/86. The
number is not only too small to enable anyone to arrive at a
fair and reasonable conclusion but the time of study also appears
to be cuite early as compared to the time span of 6 to 8 years
required for complete build up of the system as envisaged in the
SAR and hence felt  reasonable for assessment of the full impact
of the Project. The mission, while appreciating this point of
view in the Para 6.7 of the evaluation report, has for obvious
reasons ventured into this exercise on the basis of such a meagre
database.
The  project  results,  when analyzed  over  a   wider
database of 2904 tubewells spread over the entire project area,
for the year 1990-91 i.e. after providing another couple of years
for the necessary buildup of the system, depict entirely
different and quite. encouraging results. As evident from the
detailed commentary on the evaluation report in   the ensuing
paragraphs, despite the wide range of varying performance of the
individual ISTs with respect to- time and  place-depending upon
numerous variables, such as qualitative and quantitative
difference in power supply, regional and periodical Imbalance
in the occurrence of rains, variance in the cropping pattern and
degree of adaptability of innovative agricultural practices
depending upon varying socda-economic conditions etc-the



18
agricultural impact, as expres.sed in terms. of increa-se in food
grain production, has been enormous. The cropping intensity has
increased from 130.37% to 173.9% as against estimated average
figures of 160%,160% and 140% respectively for the' we'stern,
central and eastern zones as per figures of the baseline survey
by the DOA.Ac.cord-ing to the report of the evaluation survey the
figures achieved for the three zones are 161.3%,143.3% and 150.2%
respectively. Likewise Irrigation intensity in these three zones
has also gone upto 88%,87% and 79.6% respectively against the
project targets of 97%.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
0 & M provisions have been increased. Two part tariff
is being charged by UPSEB. The revision of water rates based on
an independent study by UPDESCO is under active consideration of
GOUP. The preferential treatment to ISTs by UPSEB has continued.
The tubewell operators are being trained regularly and have also
been made accountable. Punitive action has been taken against
delinquent operators.
BANK PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
No comments have been offered on Bank performance.
Computers have been Installed in DOI and DOA, for monitoring and
evaluation.  Bank support may be needed by DOA for continued
*   monitoring and evaluation  of the exploitation of the potential
created by'the project.
With the passage of time the reliability of *ISTs has
been accepted and results are coming'up.' As 'already stressed
earlier, technical 'considerations have always been paramount in
site se1ectI-on and nothing including aI'leged'political'pressure,
was allowed to override these. The implementation of the project
has been satisfactory and it was never felt too large a project
because of DIO's long experience in handling 'projects of this
size.
Each area day committee was an independent entity and
was fully effective in managing the aftairs related with water
sharing by 5 to 15 farmer families. The possibility of reducing



19
the command per outlet can be considered in future JST design.
The r  deft-rtb&-reaka-ges-are only at the time of initial running of
tubewells (Para 5.51
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
.Energy  char,ges  are  levied  by UPSEB  on  ISTs  on  a
'two-part' tariff basis. Hourmeters keep a check on tubewell
operators. In case of tubewells without hourmeters, local enquiry
method is used for accounting of irrigation done by the tubewell.
Coordination at all levels no doubt is required for successful
completion of a project.
Monitoring of daily data flow was manually done at
field  levels 'with  abstracted  data  being  submitted  to  top
management for evaluation and control which resulted in faster
implementation in later years. The inadequacy of Computer
facility with D10 was  removed with the installation of more
computers  lest  it be  lost.  The  old data  is now being  fed
gradually into Computers alongwith the latest data. A tubewell
monitoring system has  been  developed. To receive  daily  data
of   tubewells,      transmission  through satellite network  is
underway.
Irrigation intensities have been reasonably achieved
(para 6.2 and 6.3). An analysis over a larger database than used
by the mission, has given an ERR of 48%. This analysis, however.
ignores interest and life of tubewell system but provides for a
depreciation reserve fund. The running hours for Kharif and Rabi
are well over the respective critical values as assessed in SAR.
Handing over of tubewells to panchayat is to be tried on a few
tubewells first before it can be implemented on majority of
tubewells.



2Q
Pro  iec         C cm     1 et i om  r          Cmor t
Part I
I         Proiect Identity           Needs no comments.
2         Back Groun4d
2.1        Indian ec=nomv is primarily agricultural. Any effort
towards economic uplift or poverty alleviation obviously
depends on -the growth of agriculture sector. It has been
the aim of GOI to enccourage this growth by giving full
governmental support which includes various subsidies
inter alia , to agricultural  sector as this sector is a
"high risk low return' activity. A primary cause of the
risk aspect  is the dependence of agriculture  on rains.
Irrigation. therefore. ls a crucial input and is on high
priority with GOI.
2.2       UP  state is very rich in  surface  water as  well  as
groundwater resource. There is lesser scope. however, for
further develooment in use of surface water irrigation. In
addition to the reasons mentioned by mission report. the
bank group had agreed to finance the development of public
tubewell system on following grounds:'
2.2.1           Land holdings of average farmers of UP was 0.6 ha
and so the major group of farmers came under the category
of small and marginal farmers I.e. below the level of
poverty. They were unable to improve their cultivation and
could ill afford their own means of irrigation and were
dependent on state owned tubewells.
2.2.2     UP had only 50% irrigated area and balance cultivation.,
was dependent on rains only. Irrigated crops- or crops of,
high yie4lding variety couLd not be sown by smalL., and.
marginal farmer in these rainfed areas nor could they think
of using modern agriculture practices till state owned
public tubewells were installed.
2.2.3     As per  study  conducted by  World  Bank ( refer SAR
supplementary  data volume annexure 8/page  7. 8)  it was
revealed  that  " public  tubewell  development  may  offer
considerable  savings  to  UPSEB  as  compared  to  private
tubewell development in terms of capltal investments and



21
running costs as detailed below":--
(a)  Connection cost would be Rs 700 per hectare for a 150
m-3._ per_hour. ..public _tubaweli  and Rs 2470  to  3088  per
hectare for private tubewell.
(b) A cluster of 25 ISTs and dedicated feeder line would
have an (1) average power demand of 375 kVA and would serve
2500 hectare. while if the cluster area is replaced fully
by private tubewells. the connected load would be 3300 kVA.
(c) The current drawn by private tubewells irrigating 100
hectare would be about nine times more than the current
drawn by one public tubewell during the same peak period
for OO hectare.
(d)  Wire to water efficiency is in the range of 50-60% in
case of IST and 20 to 30 % in case of private tubewell."
2.2.4      The OSTs were not economically viable due to many
shortcomings  in the  system and management.  The  IST of
improved technology and management system installed in UP
Public T.W. Project Phase 1. had proved to be a good system
to go  with  ( as per SAR para 3.06 page 15 )
2.3        UP-I which was a pilot project. proved to be a good
success  in  respect  of  its  planing  implementation  and
operation due to the following reasons:
(a)  It was a small project to manage and to have proper
monitoring, planning and quality control.
(b) Agricultural staff such as agricultural officers and
agricultural supervisors, were taken on deputation from.DOA.
and placed with operation and maintenances staff under the
control of executive engineer 'O&M' to. have regular day to
day coordination'between irrigation and agr.icultural-staff
thus facilitating implementation of programme to increase
-the agricultural growth. The SAR . however, mentions that
there were difficulties  in "securing dedicated staff on
deputation from the DQA to ID  "  ( para 5.23 of SAR page
39).
(c)  UPSES was energizing  public tubewells  by  the then
existing  district  level  set  up.  resulting  in  higher
efficiency both in quality as well as in quantity.



22
3         Prolect obiectives and descriotions
3.1       Needs no comments.
3 . 2      In addition to the-comments of the repor-t, the k2ank h-as- --
specifically emphasised to setup separate wings for these
public tubewells with in the UPSEB and DOA to be headed by
chief    engineer   and    joint   director    agricultural
resp4ctively. A project coordination committee headed by
E-in-chief (irrigation), to meet once a month, had been set
up  to  coordinate,   monitor  and  evaluate  the  project
implementation.  As  the  quantum  of  work  of  UPSEB  and
agriculture was smaller, one unit each from both UPSES and
agriculture ( a division and an agriculture officer
respectively ) had to plan, supervise and control'the work
for five to six district at a time. It is important to note
that  the  pilot  project  of  UP-Il  named  as  UP-I  was  a
successful model. But the bank, while setting the guideline
for  UP-II.  made  two  important  deviation  in  respect  of
arrangemeint for energization and supplementing agriculture
extensions. This has affected the implementation and
performance of the project.
3.3       The sole objective of the project was, and it could not
be otherwise, to alleviate poverty and to create rural
employment      ( ref. para 1.06 page 2 SAR).
4         Project design and organization
4.1.1     UP I had shown a. remarkable  impact on  agricultural
development-and production due to the follow-ing, elements.:-
(a)  Technical improvement of the system             ,
(b)  Part  time  tubewell  operator  being  present: in  the
village  itself,-_runnirrg  the  tubewelis  and  recording
irrigation data.
(c)  New water management systems.
(d)  On-farm training of farmers through demonstrations
exhibitions,  faLrs and film shows organised with mutual
coordination of irrigatIon and agricultural field staff at
divisional level itself.
(e)       The provision of dedicated feeder  lines, which
was not there in the initial stages of phase I project.



23
This concept of providing a reliable power supply with
dedicated   feeder,  line   came   after   the   expiry   of
approximately two years of UP I.
4.1.2      It is not clear as to what  made the bank  to
change  its  earlier  assessment  of  UP-I  from  having
substantially  fulfilledc   its primary  objective.  (Refer
para 3.06 page 15 of SAR) to having "partially succeeded".
It is worthwhile to recall that the majority of project
beneficiaries are small and marginal farmers.
4.2        Needs no comments.
4.3      While there was least confusion about DOls clear domain
over the role of formation of water users' groups and water
scheduling a separate wing was created with in DOA for
better and effective agriculture extension service, which
includes farmer training in   efficient water use, but the
coordination of irrigation and agricultural planning and
implementation had been removed from field level, a most
effective component of substantial success of phase I, and
shifted to central coordinating committee, but some how
this top level co-operation could not percolate effectively
to the field level, causing a delinking of day to day co-
,ordination there, which affected the training of farmers
for the optimum  use of the water and other inputs.
4.4       It is agreed that some initial period of say at least
one year, should have been provided in the project for new
organizational build upAin UPSEB and DOA as well as  in
irrigation department. It  may be taken as a lesson learnt
for future.
5.         Project implementation
5.1        As -,stated '"above the  project  implementation,   and
consequently  disbursement  was *affected  in  the  initial
stages due to the following-
(a)  Creation and building up of a separate UPSEB   and
agricultural wing naturally took some time.
(b)  Lack of day to day coordination between irrigation and
agricultural staff at field level.



24
(c)  Bigger jurLsdiction of executing officers of UPSEB and
DOA  rendering  project' monitoring  and   implementation
difficult.
5.2       Needs no comments.
5.3.1     The IST of 300 m^3 per  hour  had  been  reduced   due
to the following reasons:-
(a)  Against expectations,  thre strata conditions were not
found    suitable  to  deliver  300    m^3  por  hour  as
anticipated.
(b)  Availability of fewer sites conforming to technical
parameters and economic configuration of distribution
system.
(c)  Difficulty in handli'ng and distribution of 300 m^3 per
hour discharge during the low demand period, which occurs
quite often.
(d)  One tubewell operator was inadequate to operate and
manage 200 hectare command and outlets of four loop system.
(e) Less inter-changeability of equipments and spares.
S.3.2     Modernization of 100 OSTs only was proposed  initially
on an experimental basis on the general survey of OSTs in
order to put them at par with ISTs. The difference between
the  performance  of  the  ISTs  vis-a-vis  OSTs  was' so
pronounced  that during executlon of  the         project,   a'
larger number of  OSTs had to be taken up for modernization
due  to  their  inadequate  and  dilapidated  distribution
system, a  line of  thought  which has  continued  in the..
framing of Illrd UP Public Tubewell Project.
5.4        It in not correct to say _tthat  powerful interest or.
political  pressure,  biased  *technical "consideration  In        e
selection of clusters. Looking to the needs of farmers, the
public  representatives  recommended  certain  areas  for
construction  of  public  tubewell  clusters  in order  to
provide them with irrigation facilities. The clusters in
these cases, were sited only after survey and selection
under the laid technical parameters. There was no specific
provision of soil maps as an essential technical planning
aid for site selections, however, classification of soil,



*25
its fertility and  land class has always been given due
consideration for selection of PTW clusters. Consultation
and involvement of farmers had been ensured at various
stages as mentioned below:-
(a)  At the time of proposing the outlets by survey staff
in field.
*      (.b)  At  the  time  of  spot  checking  of  outlets  by  the
divisional officers
(c)  Objections of farmers. if still left, were being heard
and decided at the time of execution and laying of pipe
*  '   line.
(d)  when  the  tubewell  came  in  operation,  any  field
reported to be unirrigated by the system, was given the
facility of additional outlet or field channel in
consultation with farmers. Such cases occurred on account
of passive response by a few farmers who did not pay any
attention at the time of  (aY, (b) & tc) above but the
tubewell was handed over to 0 & M   division only after
ensuring that water reached each and every field within the
command of -the tubewell by gravity flow. The pressure of
construction target, how-so-ever strong it might have been,
was never allowed to by pass the steps mentioned above.
5.5       Quality standards
DOI of GOUP'htas already  an  experience of  more
than   half   century  ,in   tubewell   design,   drilling,
installation and.,maintenance- In fact it can be said to be
the 'pioneer' in this field in the country and so.it is.not
fair ,to say .that,there,was a.-,dearth of qualifIed staff or
there was any.,.difficulty on,jthi.sv.account..in ma.inta.ning.
quality standards on simultaneously, executed work.on-.w.idel.y.
dispersed sites.
The leakages noticed initially cannot be termed as
deficiencies in quality. As obvious 'consequence of water
thrust on a pipe line, some of the joints getting loose, is
not unexpected at the time of initial run of water through



26
* p pe  -y3tem. Such leakages, howev!r. were repaired in due
course.  These are  part of  teething problem only.  These
could be detected only after energisation of'the.tubewell.
5.6   Ener2ization and Power suoolv-AS stated earlier, the
creation   of  a  separate  wing  within  UPSE9  as  per
recommenda-tion of World''ank, which took nearly one year to
establish it self. did hamper the progress.of energi_ation
in tne initial stages and the back-log, so created, was no
match to the material arranged resulting in further delay
for the subsequent few years. But in the later part of the
project, the progress of energization was very much in tune
with the programme. In fact the power supplied to various
dedicated feeders was above the scheduled 16 hours a day.
But as all the tubewells of a cluster are connected to one
feeder with just a circuit breaker at the substation. the
hydel breakdown of any of these tubewells could render all
the tubewells on the feeder non functional, thereby
reducing  the  average  power  supply  per  day  in  that
particular fortnight. More over, in order to attend hydel
defect of-any tubewell, shutdown has to be taken for whole
of the cluster, causing reduction in the average hours of
power supply. This is the main cause of variance in power
supply observed by the mission. It is not  correct to say
that the power supply had been hampered due to excessive
power fluctuations. Studies and corrective steps are being
taken to minimise the failure of hourmeters but adequate
checks have always been exercised  to prevent any adverse
effect of the same in recording irrigation.
5.7        A 'detailed study  had  been got  done by  UPDESCO for
the revision of water rates and the same is under active-
consideration of GOUP.
5.8        It is agreed that agricultural wing could not be buIlt
up with the  desired speed , but Annexure 5 to 12  show
increase in the cropping intensity, cro.p production, use.of
fertilizers,  improved  variety  of  seeds,  insecticides  &
pesticides, and the number of watering with reduction In
water depth which would not have been attained otherwise,



21
than witnh proper field training and persua-iion of farmers
by extenslon workers of AD.W of the proj-rt over Fha ore-
project  ground work done by the existing  network of the
DOA.
5.9        Needs'no comments.
5. 10      As  stated above, the  extension  workers  .thr.ough
frequent  demonstrations  and  persuasion  emphasised  the
economics-of water management and cropping pattern to the
farmers which caused reduction in water depth per watering
and  upcoming  of  zaid  crops  and  vegetables,  pulses  and
oilseeds on ISTs as evident from annexure 5. 9 & 21.
Even then the water depth continued to be high because
the soil which was being deprived of irrigation and
fertilizer earlier, was lighter (sandy) and undulated  in
nature. The condition of the soil will definitely change
with  passage  of  time  as  a  consequence  of  irrigation
facilities provided now and thus the water depth shall be
reduced to desired level.
5.11       There was no provision of land levelling In the project
as it was left to the discretion of the water user.- It is
important to note, however,  that wherever site conditions
required  the  matter  was  referred  to  the  concern'sd
department which took up tho job. The farmers were told
about the optimum.period of sowing of various crops while
demonstrating the HYV seeds to them but the traditionalism
which  Is a dominant  factor  in the minds of  illiterate
farmers- a fact recognised by the mission report itself-
would not permit them to adopt the same. The adoption of
now agricultural. techniques and its econ vy by the farmers
shall take place with a passage of at least six to seven
years. It is worthwhile to quote from the report of UPDESCO
on "socia- economic evaluation of Public Tubewell Phase 11
-  page-13  "SocLal  Customs.  Attitudes  and  the Human
factor:"
The social values, motivations, attitudes and other
human qualities play an important role in the process of
economic    change.    though    these    defy    statistical



28
quantification.  In the  irrigation  systems,  as  in other
development *aspects.. these  piay  important,  role.  The
importance of these factors in Indian economic developme_nt.
has been described effectively by Kusum Nair who found 'that
the peasant communities differ not only in their attitude
to manual work, but also in respect of other traits and
aptitudes like thrift,  industry, mobility & readiness to
exploit economic opportunity. These vary greatly from one
community to the next, within groups In the same region and
even locality otherwise enjoying in all respects equal
resource and opportunities'
5.12      The main factor was the lack of  allowance for 'time
required for building up of the organisational setup in
UPSEB, DOA and partially in DOI before the programme could
get into  full  swing.  As stated  by the mission  in the
foregoing paragraphs the SAR did not fully realise the
effect of creating separate wings in DOA and UPSEB for
implementation of the project which resulted in longer
built up time and lack of coordination at grassroots level.
6         Project Results
6.1        It is agreed that there is a wide variation in the
performance of different tubewell in a particular year and
further more in the performance of a particular tubewell
from year to year. There are so many reasons for the same,
such as dependence on power, which varies from'cluster to
cluster and year to year; periodical and regional imbalance
In the'occurrence of rains; diversity in eating habits of
farmers in various regions; traditionalism, orthodoxism-and
illiteracy prevaiting in rural areas-restrltin'in variance
in the cropping pattern;''Such'varying performance should
not have formed the basis for evaluation of benefits or the
outcome of the project. As stated in the para 3.2 of the
mission's report,  the agricultural  impact of the project
was to be largely In terms of an increase in food grain
production which has increased substantially as per



29
.
annexure 8 & 12. The increase in production has been worked
o4t on the basis of baseline study cbnducted by DOA c2oupled
with the performance of tubewell during 1990-91.
6.2        Cropping  intensity  has   risen   form   130.37%   to
173.97% as against project estimates of 160%. 160% and 140%
for western.-central and eastern zone respectively and the
irrigation  intensity  has  risen  to  88%.  87%  &  79.6%
respectivvly for these zones against the project target of
97%. This is based on data collected for 2904 tubewells,
running in 1990-91.
6.3        The cropping intensity in various crops computed from
the wider data base available now have been found to be
remarkably good as shown in annexure-19.
6.4        Needs no comment.
6.5        By March '86 only 428 ISTs  were  operative  that  had
completed five to six years by the time of mission's visit.
This figure is too small to come to any conclusion, so far
as the project benefits are concerned.  Further the four
year build up period as foreseen in SAR is also too small
a period  for full development of tubewell command areas as
the  Indian  farmers  are  most  reluctant  to  change  their-
cropping   pattern   etc  due   to  their   traditionalism,
orthodoxism and  diversity in eating habits in different
regions. These factors do change with passage of time and
building up of confidence in farmers due to their economic
development  and  it can  be  safely  guessed  that  in  the-
present Indian conditions a period of 6-8 years is
necessary for realizing the full  impact of the project,
which would have been most opportunate time to assess the
ultimate benefit of the project.
6.6        We do not agree with the assessment made by mission on
the basis of three models which are based on data of very
few ISTs. The data of 2904 1ST have been collected and
processed for economic analysis as presented in part Ilil of
these comments. The incremental net benefit has been worked
out in Annexure 6 & 12 for Kharif & Rabi separately.



30
6. 7      Tha  insurance  role  of the  IST's i.e.  protective
irrigation. hasbeen well appreciated by the mission . [t is
interesting--to note-that the mission has also appreciated
that " Monitoring over a number of years would be required
before valuation of such benefits could be attempted" a
view which supports ours (para 6.6 above)
6.8        Needs no comments.
7         Protect Sustainability.
7.1       Since the preparation of SAR   the 0 & M provisions
have been increased,, metered consumption along with flat
rate power tariff has been adopted for the ISTs. Revision
of water rates based on an independent study by UPDESCO Is
under active consideration of GOUP.  It is evident  from
above that considerable work has been done to ensure the
sustainablity of the project.
7.2       Tubewel I' operators are being trained  by  irrigation
and agricultural officers individually at the tubewell .nd
often collectively at cluster building, before they are put
on the job as well as during their service period. UPSEB
has  been  giving  priority  to  the  monitoring  of  power
supplied to the IST feeders and will continue to do so.
8.        Bank Performance
8.1       Needs no comments.
8.2       A computerised mo.nitoring and evaluation system has
since been established. in DOI. In the DOA, the evaluation
had been done in the first instance upto 88-89 only for 33
tubewells representing 33 cluster spread over, the entire
project area. Subsequently data for 103  clusters in all.
have been processed. It Is recommended that the bank should,
consider the continued evaluation of ISTs of Phase II by
DOA till the maturity period of the project i.e. six years
from the completion of the project by DOI(June 1991).
8.3       Needs no comments.
8.4       Needs no comments.
8.5       Lessons learned:
The farmers were sceptical in the initial y-ars about
the reliabillty of IST in view of their  long experience



31
with  OSTs. But with the passage of time. the reliability
an the system was accepted and the results are appearing
in  the  form  cf  changes  in aqri-cu+tural- practices  and--
incremental  return' are coming up.   Continued  extension
services may need further bank support (para 8.2 above).
8.6.1      If the initial one year is taken as an organisational
buil-d  up  period  for  DOI,  DOA  & UPSEB.  the  number  of.
tub.weIls in  overation at the end of fifth year i.e. 1988-
89 was 2025 as against a total target of 2200 new ISTs.
This   indicates   that   the  short   fall   in  terms   of
disbursements was mainly on account of exchange rate.
8.6.2      The technical feasibility and selection of tubewell
clusters  were  never  set  aside  to compromise  political
pressure. No case has been mentioned by the mission. The
performance of a few clusters might not have come upto
expectations on account of their'soil,  region,  cropping
intensity & pattern and other local social reasons only.
8.7        Area day committee, which should not be misunderstood
as an outlet committee, were constituted to distribute the
water among the farmers who were suooosed to share water on
a fixed day according to their need which again may not
have any connection with consensus among the farmers. In
order to assess the success of water management by these
committees, it must be viewed with a different perspective.
Each area day comm-ittee was'independent of the other area
day committee.  It  is  important  to' note- that area  day
committee generally had only 5 to 15  farmers' families''in
it , which  is a very small number and their-individual
problems   related  -to -water  distrib'ution  could'  very
effectively'be managed by a three member committee which
had a fairly  representative  character.  The quest'i'on of
powerful  farmers dominating the area day does not arise.
The  strength  of  ADW  staff  will  not  look  that  much
inadequate if viewed with respect to the tubewells having
come  in operation  at  the  time  of  review  as  the  ADW
activities in fact. commence after the tubewells become
operational.  It is again   recommended that ADW activity



32
should be revived Ln order to fully benefit the project
till the and of the envisaged maturity period.
- s8-. -   -The- suggestions, put forth by the  mission  regarding
increasing the density of outlets, though appreciable, can
be adopted  only atter the development of a more efticient.
Iess fragile and more tamper-proof valve outlet suitable
for th- present field conditions. The-farmer's difficulty
in handling the present outlet discharge of 20 1/s which
is   the most  economically manageable water  stream  for
irrigatLon purposes, is only a temporary problem which will
be automatically overcome in due course with the farmers
getting acquainted with the farm economics and soil texture
changing  from  lighter  to medium after  regular  use  of
irrigation.
8. 9      As explained in para 5.5.  pipe line leakages are part
of teething troubles and have nothing to do with the design
of the system. The suggestions, however, have been noted.
9.        Borrowers Performance
9.1       Needs no comments.
9.2       Needs no comments.
9.3      The energy charges are levied on ISTs on a two part
tariff basis i.e. f.ixed charges along with cost of metered
unit of power  supplied on dedicated feeder.
9. 4     No technique is immune from pilferage, however, the
alleged   manipulations and. mismanagem-nt. of recordst.Is
possible only where hourmeters; are. defec.tive-.. For .such
tubewells there is, a backup system of.checking irrigation-
through local enquiry.,by 0-k M sta-ff. Stray Cases- may be-;
missed but whenever ,tubewol.l operators _h&ve:,,enn jound to
have  indulged  in  wrong  practices,  punitive  action,
including dismissal from services has been. taken against
the delinquent staff.
9.5       As explained in para 3.2, 4.1.4 and 4.3 at length. top
level  coordination  activities  related  to  planning  and
implementation  of agricultural development work in DOI &
DOA did not percolate to grassroots level with desired



33
extent. Nevertheless. the ficures of performance parameters
as- assessed by DOA indicate that there has considerable
achievement. There may be.positive  contributions from the
spade  work  already  done  by  the  existing  -agriculture
extension services net work of the state.
9.6       While it is true that initially the computer facility
with the DOI was not adequate to handle daily data flow.
adequate monitoring of both construction as well as 0 & M
activities    was  being  processed,  albeit  manually,  at
several   divisLons/subdivisions   simultaneously.   Even
evaluation at the, highest levels, using abstracted data
from all the manual processing (4as quite adequate. The
effect of this control can be seen in the faster pace of
working in the later part of the project. What has not been
possible was the retrieval of this data at a later stage.
Computer centres have now been installed both in DOI as
well as DOA to tackle this  problem. The DOA has used this
facility for making its evaluation of the project for the
year 1989-90 in its study of 103 clusters.
9.7       The proposal of UPDESCO was accepted by GOUP and one
AT-386  with  two  terminals  and  three PC-XTs  have  been
installed. The PC- XTs double as data entry machines too.
The software for management information system has also
been successfully developed and is in use since Kharif '91.
This software called Tubewell Monitoring System.(TMS) is
now being put to use for all the state tubewells. Data
collection is proposed to b- done through satellite network
as during. the implementation of TMS.on ISTs it&was.rea}ised
that-the time taken for primary data. to.reachr thef computers
was much more than the time taken by abstracted information
reaching top management using manual processing. This was
so because the primary data under manual processing was
being processed simultaneously at all the 0 & M units. In
tact once this concept is understood It would' be easy to
realise that the "wealth of data" has not been lost. These
data are now being gradually fed into computer for use in
* future.



34
9.8        While there is no  denying the fact  that the onlY Qav
to secure overall  project success  is close coordination
over all aspects  of  implementation between  the agencies
concerned but  it should be at all  levels - the  policy
framing   at   top,   the   planning   at  middle   and   the
implementation at grassroots. As experienced from UPI, the
best results were achieved with the DOA experts  assisting
the DOI officers at various levels.
-   9.9    The mission while trying to find out the likely causes
for the low irrigation intensity, had failed to appreciate
that    the  very  fact  of  public  tubewell  water  being
comparatively inexpensive could have tempted the farmer to
use more water causing higher depth and low intensity, a
phenomenon which is bound to occur in initial stages. So it
is premature to arrive at this sort of conclusion till the
end of build up period. Due care has been taken to rectify
field channel system before handing the tubewell  over to
the 0 & M division by construction division.  It may be
pointed out that irrigation intensity can not be labelled
as low ( para 6.2 and 6.3 above ).
9.10       The assessment of the mission as to the investment  in
public   tubewell   development   not   necessarily   being
economically viable is not well founded due to the
following reasons:-
9.10.1    The data collected by mission were not sufficiently
large enough to arrive at any firm opinion. This has been
accepted by the mission itself ( para 6.3 of PCR ).
9.10.2    The tubewells constructed have been studied prior to
the completion of its stipulated build up period of six to
eight years after commissioning ( which too perhaps is
inadequate in view of present farming condition as stated.
in para 6.5 above).



35
9.10.3    As stated in para 2.2.3 of these comments, which
mentions  the  comment  of  SAR.  the  private  tubeweil
development is a costly proposition from the view point of
power economics in comparison to public tubewells.
9.10.4    As stated by the mission ( para 4.1 of PCR and  SAR).
the sole purpose of the. public tubewell  project was  to
provide  irrigation  facility  by making  use of available
ground  water  resources  of  the  state,  to  the  large
population of small and marginal farmers which was
economically  too  weak  to afford  its  private  means  of
irrigation.
Further, contrary to the finding of the mission based
on an assessment of only a limited numbers of tubewells.
the ERR of the project comes to 48.68% as assessed from the
performance of 2904 tubewells for the year 1990-91 ( Part
IlIl of these comments )
The possibility of handing over the ISTs to village
panchayat shall  hoId  good in case the villagers become
literate and  are able to manage the tubewell system and
distribution of water among farmers. But under the present
condition of illiteracy, this can not hold good. An
attempt, however, is under way to try this on some selected
tubewells.
9.10.5    The  World  Bank in  his report ( SAR para 8.10  ) has
specifically reported the project as viable even if the
tubewell runs for 1073 Hrs in Rabi and 537 Hours in Kharit
that is 1610 hours in total. The average hours, however,
under study during 1990- 91 have come out as 1127 hours in
Rabi as 720 hours in Kharlf which are more than the
critical hours for project viability.
10        ProJect RelationshiP    Needs no commentt.
11        Consultincy Services   Needs no comments.
12        Prolect Documentation and Data  Needs no comments.



36
PROJECT            C O M1 P E T r  I O."    R EPOR F TR 
Part- I II
Economic Analysis
To analyze the economics of public tubewells constructed under
J.P. II project. followine data are needed-
1. Performance of ISTs in terms of hours run durIng 1990-9L.
2. Inc:emental aaricultural 6roduction.
3. Working expenses.
Performance of ISTs:-
As per SAR annexure 2 page 5 which is mentioned below the
buildup period for crop yield economics sholuld have been six year from
the year of operation. In view of this, study of economics of public
tub-wells by mission at this stage is too early to obtain a clear cut
picture. The project results when analyzed over a wider database of 2904
tubewells spread over the entire project area for the year 1990-91, i.e
after providing another coucle of years for the necessary build up of
the systems, depict entirely different and quite encouraging results.
These results are nearer the truth.
(a) Yields.Inputs and Economic prices
A six year build up period for present to future improved
cropping practices has been assumed. For simplicity, the same period has
been taken for the build-up of crop yields and inputs, as well as for
the effect of changing economic prices on net returns per ha of each
crop. The assumed pattern for each year after the start of irrigation is
presented below.
(b)  Crooping Intensities
Experience from other irrigation projects suggests that
increases in cropping intensity to the full development level fiould be
faster than increases in yields. A period of four years was assumed for
the transition from present to projected intensities. The rate is shown
below:
-, .
Yield3.inp,jts.sconomi s20         50     70     as      95       100
Croopins intensities      130     65      es      100    loo      100
.                   ,       ~  ~ ~  ~ ~    ~   ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. I__________  ,__________   ,_________________________



37
The transition of agriculture pra-ctices in old standard
tubewell commands that would be modernized under the project was assumed
to take half the time expected for the new improved tubewells since the
farmers are more likely to practice irrigated agriculture in the "pro-
project" situation." (SAR-Annex2-page5)
Again it is worthwhile to quote that th- SAR ( annexure-2 page
10) mentions. "The likely increase, in crop yields would be about 10%
assuming present cultural practices for irrigated agriculture do not
change. The ERR for this modification to standard improved tub-well
design would be about 32%. However,  it is recommended that such a
provision be considered only when the demand for water by the majority
of farmers in a command reaches the increased level. This is unlikely to
happen for at least a decade when it will be anyway necessary to replace
the tubewell pump units."
The world bank had been correct in its analysis that the ERR
of this modified system which was calculated as 23% would be achieved
in a period of atleast ten years.
The tubewells which were declared operational in various
years during the project are as follows:-
Progress   Number of Tubewells declared operational        Year of
upto     150m^3/hour    300m-3/hour   Total               actual
operation
3/85     143            _              143            85-56
3/86     412            16             428            86-87
3/87     1299           37             1336           87-88
3/88     2025           62             2087           88-89
3/89     2403           66             2469           88-89
3/90     2918           70             2988           90-9t
3/91     2918           70             2988          91-92
I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _



*                  .                      38
Each *tubowal Ieven whsn declared uuarational.  undergoes a
period of three to six months. which may be termed as teething period.
before it  becomes fully stabilized and capable of irrigation Ln full
swing. Only 143 tubewel Is have completed six years. from the date of
operation at the time of analysis made by the department. None of the
tubewell had reached to its maturity as per schedule of SAR at the time
of study conducted li  World Bank mission. The conclusion made by the
mission should be taken keeping this in view.
Irrigation performance of 1984 ISTs during KhariL 1990-91 and
2563 ISTs during Rabi i990-91 were analyzed out of which 503  and 129
ISTs were laft out as being under the teething period (running hours
below 200 hrs). Thus the tubewelis under study were 1477 in kharif and
1466 in Rabi. All  the tubewells were assumed as that of 150m^3/hour
capacity for simplicity.
The tubewells were grouped in various slabs having a
difference of 200 hours that is 200-400, 400-600 .         upto 3000-3200,
(refer ANNEX 1 & 2). These figure have again been tabulated in ANNEX .3
showing the % of tubewelis in various slabs.
The proposed hours for the public tubewells are as follows-
RABI   -    1938
KHARIF -    1285
As per SAR critical hours for viability of the project are-
% OF PROPOSED HOURS AS ABOVE
RABI   -      1073                                  55%
KHARIF -       537                                  55%
TOTAL -       1610                                  55 %
The average hours run of the tubewells under study for 1990-91 are-
% OF PROPOSED HOURS AS ABOVE
RAB I       1127                                     58%
KHARIF =    720                                      56%
This is very much with in the viability limits of the project.



39
TIho rt.itiiI   of the project c n be  3s e sed an the basis of
,._em.ent    9Jar iCI lt ur aI r,roducticn in th- com!n and of Public t bewei!s
Two studies were conducted by the DOA for evaluation of the performance
of this project. The first was in 1988-89 as base  line survey on 33
tubewells   randomlv distributed  over  various  districts.  It covered
almost all the parameters for evaluation and data pertaining to cropping
intensity. use of fertilizer and chemical inputs and economic return
from this study has 'been used in the present analysis. The second was
evaluation the results of agricultural extension works for the year
1989-90  in the command of 316 tubewells of the present project selected
by stratified two stage random sampling design. from 103 clusters.
Rise in croppine intensity
As depicted in annexure 20 based on the first study, the
cropping intensity has risen over all from 130.37% to 173.97%. The
details shown in annexure 19 are based on the second study. The net
cropping intensity is tabulated below:-
SL.NO  |REGION          CROPPING INTENSITY
Target as per SAR    'Achievement in 89-90
1.      Western         149                    |161.3
2       Central         147                     143.3
.3      Eastern         131                     150.5
It is very much evident that except for central region where
the net cropping intensity has not reached the target of SAR. in other
two regions  the achievement* is more  than satisfactory.  In central
region,  the Irrigated crops   such as wheat, ollseeds. pulses, potato
were sown beyond target figure but sugarcane and paddy sowing did not
match expectations. It can be seen that the cropped area under rain fed
or unirrigated category have been reduced. This shows a remarkably
successful aspect of the project.



40
I rrl  lofl I6tens -v
According to the survey -conducred by DOA for 103 Public
tubewell  clusters  for the year  1989-90 the irrigation  intensity  in
commanded area of Public tubewell clusters has been fairly close to the
SAR target of 97% as shown in the table below:-
SL.NO    REGION            IRRIGATION INTENSITY DURING 1989-90
1        Western           ad%
-       2         Central          87%
*  3     Eastern           97%
Average for      88x
Icommanded area
Economic Evaluation
Formulation-     There are two parameters available  to evaluate  the
projects.
(i) The hours run o.f IST during  1990-91, the  latest, for Rabi and
Kharif (ii) The cropped area and the farm earning per hectare for pre-
project and for the year 1988-89 during Rabi. Kharif and Zaid crop as
per study conducted by ADW of DOA.
As the cropped area and farm earning would certainly have increased
during 1990-91 as compared to the data available during 198S-89, the
evaluation  of  the project for  1990-91  is being done based on  the
available data of 88-89. It is certain that the project will not be over
assessed.
The tubewells have'been categorised into slabs of 200 hours of
running  to provide  a range  of  models  for better  and  a realistic
evaluation (annex 1, 2 and 3). The irrigation performance of 22 out of
33 base line study tubewells have been used, as the performance of
remaining 11 tubewells was not readly available (annexure 4). These
tubewells have been placed in the slabs devised, in accordance with
their performance during 1990-91 under Rabi and Kharif separately. It is
presumed  that  the agricultural  performance  of the base  line study
tubewell shall represent the performance of all those tubewells coming
under that model. The agricultural performance of various models in
respect  to  (i) Cropping  intensity and crop production.  (ii)Use of



41
fertilisers. Improved variety of seeds and insecticides and pesticides
(iii) Farm economics of the tubewell and (v) Cost benefit of the project
have been tabuLated in ANNEX. 5 to ANNEX. 12 for Kharif and Rabi crops
separately.
The increase in profit with respect to pre-project values come
out to Rs 3490.51 lacs for 1477 tubewells in Kharif and Rs 5542.74 lacs
for 2466 tubewells in Rabi, which is the indirect benefit only and not
just the ultimate out come of the project. This benefit has been a
remarkable  achievement  but  is  not  unexpected  due  to  the  quite
satisfactory levels of the following factors of the project
(a)    rise in cropping intensity,
(b)    rise in crop productivity,
(c)    rise in use of improved variety of seed.
(d)    safety of crop from insects, pests by use of chemicals
(e)    rise in use of fertilizers.
Financial review
i         The  establishment  cost  for  the 0 & M division  has  been
calculated on 1990-91 rate and comes out to Rs 11814 per tubewell. One
"O & M" division covers about 350 Public tubewells.
2.   The  project  expenditures  upto  1990-91  has  been  tabulated  in
ANNEX.14. The work expenditure could not be separated between various
categories   of   tubewells,   that   is  150m^3/hour   to  300m-3/hour,
modernization of OST and connection of OST to dedicated feeder. The
tubewells which were constructed under the project have been converted
to weighted number of 150m^3/hour IST in accordance to their estimated
cost provided in the project (see ANNEX.16). The work expenditure has
been calculated on unit tubewell.
Direct Revenue
The average discharge of a tubewell is taken as 33000 GPH
irrespective to their capacity. The. average hours runs for Rabi and
Kharif 1990-91 were 1127 and 720 per tubewell as mentioned before. The
revenue per tubewell has been calculated as Rs 11777 (as per ANNEX.15).
The working expenses (Refer ANNEX.17) comes out to. Rs 69409
per tubewell. The financial analysis of tubewell under the project has
been made without taking the interest on capital involved and with
overall depreciation, rather than taking it on individual components
ANNEX 18.)



42
The benefit to cost ratio has been arrived at as 2.61 instead
of 2.7 as worked out in the project.
The economic ratio of return excluding interest and life of
tubewell  system but  including a depreciation reserve  fund provision
comes out to 48.7%-.in place of 51.3% as assessed in the project.
This then is the outcome of the project even when the study
has been conducted quite before the maturity period of all the tubewells
involved. There cannot be two opinions that this project has proved a
boon to the U.P. state.



43
ANNEXURE-1
SECOND U.F. FUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
NUMBER OF TUBEWELLS IN VARIOUS SLABS OF RUNNING HOURS
iKHARiIF 1990.-91
'SL.       SLAB       :NO OF TUBEWELLS :
:NO
:  1      2200-400    i            422
2      400-6(00                 386
: z :   6(0-8(:()               247
1 4 :  EBO- 1 00      a            167
5     10(0- 1200                 97
6     1200-14C00                 57
7      14(0-168                  20
8     1680-18 00                22
: 9      18 00-2000:   i            27  1
1:  2000-220o                 18
i  2.200-2240C                 7
12    2 :2400-2600   :s  -
13 :  2600-28ec)   : 
14 2: 00-3:000.)                   C1
SOURCE :MASTER DATA BASE PHASE-II
Anne:. - C/FCR - FEB '92                                             'AGE 36



44
ANNEXURE-2
SECOND U.F. FUBLIC TUBEWELLS FROJECl
NUMBER OF TUBEWELLS  IN VARIOUS SLABS OF RUNNING HOURS
--4 A,   -1   -4   -4  -4,~~~~~~      ,~~ ~A A , %'%  A. % A , A, A,.~%    %~  ". '~    N 'N. _A    A,    'N.  A,   'N 'N _    N. A.'N 'N A, ,
RABI 199C)-91
:SL.         SLAB         :NO OF TUBEWELLS'
:NO
1        ()C)-40(< 1)!
2       4(0C()-6CC) 37.25
3z ,    6oi)j_euj                     3  '95
4      B  (:i(-1 C?()o; C              Z 5
5      1 o(x-1 vt 12()0
6      12700- I 40C                   2 6 -, 
7      1400)1-160)                    199
a      1600-1t C:! o                  144
9 ,    80(0-2 t (:                     95
*1 C3    2c) ()J(i( -22c_( )(             78
11     '22'(0 -.24 0                    4 7
1 12    '2 '4 0 -'26(C0                 29
13      2 60-20 e o                     2C-0
4 14 4 1       -300                         2
t 15  ,                                     1
* 12 '         . 3 - -4 0  
SOURCE    MA1ASTER DATA BASE F'HASE -II
Annex. - C/PCR - FEB  '92                                                          Paoe .z7



ANNEXURE-3
SECOND U. P. FUBLIC TUBEWELLL  PROJECT
PERFORMANCE OF TUBEWELLS IN TERMS OF RUNNING HOURS
______ _____ ______ _____ ______ _____--- ____ - - -- --------____--- - - -_----_ _ _  _ __ _  _ _ __ _  _ _ __  _ _ _ _
IRANGE OF :         KHARIF-90           :        KHARIF-91                     RABI-90                       RABI-91
:HOURS                                                                                            :
:  SLAB   :NO TO TWS    :- OF TOTAL  NO TO TWS    7- OF TOTAL  NO TO TWS                OF TOTAL :NG TO TWS          OF TOTAL
IN THE RANGE :IN THE RANGE                              :IN THE RANGE :IN THE RANGE :                              :
,200-400              _ 220      28.42             422 1      2e.57             28          11.46            201          B.15
:400-600              219        15.45 :           388        26.27             29Z         16.14             329 :      1S.34
:600-800              1B6 6      16.52             247        16.72             406        22.37              4C60       16.22
:80C-IOOb             117 i      10.3S9            i67        11.51 i           252        1-5.8E 1          339 :       1_.75
: 1000-1200:            6 1:     7,.4 :             97 :       6.57             18 a          10. 3-         326         1 .22 :
* 1200-1400:           6o         5.t ;             57         2.E6             141i         7.77            294         11.52 :
.1400-16C10I  .        45         4.00              20         1.-              115         6.-4 :           200 1        8 S.11
:160o-i80:              c         2.2: 2--                     i.49              77         4.24              114 :       4.62:
.I800-20C1:            2')0        1.G78             7         13                63 1       3.47               96         3.89
i 2000-2200i           2)          1.7E              I e         . 21            26;         1.43 :            78         3.16
:2200-2400:                       o.ec,              7         0. 47             24         1.32               47         1 1.91
:2400-26001             6         0.5 1              5         O.34              15         0z.83              29 :       1.18
:2600-2840:O            4          0.3G6            O         : . :                        0.28e1             20         0.61 :
:2800-,000              2          .18 1                :      0.)0               2         Ci0.1   :           2 :       0. 08
3t0)0-320t 1 .             :      o. o  :            0i       0*.   0             0 1       0. 0 'i             1         6 .04 1
:3200-340.-01           0.) 1     0. :) : 1. 0.                 0 0 :                1        C. 00 1             1:. Oo
:TOTAL     :         1126               :         1477 :                       1815 1             :         2466
SOURCE   MASTER DATA BASE PHASE-I!
Annex. - C/PCR - FEB '92
Page 38



0F5A1L OF IRIE~GATION&2JU2 IUMII &LW 22 = AIMNE flhia)L
* 4         flE~~~1J. tCTAILS         S---: (-----                                      -- Ml2 OSTAIb                            ----.E ETA ~i
:=TSER :DIs1~2Ta    :PNhaE  ntegm-f 1FAff~ :CATS    ti(R    :XTML AREA :Aflft MFA   WAiER228:  2WA1E3226:    AMt8Zl                       TU1122       PUB        JlXM   NA IACIJAL. Wi1 kUTERI?S           WETRIU:       2822) 1       2AMIN226N
*ar-       aF   m: *ma                         !NEW rd: #AM2h- ; MI26ATEt'   2IkUM.TED           ARE           C           NM1W          WAV            A2Li-   I IFi26ATE0  :2IRRGAED                                    2 FrA  Ri'N   WDM
'1.5    BILITYs :8 1m                  1i5XIB8iTEP ia~~                        I                          :IL                        i iSATi       :MISATO I
:53-90         9C-92   1e1-90  i94   :1                 F-9%91- 91                           19-0 1                   :29-90             " :9-9     :2-9    I991
oon5     :541         t9s       IS     :2          Ml:1.9 2I             0      1    14!           2')1                 1    21.5          288           2075    I       9           10:          50        127        2    LI25     2    129
.0077        52    ta 2i          S     1          N  2 6l12 0   1    112            t73           2P3          M:.      1    144,9        1142        12420  1         84      1    72          17In       1  44      I      OO0    I    952
.010?      1:1         It.       SE                         MT 21  2     47          ir       a     5.1           i;          407      1    5%j           ? 364    i     .z     a    89           L.          1225       12015    1    902
02I051       .( 08    116                         222      221       1243,      i    l            198           21c     a     0          1 21.0    U34 9               231      12119    1       411          2 44          1r30    1    905
.8 05  O        2101      MG3    :2:22210                        lie2         2ie           152     i    I. LI         LE02     1     761.        3489    :      32          lei          3221     :252            12692    I    1328
.0101        12    1215   12a f6                             WT21 22   1   22        2B            470     1    41.        12404    1       2551    1351.              121        1617      11.92             59       1    2181    1    1952
.0042      125 1      841    SE                    Hi 22 24421          84         1 29       i12021             23-     i    642    822al           1    22      1      2      1    MT    i    VT              H T    1     22            NY
.0214    I121i12 5.    Hs               12      22 2        21    1   219            1721          348          442      1     17           19      1      5.6 1                :2091            408           2       1     1   1        211
.00219     023          (, 35    No ::2           1     26132 :         0             72"     1    21.     1               12570    1    H222             in            LIT11        22 N   1     221    1     MT            MT22    1 
.0031     18212011i  A6                            m 2     MO228       154      1    223          22-           3914          I 2U5    1    2774    1    22       M2 1          T                 221N         M T     I     MT      2     V
.00M 8    :24:221 21            0               12N215321              135      .     1.          336"A         2      2445                 205 I(_       Vrt           I9         1 I?          204     1      1      I   890       1     52
.0028    . 24       271          ES     1212 N2             MT          lT           iN            to      I    22            Jr,n     1    MT            MT           !:5      1    .5          296I 220                   9521          671.
.0000    1  :12     084       K&S    :2  2           I222251            229           92     .    251           lit        &1.2          fi .1      1   100            I CA.3   1     424          4     :     33      i    540         1 252
.012 1 0:0O4:             6      I 2:2      NJ1I091               15     1     90      1    145     1    155          o101.0         I2'-          Jr,     1     22            n     I      n      I    V I MTVTm                    M T
:011   70:1012 :2t8 1                     2 212-0921               141.         128       A24  1                    1    142-5         20201          22            2      1    22r1M        N V     :     22            M7V     I     MI
01(9      132:136.               S6        2       Ni      2         1 22            2 721         24  20         9!         O199           125     :  2932            105      i    90:         21.0       1120          1251.21          1224
.0202)      90121.7            0        1222 M2             MT          89      1   23             271        1129       1    943.     i    1250    1772                 I            I           I      1      2      1    243         1208
.005     :50           IT5   I50        :2  12     NJ2076.              VTI           NT            WnI          hi            M V           i.i    :24151                      :8                2      1     9       1     24      1     9
.0042    :24           15 9     66      1  2:2     WI12021               45           1.4     1     55     1     9            28         1257             inV           NT22         M T    1     Li      1    VT      :      Ti     I    i
.0637    : 21          (U51    W,    :2:2          N2   2745  1         95                         IL9 1  15  1295            Do80          1230          hiT           41.     :    35           77        5275        1.075        :    284
.017?      2325        I292:8           121    I22       26401          7  17        223      .215         1     7(      1      i            MTi         ! 977          xiV      122              N   I        MT      1       T2    1      i
.0131    1  21. 0421             FV    1  21       Ml21261.4           209         213        1240         1235          I     VT            M T    :3498               NT      1  104:           VTN     1230         I     VT      2     V
kOT E-   i: NOT 13W.ATE
SOUCE.1  oara DAAN wa
k=x.       1   FM! '9Pa    3



I~?OES~RNMVIEDWSATIM: btM  OF               SOIL              DEIN0  UNWDITY                 fl1811IG OITUIECT.
I  I        a                     1l~~~~~~~~~~~:AIEi:I34IM1F:R8I:  M0TAL  MPDY :AT :P MS.S/CMNW6ETLE :FTATO I
11204.400    1 941          :31UV    :           :fl         -0 : .8   75.7:67.5:     147:  21.4:  18.5:  6.5:  230             35:       50:
1   8K0                                        L  ~ 9    :  86.8:80.7:   173.5:  31.6:1.25    8.3:  320:       40:      230:.
2 4200-400         44 :i 3/87   :                 PFI      :3.8      7.3.67.5:        147:  21.4:  18.5:  6.5:  230             25        50I
am~:                             :83-89        6:   eL.8:8. 7:   17.5   3.6:2.7.25:  8.3: .32-0                40:      2301
3140C-Lo0      1  44 :E 3/97                                3 ~ :.e:   7'3.767.5:    147:  21.4:  1,5: .6.5:230                35:      501
*   I2~~~~A  :  :         :88-8~~Ot9    :6:  84.8:88.7:   Ir..5:31.1. 27.25  8.3:3 20:                   40:     2301
410-9000    1    445 FS         0/86   L.r..     :FRE          71   74.5 176.51       18  14.051    16  7.01  5.5I              90:   31. 5
:rM~~~s~Eai3  :  :        10~~E?-P~9   122.31   93.3:  iso    215.41  IE.I125.441   7. 7:5501           1001i    I-IV
1:-lo      27                  1           :FRE     11.         i3360.5:   104.41    211    191   121                    37. 
*  a             a         a    ~     ~~~~~~~~~ 10-59   119.21   59. 4 1.4  1541   1 2      2511I.1-               43.31 
L :1000-1200      1 -s if                         Oz I$.   III.'    iZ4.4 1  .1 1140.8  2N.5 1 2&3   L .3 1 250 a                        140
a  a          a         .          184~~~~~~~~~~~~B-E9   117.4    UA7.  :7!.4:   160.4  5 41    32 17.3 1400 a             50
7112W   1 400  1 1011 PS       3/87   I                              9~1 1 7.41IC.?a  a/    15.4:  3617.31    50 
a  aWYOl0*Ft111         :           113~~~~~~~:2-09    1 1016:71.4 :   177.41    401    361     81450a               a    :5
8:1 400--1600  1 1011 IS       3/87   1           !FiE11 '.   L 49.21                 al.   :34 12.1 L       7.3:  Zaa 
a  .~~~~fII*4'1f1       I ~~~~~~1E 689                 la 1( 71.42    117.41    401    361       I8 4501                  20
-4!
9:1600- 1800  I   1011         3/8V7              1 Ki           1  97.6149.21        EF*   15.4:  12.61  7.31   5a                 
I    18439    1        1014471.41   177.41    40            41    81450. 
I1011800-2000      115$ Ks      12/86             iHi~ I             79.5160.2:  .29.7    21.4 :21.3215.43    360 a             75 
I    Om                       I           E189    11.1 112'. 5 174.4:         20M    73   26. 24 16.7 1370 1           110 
II:200-2200        1153 Ks      12/86  1           FfE      1        79.5:160.21    139.7:  21.4 1?.03  5.61,   3401            751
a      a    a~~~~O    a        a                9    11.11  *n.5 1.4            23:7.52621                    ', 
.12M20-201                                          VIE1286  44        79.5 160.2-1   L39.7 121.4 121.03  5.634361W7I 
*     a    (Di                a            E-89    11.11  129.3 1574.41       205 127.35 134.24:I6.7 1370 1            110 1 
13 :2400-260  :    1154 :6 12/86 1                 iFOi           1  79.5160.2  1  39.7  21.4  1I.0315.63.i            O 36:      5:
I             a n(G                 I          .8-69    11.11  129. 574.4:1    205127.35  26.241   4.7:  3701               :io
14 12802800        1154 K6     12/861              !PSE     1     1  79.5160.21    139.7 121.4 1?.0315.631  3601                751 
I    ID       1         1           18-89     1.Il1  129.5 :74.41       205 127.25 :26.241  6.7 1370 1           110          a
5124280300        115 Is    1 12/86:ff                     1     1  79.5164.21 I `1397   21.4  21.0315.631  3601                751          i
a     -.   (G~~~DM    I                    2-1-9    :1.1:  129. 5:74.41         205 :7. M   12. 241I6.71  3701          1101          a
16 13000-32A       1154 K    1  12/86  I           Fri      1         71.51LO. 2     131.71  21.4  21.03I5. 3:  3601            751 
DIN3                             :H-f1i-6  :1.11  129.5174.41        205127.35  26.2414.7  3701               110: 
17 130-3400-U  I   1154 KS      12/8              :F14E     1         79. IV  60.21   1319.71  21.4 12 . 4315.3    3601         75:
1               E 1.4-9    11.11 i  24.5  74.4 :     N 2052. T3:2t 4    i .71  3701          1101 
MxRE:   O    . 8aaE~LtajP SRlFr El-



SEra( L.F. hm&.!C TifN!)LLS PfWJ-M
AG!CLLTIM. ,LuTIN3 flIE&L ca~wa
;ABL  :HM5  RWEU;Si~IATIGN:             waT3LIM  LEE IOTL/h-7)       I RIEE IN USE OF I~WkED Ea0       32 RISE FFM   2EAS  YIN 1E tr  O
1k   P    :8       :PADD0YIIET   EASOM 11PEA W,Pl SESD~E            I      SOL :
1:200-400    I   948 KS    :P        :5.50:   7.70 1   1.40  20.00 MOM00   4.00 30.00 20-0.001   130.0:              .30 400.00:  700.00:
Kf      E-e        St. 80:  36.701   9.30:
2'.4(-6M     94 8     :9_        3M-50     7.70:   t .40  250.00 :50.00    4.00 30.00I 20 0. 00    100.00 :    -2. 3 0400.00:   700.00:
*    a     ,   J2~~~~151  E9-9       %1.0128.70 1  9.3              i                                         
:31600-B00         ?44 PS    :!   ~ 67.10 :2L6 w:7.00:                          
*    a      a ~~~CNfga 8K :-8           900   U.325 I 12.00 :100.00  160.oo0 :100.00 11ioo.o& :100.00 I 100.00     66.60    too    100.00
:4:M0-10 :    2106   :F               :70. OD i ss.o:21.001 i                                        : 
*    . ~~~~MI liFaU    le~--El    184.00 :40.00  28.0: 17.00:100.00 :  S. 00IO.00:10.DOo               2DO.      so0.oo:   5w    l00.00 i
:51200-1200:         -7 HSt   *K        Le. 60:29013.30:I
*    a         3t~~~~~oiSWt    :E:-Ea   t90.60   3.7slo   130.00  100.00  66.7  3OO.0 h00.0 10D.  :30.00 31 00.00  44.40 .  15u       .0
:1I2OC-1400  I1033HS    :F9E       I 1.001  34.00    9.001          1                                        1. 
*    a ~~~~~GINSORMWFJ  :8989        3.00   45.O0   29.00   50.00 1350.00  50.00           150.00D 1   300.00      93S1.00 100.00   931.00 .
7:140(-1600    IDI MG    :F9i         831.0034.00:   9.001                                                                         
I  8(Wf3    r-89    3HE.0    451.00 i29.00 .150.00 :3w.00   50.00 i            50.00      300.00 i    93.00 :300.00    93-00                                                                    O
B1:36W00O1900       MG    IF3       183.00:34.00:   9.00:                                                                         
a            .6V6m*Aa:8-59           :eOO: i C.00: 20.00: so.00 ;350.00  50.oO: ,             50.00:    100.003 i    5.00:300.00:   9s. o:
:9 390-00:               KS   11M~      5.0o:   1.203                         3                                                     
a    a    ~~~~~~amO     1ES-E9    -1 4.00  212.10 1 604.00) :50.00 :350.00 3      :230.00 :200. 00 :   727.00 1   2700.00 :237.00    211.00
It0:2200-2200:    335 KS   WRE           5.001 32              :       i                      I                              
a    a  a    W~~~~~i    :ss-ey ~~t1. 6300  212.30 1 604.00 :150.00 :350.00   1 230.00 32-0. 00 1 727.00 : 200.00D :237.00    211.00
1 233.1a2400:      115S   OFII          1!.0        3.201        i                                                                    
a    a     a   ~~~~~(EN  i"-8     1 l(40  3 21.10 1M60.00 :350.00 :15.00           2304.00 :200O0  1   77.00     M 0. 00 1217.00    213.00 
SOX    gmso  ON bMilE gAc-Y DM~~~~~~~~~~~a         a       a              a      a                  aa 
knm   -    :~~~~~~~~::7%        :        1       a       a-                    a a      a      a                      a4 



ANNEXURE-7
SECOKrL U.-. PUBLIC TUBEWELLS FRu3ECT
ECONOMICS OF TUBEWELLS
K H A R I F
:MODEL:HOURS RANGE:REPRESENTATION:   YEAR         ECONOMICS OF TWS.         IBENIFITS
:  T.W  &  GROUP    :                          ------------------------:
K:HARIF    RABI   : ZAID   : TOTAL
agg==s=An==s=s    in=SSfbS       W      fl  Sstse=====      ann a=============
1 :200-400    94 KIG         :PRE-PROJECT:    1000o     3500             4500.00
::HAGA         :  88-89   :   1500        5500       500   7500.00
2 :40'0-6O0    194 NG        IPRE-PROJECTI    100')     35OO: 1: 4500.00:
:KHAGA     -       88-89 :1   15001    5so: 1    500 :   7500.C00
3 :tO-8OO   1:244 PG    : PRE-PROJECT: 3214.60 : 4660.00 1 1610.00: 9484.60 1
a     :           :CAMPEREGANJ   :  BB-89   : 5500.00 1 6687.00 : 2616.20 :14803.20 :
1  4 e800-1000   :271 bo         :PRE-PROJECT: 4200. 00   B80.00 1           6 6000.00
: ,               :WAZARGANJ  :      8E-B9   1 5000.00   2600.00 1 2900.00  10500. 00
5: I oo0-I20ot  :125 HG      :PRE-PROJECT: 10:00.    . 3500.00    :    1 4500.00:
h: HASANPUR   :    88-89  : 1500.(00i  5500.00    504.00 ; 750O.OCI 
:   :1200-1400  :101 MG      :PRE-PROJECT: 2000.00   1500.00    200. e:'  370'. OO
:  :GRDHANPUR    ;8a-89   : 3000.00  2500.00 : 700. Oo : 6200. 00
7 :1400-1600  :1i1 MG        :PRE-PROJECT: 2000.00 : 1500.00 (  200.0:0  3700.0C 1:
:                 I SGORDHANPUR      86-89     3000.00 .2500. 00    700.00   6 6200. 00
8 :1600-1800  :101 MS        :PRE-FROJECTI 2000.00   1500.0) : 200.00 1 370'). O0
:GORDHANPUR    1  BB-89   1 3000.00 : 2500.00 1 700.00   6200.00
9 ::800-2000  :11S KG        IPRE-PROJECT: 2500.0t0 :  2000.00 1 240.00 :  4740.00 1
DON            1  88-89  : 4798.00   4000.00 1 743.00 1 9546.4'00:
I 10 :2000-2200  :115 ICG         PRE-PROJECT: 2500. 00 : 2000. C0    240. 00 : 4740. 0
: :         ICDON      :       8E-89  : 4796.00   4000.00 1 742.00 1 95546.00 :
: 11 :220Q-2400  :115 KG         IPRE-PROJECT: 2500.00 :  2000.00  : 240. 001 4740.0 oO
:   :       :lOON          :  89-89   : 4796.00 : 4000.00 1 748.00 1 9546.00ti
12 :2400-2600  :115 KG        IPRE-PROJECT: 2500.00 : 20O.00 1 240:.00 i 4740.00:'o
: :          :OON      :        88-89    4798.00 : 4000.00 : 748.00C 59546.00
a          fl  awn  an  anna S2=======naaaawan ======= =================
SOURCE   BASED ON BASELINE SURVEY WOA
A4nne:. - C POP: - FEE  92
Fa9u 42



Emm  u.P. MIC UOPE.j KMrE*-
SM_ Di WWWATiI3UAI~F   ~A                           _--
*   .  .    :i~Nn SAS      TM       :  DISTRICT                      CSP1EINTE19DSITY                                     MIF~T PL )ETA..                   HVEASE IN PF1T    -
a~~~~~~            TJt                                          PRE: F4iJECT       f- -R-PfW-.T                 f,MrEC                 'IiFThE~-rECT        !PER TS 'TOTA-j 
I 20,-4O0          422 94 KEE        ;_Ah.w'Ii            4    7.i       80      6:   67        93               IO(0       1OOO      soo:    1500 I _ 20:30600:4-4774200
3m F94A3UR4    76                                     so:    6    E7         93:         :    000:       iol       5        5        -low: s0:  c:000 0 100 :.411&EOO:
316--SCM0  27:44P K                   T*XF               7:   75        E2:   22: 93:         1       !610     32:51 5     41=2     2616:    55L'      2116:  5450M24!34621972
:4 :0f-1000         167 218 i.B                           1:    3          44 I  19    591        79:             4200        4200:   2900      5C'Y0 17900:  4 3572 0  7Z!LS,:
5:10C*-12w0       97 :125 S         NWRAMW             12:   6.3        74:   17:   62:        Et:             1(0         1000 I   5YXi    15(        00    95700:  EV"90
630-9(~!400         57 h101 ?E       :P!DW.F                    98       92           16:    106        2trfl   2O.0        2200      7(-    ~     ~   37C'O    177480  10m1,3.60:
7 :1400-1600:       2t 10! ?Ir             WI~A                 9e        e  9                 IQ1     1Q61    20<  200     20        700:    300:   3700  17740:V  35496-0
~~:~wo-~eoo:  22:Io! WE        :.D.                        5.       e        : 106:    io0        2'k      2001       220<:    7C(:    3000    37.(01774R0    39N4W
5 : Iac;- 2000 1        !!:!5K,      :tlBw4.5;j ~                                     131):    131:   ---; 2W 00            27401'    74E      479'E    5546    50647E  1110*5:
Io :20-20             E 1  i1!! KS    :jaAF4i:8  1                        8       I  1 101,   I31,I      240      2500       2740 1 745         4 79?    1- 50679 5          Ii 
'I '"~~-~4O0 :  7 :::s Kt-      '??FY*    :                S  :       o      I   1301    131:    ?:   2500:   .240:    748                47       5546 :50647E:  3545 3n
112 1240C-2600          U5   KS        1SI0 R          :               0      Io 110:            13f      20       2200       2740      74E      47~i     5~546506478:  222W1
3490575
k=.%.  CM Fg ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. y 



W13  IIDH' VnE  l9uEb1300 OiFZ.FX,      EI
MRIG  lri-MiTY A* 4MEilg..k r.                                              ,*U$& (   T- EMEL-
:qA  WIM  Na3E? MA1TION: 0* OF    SDIL                             DgFihI IMIiI TIY                  ?FtwiEU9  oLfrjt.,         -::       -i
J    :2O040-   :194 ISI      I        zL*T.%I:   6.1  4.5:...    *1A..  14.15   20.4 :.4.26:j                                                 - .                                  .     .o . -     .  t .-A.            . 
I::M0301              :9-0     :011         50       14.1:  8148.:   8.4                   7:3. 2:5.13:..3.                                                        <-       j;. ::: 
I   :000-600   :1911 s               :13911      :pw         33      .:95         1663.5           0.4:4.26 g
I: .           IOMUAMW   :8700    iEIO         :50      :14.1:  81.4: &.4:  fe!.94:    17 :   23.25.31:
3*400-~~~~  *945 ~  :3W3                 ME :1     :1.:   75.7:47.5:        147 :31.4:  35.5:  6.5:  230.           35        50 
I90             I          :5-9           6:   6.8:50.7:   1r.5:  35.L27.25:  a.3:  320                40      no0
*  4:M0-3000   a196061811. WES    :sMII           :P00     :5.? 2      .4:37:7  160.3:  1:7:  3 7.?:  4.3:  300              70:
t   :mi         88-9:             90.5104?2'      9.       42;    40    16   5:          20        : i
5:1000-1200  I3090 IS        -0     :08V1:9i            :3           3    4:      15         8    20:   9:  270:     
* :     :MNMW*R   :             5031061:6-9           5.:   100:   I:   358.8:   2:   ZS:   10:  425:                       
A 4:1200-1400  :56  JAM      :4m0      ~ISP1     :F5       :5.5:  421.5:54.5:   302.5:  -   :    5:                                   
7 7:40-IW O  :300 :19IS       J       :smY        :EK      :0.8:  92c. 3:0.6:   37.7:1U.25:   2A:  6.5:. 300                 40:    )33,:
*    :  :fl~~~~~~~~3  : ~~~   :M3AT       58*W9    :0.5:    300z938E   194.k:20.75:    24:7.75:  440:    77.5:               2(0
*      :3600-3000  :33& ES   :21E5                FIE91  5  :7.9:  22.4: 776     17.9   1 2.52 : 63c:-    
*    :  :~~~~~~IDi  : ~~~~    :ED3Wr.    :5E-0    :15.!       56 :102.8 :  166.32    1 4.3 : 37.5:    :-
*  9:3000-2000 :3369         :2185    tL3941       P:,.    :7.:  227.4:771.:   107.9 1I2.52: 1.36:                                
*     s"E                                                   Y)0313 :50  55   5:102.6:   166.31:  4.: 3- 7. 5:-  -a -  :
*18:2000-2200  Ml S          :1116   16 :LG    :1,  :PE        4:    44:  70:.    Ile:    8:    16:   10:                    OD 8:
:t*anaagm    :         1SIt1i    :5-89    :3.5:  4 4.5:  101:    37:   3.:25.44:   16-   a                    40 
33:~~ ~    ~~:3300-40:1"9  :11/86   t1363316   :16       :4         44:  7K .       18:    8:    36 3 :-:                 K:-
*    :       :~~~~~dawuq.    I      MONK41     :5-       :13.5:  64.5:  303:    179:    3c.:344.  18:    :                 4: W
.12:20-20:23 WE                      :3.3931     :'r09             49.7:85.9    135.6:17.5:    20:  -5.5   350           -           
*    :.  :Vi~~~~a-1I    :  :19191    :00~~~~~-0    :6.6    5 1.1:ICI.2:   354.3:    25:    54.  6.5:54.:      -       
;. 3:200-2000:2s90           :         :3.3941    :Kp       :        40.:8.:    3.6    7.:    05.5 .-                :          3
I    :  :iAa 11                :iEa333      509      :6      51.3:103.2:  15?.31 :  5:   56:1 &S5:  5(0:   -                 -    4
1* 34~-.2 300   :2390        a         :13941,  :    :KCa  49.7:85.4    335.6:  17.5:   20:s5.5: 350:   -    a -                         3
3    a   :860sma-13    :     ~~~~~~:391131    :6-9  65    51.3:301.2:   150.: I      35:   50:6. 5 t 560                        ..                                         . :              .    - ..  
314:300340:39                 :         1911F5:                       478.:           5.&:  17.5:   30:5.5: M0:                 : -
-IL Cua-33 :v                 :3939l1, :-9 :F .:   5.7:11.2:   359.3   175:   25: 5.5: 350: -                           : -
ISiS: 54S~~~~~~~~~~ 84         Ulh          " ..3E  95$'..                 1.        L Y 85I5W0
WMW..  t11 sk-X 1812k
km&. _ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ _ _                                                                                            .                                             j       - ..     ., .



5-           M
I SA
LR ER
41
- - - - - - - - -- - -
Z4
Zs



53
AMtEXURE-11
SECOND U.P. PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
__  --__-_- -----------_ 
ECONOMICS OF TUBEWELLS
RAB I
1MODELaHOURS RAGE REPRESENTATION       YEAR         ECONOMICS OF TWS.         1BENIFITS
11    i           1 T.W & GROUP           :         -_____
i  i                                      1 KHARIF  I RABI       ZAID      TOTAL
-__   -         - =-_=-----===-a==-===_ -=--=-_====__=------=
1   1 :200-400    :194 MG          :PRE-PROJECT      1200      2300        600      4100
I  I   W1DABAD       88-89        1800       3700       BOt      6-300 
2 2 :400-600       194 MG          !PRE-FROJECT      1200      23'O      600       4100
*     I            MOHANAMDABAD        88-89         1800      3700       800       6300
3 1600-800   1)94 KG KHAGA      IPRE-PROJECT1    1000      3500       -         4500
I           1          I         B 8E-E'9     1500 :   5500         500      7500
4  800-1000   :16 86 BABAIL   PRE-FROJECT        2400      34 0        9}0      6700
88-89        5500      6400)               1100
5 s  100(-1200  :1 108e MG     ;PRE-FROjECT;   2100       3,200        450      5750
*  I  ORCANFUR       82-89        6200       6 .7)      6503    1355')
6 1 200-1400  12 E6 JASRA      iPRE-FROJECTI 1zr2 0        3200      -    :   4400
88-8c9       180'")    5 20)       600      760i)
7  140b-b16N)  :19 fi RlUJDRAFUFR  PFRE-FpROJECTI    B14  225'J    --          4064
.  -ES'      35370     3680       2026      9236 :
8  1 600- 1 800   134 SG SALONE   PfRE-PROJECT!    450      500        20       1150
EE-EY 8^ Iot              f)t01    It,>     2 I (
9  18 02rj00d  :136 EG SALONE    FRE-FROJECT     450       500        200      1 15
88-e^         B OO      1');*'     300)     210h)
10  2f200-2200 :)357 VG          FRE-FROJECT^      8 e      2400 3BO  00         3500
:Chiraioaon          EE-89   .    1600       42 ')      5 ()     630')
11  2n2)-2400  :3'57 vs          FFRE-RFOJECTI,   80e       240    '300         35;00
:Chiraioaon          86-P?        1600 1   4200         500      6300 1
1  :240(-260O  :12  VG             F'RE-PRI^JECT:    1(000    3500      -          450'3
86-e?        1600      5600:    500         77t)0)
13 132600-2900   23 VB           FfRE-FROJECTI 13001   35'00          -          4500
:                1  88-89         160')      560f0      50) :   7700
:  14  780G-300     3 12 VJ         TRE-FROJECT      1000      3500      -          4500:
I,                   88-89   1   1600 )      56))       5tjo.    7700                                                r
15 :300-3200  :23 VG            lF RE-FRODJECT:   I1001   3500        -          4500
I                    E688-89      1600:    5600i        5001     77001
16  37200-3400  :23 BVG          FRE-F,ROJECTE0T!    100,     3500 :   -         450 0
:           *                :  88-89          1600      5600-      500       7700)
knex. -C/PCR - FEB '92                                                                                                  Paoe 46



EC!TS FOR THE PROJEUT-ASI ".1
KMl&   CtJ 901fE- ATI'VE TSa-  -OIfw  OF BE
:S  :ELQ A?     M. C     :                                                         F-ESEHTA71WE DATA
:   :~~~~il :i  E-S- ;    TI W2      : "STRFI'T    '         C.lf6t Ile-EITY                     -ii  .'       TAFE         jPCEA   ih PF*iT'
SR:L    i                                             ---- 
:   .   :        :   FiE-F1L-C':    E>-S.:    EAnwG'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T   .    FTUR-KWEi CT: M  TNS ,OTA           :
I    I   :   i          .               '    ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~RAE' I  RC.2i  :       R*;               P FAB      :         ::
e-) 2 I          73  2.                   ,0                                :                _        30     :         Zo:v700    I.A _ Y 5i _!258407
I t l  - L *        7, ~ ,9                                        7 FA  :            tS :R_w OE:                        W . CO .2I 760O : 83040 000
;    c~ ItrSX W,    f 'r9  19; E3       ; E" PR      ;             6i                 c:4 i            2800              b6  .097600:142:&3
; I'OQ  X 0  '    32! i 105 .r;      :"Dv"z                        41                 w;10  i,                           CO   2' -w%;."?!400
*   ZI.*12M-l!'X        e: H 3 es    :A!Gk                         .3 SS              75 .M ,2O                          S20. S5600: 6&23C00:
.  1 4 ,OC-!>; 2iY.   i RIE         qG-;e                                             4:                                 680e  15:!4E34   3 i)-Y6O 0
. ' I:&fXr >  .    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1(4 .L Ea5  ;.^:3,iE- ;L        '?  I              u                 23S              2:-0 ' :0;   90211 2;0:
. i ll>.X-:>:e:>^, .  76 -   ;        .            ~~~ ~         ~~~~7S  0l3:           12-'S             1-7u:  !58C,&  . '16e
;S1222 ,           7   7'.  10I                      :              0                 0                2400             420   Y256 : 11FMO>G
; l1220'            47 ..                                     .     70:e;                               2400              420 z   --200: 1 12041;00:
: 2 12:0C-2X:c       >; .2' V6        E:i A                            :               II S6r  .c                         :.SzO   :;i700:  M60ii0 '
:  :-?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                           106;.!    O X ,     N   .       ;F001  2U070:  M1400
:14 1:00-m30,20:                                                     a6:ul                               3:50              ttw    -e G0   -'214G:
: :t I_:-X:   : '     .               :             ow~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  101:              woOO:             '00   26C/07       266070:
: ;. 1w72-.J.>v;  e:   :         :              aw               ~~~~~        ~~~~~~          ~     ~~~~~~101   w-010  !;X    266070  0:i
5M27;1240



Amexur ND.13
SEM.1G U.P PLM C TIILS- PFSaECT.                                                              -
ST'FF FOR MATION AND MAINTDWtCE DIVISIOi
S.           MN   of malt           Staff     Staff for store Staff for.Total                    Pay                     Encash-   Bous    Total                   7.A   -
No                                  For Dn.   Workshoo sb-Dn field Sub Recuire-                                    -      ent                Avual
Dn13Nos-) lent  ^   Averaoe  D.A    HR        Total                          Aunt          Rate    bmual Acount
1                 2                    3             4            5          6         7        S        9      10         11         12         13         14           15
Bazetted Stf
1.  Executive Enoineer                     I                                     1      3750    17E5      600      l135      2768                  76EB8      900            9600
ASSislagD' Enoini2r                                     I         J          4     Z100    I591      t00      528'       2'51                 262846      500           24000
3.  D>Reyueue Officer                      I                                     1      2600    1726      400     4326       3926                  558239     500            GO0O
-LOT.  3=5074                                  39000
Non Sa:etted Staff
1.  Divisioan  Accountant                  I                                     I     2000    1020       400     3420       3020                  44060      300            3.00
2.  Varishtha sawhal:                      I                         *           1      1620     E26      250     2696       2446      1394        36192
.  Draftsnan                              I                                     1      1620     326      2530    2696       2446      1394 *      36192
4.  Stenooraoh-r                           I                                     1      1620     82G      250     2696       2446      2394        36192      200            2400
3.  Var4sWthn  Linik                       4                1                    B       bI20    826      `50     2696       2&46      1394       2E35
t.  Knishti.a !:oit                        6                |                   t 10    1225     t24      254      2C99      1849      1394       2F4310
. j unior Enoineer                                          4         12        16      1250     943      250     3(43       273                  628944      400           76OO
E.  flistri(lield)                                          e        24         32      1225     624      25       Y 2X9     1845      '794       909792      200           7W6O n
9.  Fon                                                     1         3          6       945     431      150     1426       1276      1111       116994      150           loeoo                                                L
10. Office FeDn                            I                                             845     431      '50     1426       1276      1111        19499
11. _tore kereer                                            I                    I      1225     624     250      2099      1I49       1394        28431
12. Mlate                                                   4        12         16       900     459      150     1509       1359      1184       "30400      150           290C
13. Funner                                 1                2         7         10       945     431      150     1426       1276     1111        194990      100           1200
14. CboMidar                               1                4                    5       945     431    .150      1426       1276      1111        57495
:5. Dr.ver                                                  1         5          6      1225     624     250      2099       1849     1394        170586    IO             10300
It. katera n l-Cua-ai                      I                                     I       845     431      IS0     1426       1276     1111         19492
1?. Store Atterdent                                         I                    1      845      41       150     142b       1276     1111         19492
1E. Electrician                                             2                    2      1225     624     250      2099       1949      1394        56862
19. Part time Tubeell ODerator                                                 375       300                       30 0                           112500       10          45000
20. Suieo   t(Part tie)                    I                                     I       100                       100                              1200
Total        3433156                   267000
3S2B732                  306600
6rnd Total: Exoenditure an Pay & T.A. Rs.4134S47              11914  Say        11814/Der tubewel
hmex. -   M.. - F      ?2



ANNEXURE-14
SECOND U.F. PUBLIC TUSEWELL FROJECT
EXFENDITURE INCURRED UNDER THE PROJECT
I5.NO.:           ITEM: 83-B4  1 - 84-85  : B5-86 d: 86-E7-    87-88  1 88-89  : 89-90      .90-91                       TOTAL
1 WORI'S EXPENDITURE         : 1436.19   1687.47   3630.34 :3970.92   3749.85 I 4360.93 : 6103.26 1 670.57 1  25609.53-t
;  :           :          :         :         '1         :         :          :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    I  :  
:  2  ESTABLISHMENT EXFENDITURE       92.78    177.'4    300.93 : 412.52    604.91 : 572.34 : 924.6B    689.88 :   3775.5e I
-- -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-_--_ _ _--- - - - -- -- -- -- -- -- --- - - - - -- -- 
:TOTAL WORKS EXFENDITURE      15'2E.97 : 1845.01 : 3931.27 : 4383.44 : 4354.76 : 4933.27 : 7027.94 : 1360.45 :  29385.11 :
3 -  IEXPENDITURE ON AGRICULTURE2                                 :         I         I          :         :
I     :DEVELOPMENT                :    5.74      32.51     42.48 : 192.45 : 206.27 : 403.68    3 329.57 :                 1212.70 1
:     :TOTAL EXPENDITURE ON THE  I                                 :                             I :  :
:      PROJECT                    : 1534.71   lE97.52   3973.75 : 4575.89 ' 4561.03 , 5336.95 ' 7357151   1360.45 2  30597.81 :
LAl
as
Anna;x. -C;PCR - FES '92
PFage 49



57
ANNEXURE-15
SECOND U.P. FUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Revenue per tubewell
Averaoe Discharge                           3300 GFH
Rates for water charoes
Kharif =               10000 GFH/Rs.  1.2
Rabi =                  5000 GFH/Rs.  1.2
So Rates oer tubewell
Kharif = Rs. 3.96/Hours
Rabi      Rs.7.92/Hour
Averaqe hours tuns for 1990-91 are:-
Kharif =       720
Rabi =        1127
Revenue Der tubewell         720*3.96+1127*7.92
2e5l.2  892S.84
11777.04
Say Rs.      11777
Annex. - C/FPCR - FEB '92                                              Fage 50



58
ANNEXURE-16
SECOND U.P. F'UBLIC TUBEWELLS FfROJECT
~_      9 '.9 ". -1  -              -     I       9.  v               N         _
Caoital cost of works oer tubewell
Total caoital cost of the works            25609.33 lacs
Number of tubewells constructed under    pr oject
(i) 150m'.3/tubewells                3312
(ii) 30Om^3/tubewells                   70
(iii)Modernization of OSTs             460
(iv)connection of OSTs to             384
dedicated feeder'
Cost of tubewell as estimated in the oroject
(a)15Om,''3/hour (I.S.T)           @@a4.79 Lacs
(b;3Oe:m13/hout-(I.S.T.)          @4e . 1 1 Lacs
(c)Modernization of OST           @@@73.07 Lacs
(d)Connection of OST to
dedicated feedet                 ' @@0O.92 Lacs
In view of the latest numbers constructed- t'he oropottional
cost of tubewells should be as follows
150m=3/hour: 3*0m^3/hour, mod:connection:- 1 1.69: :.64:C. 19
Weiohted no of tubewell constructed cortesDondino to
15SCm^3/hr
as reference to the Drooject cost=
= 3312+70*1.69+468*o.64+384*. 19
= 3312+118.3+299.52+72.96
Sav         @s@3 803. Oc:
The weiohted capital cost of works per uLnit tubewell
of 150m^3/hour therefore  =
Rs.           673399
Annex. - C/PCR - FEB '92                                                 Faoe 51



59
ANNEXURIRE-17
SECOIND U.F. F"UEL1C TUBEWELLS PROJECr-
DETAILS OF WORV:KING EXPENSES
S.N.       DESCRIPTIO N                    OTY       RATE          AMOUNT
Rs
1                 2                      3                         5
1 E:tension and improvement.                 1             15          15
2 Maintenance of works.                      1           7000        70o0
3 Enerov charces according to
HV-2 Tariff.
'.1 With aver-are caoacity of               17.5              52      10920
17.5 HP.each.
3.2 With averaae consumDtion of
15 unit/hour tu.n Der tubewell
and averace running hours as
1647                                  27705             0.6      16623
4 ContribLution to deoreciation
reserved fund @3.25%. of capital
cost of works.
(as oet annexLute.16)                6773398         3.25;;      2 1  5
5 Establishment.
(as oet annexure.113)                     1            1114      11814
6 Collection of charoes of oross         11777             6;'    706.62
RevenLie.
7 TooJ.s and olants ordinarv.                1            1.0O        100
8 Audit and account charoes of          34550              1,.     345.5
@ 1;. of item (1,2.3)
69409.12
Sav Rs. 69409
Anne:.   C/FCR - FEE '92                                                 Face 52



60
AtINEXURE-18
SECOND U.P. PLUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
I Capital cost of project                         Rs3O,597.60
Weighted number of 150in^3/hout- tubewell
(as per annexure.14)                             PS3,903.00
Capital cost per unit tubewell                 RsSO4,570.O0
2 Direct revenue per tubewell                     Rsll,777.00
(as per annexure.15)
3 Working expenses                                Rs69,409.00
(as per annexuro.17)
4 Indirect retturn
Incremental Benefits Kharif for 1477    Rs349,050,755.00
tubewell (as per annexure.8)
Profit per- tulbewell                          Rs236,234.00
Increase in profit Rabi for 2466          :.Rs554,274,240.00
Tubewells (as per annexure.12)
Profit per tubewell
Indirect benefit for the year per              Rs4G1,090.00
tubewells
5 Percentage of direct revenue return on
capital excluding interest.
11777-69409/804570                        -7.16%     -
6 Working expenses including 10%            69409+80457         =RsI49,866.00
interest on capital cost
Benefit cost ratio                        (4G1090-69409)/149866
2.61
7 Percentage economic return of project  (461090-G9409)*100/804570
48.68 .
Annex. - C/PCR - FEB '92                                                       Page 53



te.,_E AL.4E
SECOGD U.P. FPUBLIC TUEMWELL F6ROJECT
CROPPING INTENSITY FOR THE PROJECT IURIM3 89-9)
SECIhl EI DETAILS CFf2ST FfiOJECT DURING 89-90)
SL.       NAME OF CRF;                       WESTEURI RESICN                :              CENTRAL RE6CIt                   I             EASTEFR  REGION
t10  .                        ---------------------- ----------------------------_____-_-_                                   --  - -_ __--___----  ____      __   ___   _
PROMFISED    DURIN6 89-90       7. RISEFALL IFfiFOSED        DURIING E9-90     I REENFALL   PROPOSED I  DihIN6 a9-90    1% RISEIFAPJL
A-S PER SAF:AS PER AR;ICUILTUE ; OF TARAET  lAS FER SAR,AS FEfi AGRICf LTUSE   OF TARGET  :AS FEfi SARIAS FER AGRICULTURE :OF TARGET
f                        2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~RFOfRT                                   X P Rff                                        R FEPORT.     I
* _____ ----   ----     ----- - -------- - ---.. - -     -- ---- -  ---- -------   -  ------------------------------------- -----                              -
I 'PADDY                            ; 4               23.7 :t69.3                 28                  23.8 1-17.1                41                  51.8 1+26.3
2  .NAIZE                       12                 11.1  -0.1          1        8 I                 5.4 1-45                   aI                    5 1-37.5
3 PULSES                            -                   4.2  +100         I         6                  4.7 :-21.7                  2                  2.9 :*45          :
:    .                        a           :                    '             a           :                    ;             .           :                    a             :
4  OIL SEDS                :: -3 .5  tlPO                                          -                   7.9 ;1+100                     ;               1.2  +100
5  ?ZAD  CROP                       _ *                   4 :t10O                   -                  1.9  i100                   - 1                2.1 tlO               F
a~ a               a*                                                                                             .          .aa
.6  OT`r  KHRIARF           :         32        .        20.5  -353                  12                  14.2       j lB.Q :         12:                 9.5 ;-20. 
:    a(sorOaua.sillets etc.l:                                  I             aa                                             a           a                    a             a
7  *lEAT                   1       37;                60.2 1t6G0                  45 I                53.6               I 1.1   30.                 56.5+BB.3
81t6AlI                            15:                  3.9 :-74          1       203                  7.6 :-62                   10                  4.8 1-52          :
5 :PEAS                    :        4                   1.5 .-62.5        :        8                   1.1 11-6.3        :        3                   1.7 :-43.3        :
: 10o isTARD                            8:               3.7 1-33.8         t        4a                    3  -2           ;        5                   1.1 t-78
a                                                           a             a                       i        :                         a 
:11 'POTATO                                               ' T 3.4 :t13.3     1        2 :                2.3 tti5                    2.                 2.3 :M15
12                        I        1 a                                               a                                    
a    :                        a          :                     a         .   ;           a.                   I             I           i                    ;            : 
E12  orf A         1                14;                 8.5 1-39.3         1        7                  14.2 IMt02.9               1';                 4.7 1-68.7
: a   aarle v.fodder etc.)  :            :                     :             :                     a                        a           a                    a :
:13  EUJGARC4E                        109                13.1 1+31           :        6 1                3.6 1-40           :        3:                 6.9  14130        t
a----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ----                                ----------- ------------
149                161.3  t8.3                 147                143.3  -2.4                 131                150.3  *14.1        ;
= __===_ _ =========__=== ==== _-==     -  _ :==                                                                                         - -  -  ----- -  --__ =-==. _ = =-=-=
A,r.ne. -C!fCR - FEB '92                                                                             Pace 54



62
ANNJEXURE-2')
SECOND UP FUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
A?ETRArT OF CROFFPING INTENSITY OF AGRO ECOtMICAL
SURVEY STUDY BY UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT
2SL. :TUBEJELL                                                                CROPPING INTENSITY IN PERfCENTAGE
INO  INO GrRJP      VILLAGE    ,DISTRICT(ZONE)            CLUSTER        -----------------------------------
1 195 2-6    1986-87   1 1987-2     19286-89
__    _     _      _-                            - -  ---   ---   -   --   -    - - - - - - -
I         2             3                4                   5               6          7          B          9
1 1194 MG   , andikala        Mau E)           :Moharmadabad         1             148.30    163.50    183.05
2 1175 SS   VJatan            !AzamoarhCE)       Sacari               i            141.00    163.00,  189.00
I1244 PG    Banbhaaalour   G6orakhour (E)        Comoieroanj             1 25.00    175.90    206.80
4 l19 RG    ,Giraiooda        Deoria(E)          Rudramur ,                                   177.60    194.60'
5 18 PG     !Deoria           Allahabadlc)       Jasra                             102.00    125.50    145.50
6 :12 BG     5ujauna          Allahabadc) i      Jasra                    8.6.00    92.0'    131.00    156.00
7  10 8 5G  ,Lalchandwala   H4aridwar           !Gavardhanour                       124.60    145.70    168.730
81110 e 0 I  Tajour           Etawah(c)         Widhima-I                 ?94. 00    172.00 .  181.90    197.60
9 123 VG    !hrivari         !Et wah(cb          Vidhuna-l1              12 2. 1.32.00    148.00    156.00
10 1125 H5   1Eewad3           !Moradabad        .Ha3anour                          140.40    142.3(0    162.50)
11 165 EK     No31aoadam       Ali  oat,(w)      1Chandl.us               153.70   2206.5')   l16.B2)    208.20
12 165 DG     Piaori Patarhar Ianpur Dehat(cl :Jhinjhak                  132.2d    139.30    175.83    182.5d)
1  1122 AY    Gorakhour        Sultarnurkc)       ArAethi                           177. 0f)   178.01'   179.00
1:4 1 17 KG    2hawanipu'  'sulltanDu'(c)         Kshicur'             ,            17.90    172.5'i   176.5')
1I 1236 5O    E:.aoha-Ghara    Gorakhour(E)       Fiorauli                          104.50    161.00    190.00
16 1757       Dinaour         /Varanasi(E)        Chirri aan                         11.0')   157.5')   179.0')
17 :5  1G    lMau.a           :Hi2cu.    c        Ma3udha                I00.00 1(I00.0        104.501  109.50
16 184 S5    ;Nandoura         mlesru (i;)        i a  rSaidhana                     86.00     12c.0')    I- )l.dO
1?917- S E:,   Ni oni           .'nandshahar(w) :Danur .                            14E.0 1Q  160.20    176.70 I
.0  174 N5    Dayal Falla       Buiandshaha, (w)  Nlakur                            157.5d               1I2.61)
21 141 FET    Euloria          FFilibhitlo)      FFilibhit                                     1 125.00    146.00Q
221 192 BE    Sanjanout         Ear-eiii,         Meer-nj                        :  150.01) 1 164.00    1 75.00 1
23                  -a5956      Ghurzdera  Ghiaba'd  Iluadna-alSardhana)'  67.00    152.00 1  196.00
2 41115 KG   .Salkauti          Mu zaffern        ') Don                         .  144.00                2-2.3E
25 1101 MG  '1GrdhanDur        :Ha i d wa; lw      orakhour            1         1  146.2')       1       177.'6
62 1249 BG   1N:z itbad         Eadaun(ci        ;Kaoar Chowk          1                                 1 I17.)0  1
2.7 1196 SG '53!an~i          .-aharanaour(w?   Eabail                       1  1  160.21) 1  195         221.35 1
!28  :!.  16   :Nao0ur         Eadauntck          Eadaunfc)                   9 100.97 ' I'l.QI .  160.67 .  144.6o
.29 1'16 55   'Gausa           lRaebvreilIv      :Salon                              107.90 '  151.20B    168.32
'), 1271 Br   'Raharia        'E3dauni(.         "Vajiroanj            '                       Il.O00    I 56.'0.
1 '94 KS    Ebkadla            Fatehour Ic)      :'haa-i I                          16. 1-'  l  ss 55.G0    1 173.0G '
1'2 1167 EGG  iJaUha-pur'        Banda (c)         Tindwar'             '             100.00    133.')'  '  1-;.0G)
133  209 AG    Baharojiur      't'ani(ws          hlionan                200.Q5    205.0Of!   20E. 0  ' 210.00 '
Total                 1173.77   4041.21   4575.20   5567.57
Aver-aoe               I 31 1,130.37    139.37  157.79    173.99
ScOURrC   EASED ON! BASELINE SUR'tEY WhJA
Annex. - C!FCR - FE;    9                                                                                                    Faue 55



63
SECOND U.F. PUJEt C TLoEE.._   ;,RECT                        ANNEXURE-21
------------------------------------
CROPWISE IRRIF:ATIC.-4  / WhT_R r-FTH FR=k &E F-CST t R Ci i
================= ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~  ========== ===== ===================
:EL.:                                :. "'CS .    M3ATPN  /   ,    E            IN INCHES PER WATERING!
:NO    T.W & GROUP   :YEAR           ----------------------------------------------------
FADDi             WHE'T           FULSES          VAGETABLES
1 :194 MG             :FRE                -               2/6"             2/'"               2/3"
t :MOHAMI.AD;tBAD  :s8- e7 5e                             417"             4f"         :      -'
:MDHMMADASAD   :SS-8~~~~~~~~~  4/6           47                4/ " "             7/5"-
2 :175 SG             :-RE                                2/7"        :    2/6"               2/4"
t    :SAGRI        :8-9         :     4/6"             418"              4/8"        :     7/6"
:2,o  G G            :F'RE                -              2/NA                 -                 -
: FPIF'RAULi       : 8-2       :      -         :     3/NA                -                 -
4 : 108 Ms            : PRE              3/4"             2/8"              1/4"        :     2/4"
:GOVARDHANF'UR   :e8-e?9              5/7"             5/6"              3/5!"             4 /"
5 :101 MG             t-RE                -               2/6"        :       -               4/4"
:GOVARDHANPUR   :s-_-es               45"        :     3/6'              1/6'        :     4/4"
.6o :'5?7  G          :PRE                N     A A                   :      NA         :      NA
:MURADNAAR         :se-es              .-                -               4/7"              9/5"
t7 :125 HG              :-'RE        :       NA       :      N A        :      NA         :      NA
:HASANF'UR         :S8-89              NA        :                 :     4/7"        :5"
S :5 5 Ei:            :FRE         :   2/10"'             2/r         :     2/7"        :     3/7
:CHANDA!UJ         :82- o9            5/5-       :     5/6'        :    3/4"               6/4'
9 : 2':9 A            :F RE        :                :      NA         :      NA         :      NA
:GANJDUND-WARA   :S--e9        :       rN              NA         :      NA         :
1-1 I5            :=RE         :     2/8              2/6"       :        -        :
:' - E A ._:E-E                :     4/4"       :     4/4"        :     1/4"        :     4:"
1' :2. 71               :.R_         :     3/7"       :     2/6         :    2/7"         :
:~'AtEEF&AN'      :_--       :     5. ,6'     :      /S/4     .:     J36'         :        /L
:MEERGANJ          :8E-E-              --                -         :     4 7'              E/_'
' iZ: B Srz             R: F_:              -:                -           
t JAER-A           :P-29               _                 -         :     55'"        :     5/4"
'14 :2'   ES            :FPRE        :                :     2/16                 -        :     4/4" 
KiAD=R CH'r:           e -- EJ                        :/?                3/6"       :     4/4"
t 1 : t ? R l.         RE         :                :r      A: .S            NA                NrA  
E      i:,P , __-S-.I-89           :      NA        ;                 :      NA         :      NA
:     :::5 B      :PR_         :      N r I            NA        :       N4A       :       NA
;    :iDrf,NA-'          85- R       :       NE       .      N_.               NA                NA
:7 :__ MS_             wPRE         :      NA        :        -        :                          - :   ~   ;
MAtD.                :EE-cC       :     4/<'       :     o'&:"                              : bs 
1I i:;                  :PRE                 Nr.             N-         :      NA         :
TINDWAR.          :0e-8        :      NA        :      N3 :             3/7"               NA
;  A/SER4-AE       =---E          2.5!, "            2 6.6             1./6"       ;   3/4.6'
:S-89        :  4.2 .5 _         3. 7/5. 9         3.2 6.2           6.3/4.7"
sC_R_E C   : EA `E     M N _E_ N-      Z:
Anne.    - ';F_R   - FE--  '.2
_. , _  =   



64
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related  Bank  Credits
Loan/Credit                      Prs                        Year of   Sats            Comments
ArlDoval
First Tubewell      Financed the construcion of 800 public  1961    Completed    Implementadon of well
Irrigation Project    tubewells (between Septembert 1961 and                     construction program was
(Cr.8-IN)           March 1964)                                                  satisfactory but operational
problems (conveyance channels
incomplete and poorly
constructed, command area too
large, procedure for water
allocation weakly enforced,
systems for O&M of the wells
inadequate) caused benefits
realized to fal short of
potential.
UP Public           Two-year program to test and demonstrate   1980    Complted    Data collected and evaluated
TubeweU Project    improved tubewell technology through                          confimned that the improved
(Cr.1004-IN)        construction of about 500 public tubewells                  wells can be constructed on a
wide scale at acceptable cost and
can provide timely, reliable and
equitable water.
Bihar Public        Installation of 500 new tubeweU systems,   1985    On-going  Largely based on experience
Tubewell Project    modernization of 700 and rehabilitadon of                    gained with UP Public
(Cr. 1737-IN)       2,800 existing systems.                                     Tubewell Project (UP I) and
Second UP Public Tubewells
Project (UP II).
West Bengal Minor   Construction of deep tubewell systems to   1985    On-going  Partially based on experience
Irrigation Project  serve about 67,000 ha, 5,400 shallow                         gained with UP I and UP II
(Cr. 1619-IN)       tubeweU systems, 10,000 open-dug wells                      projects.
and river lift installations.
2.   Project Timetable
ILSm                             Date Planned         DateRevised        Date Actual
IdentificatiornPreparation                                               Through 1981
Preparation Mission                                                      January 1982
Appraisal Mission                                                        AprillMay 1982
Credit Negotiations                                                      January 1983
Board Approval                                                           March 15, 1983
Credit Signature                                                         March 31, 1983
Credit Effectiveness                                                     May 25, 1983
Credit Closing                     March 31, 1988     March 31, 1989     March 31, 1991
March 31, 1990
March 31, 1991



65
Comments
At appraisal, UP was regarded as progressive in respect to cost recovery procedures for public
groundwater development. The water supply was allocated and charged on a volumetric basis and
Government systematically reviewed charges at regular intervals. With respect to the existing
18,000 public tubewells of unimproved design located throughout the State, cost recovery was
poor. Main reason for this was that the power supply failed to meet increasing demand in quantity
or quality of service; the water conveyance system in open channels was incomplete and inefficient
and water allocation procedures were not effective. In addition, repair of unserviceable pumping
units was inadequate and often delayed and, generally, management of public sector tubewells was
poor.
The quantity and quality of irrigation service provided by public tubewells means that farmers
attempting modem irrigated agriculture take a calculated risk; that is except for the farmers located
close to the well point. Although all farmers are allocated water on a volumetric basis, the full
supply does not necessarily reach their fields due to incomplete distribution systems.
An appropriate water charge system for improved tubewell systems would be different from that of
existing tubewells in the State. First, there needs to be a charge which reflects the 'opportunity
cost' of the improved irrigation service. Second, there needs to be a volumetric water charge
which would provide revenue that is proportional to tubewell utilization; this charge would be the
same for old and new public tubewells. In addition, it is appropriate that UPSEB charge for power
supply to improved public tubewells on a 'metered' basis. Furthermore, when justified in terms of
the quality of the power supply, UPSEB should gradually raise power tariffs for all consumers to
reflect the 'marginal cost' of power with the ID making corresponding adjustments in water
charges. In this way, the real O&M costs of providing an irrigation service with improved project
tubewells can be established.
Negotiations: With respect to Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement, the representatives of the
Association confirmed that application of this section should not be interpreted as precluding
UPSEB from charging ID for power provided to project wells, on the basis of a combination of a
flat rate and a unit rate based on actual metered consumption.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
in SDR million
World Bank Fiscal Year   EFY4    EF8      E8      EY8    EM      EM       EY9    M1l
AppraisalEstimate(IDA)   24.3    51A      76.0     91.6
Appraisal Estimate (IFAD)  7.2    16.1    25.7     32.0       -
Actual (IDA)              1.5      9.0    28.8     46.5    66.0      78.0     83.6   91.61"
Actual (IFAD)             0.2     2.6      5.6       7.3    14.5     18.6     22.6   25.61/
Actual as % of Estimate (IDA)  6    18      38       51       72       85       91    100
Actualas % of Estimate (IFAD)  3    16      22        23      45       58       71     80
1/ As of March 31, 1991.
Comments: Disbursements during the first two years of implementation were slow due to
procurement and coordination problems (Part I, paras 5.1 and 5.6).



66
4. Project Implementation
ndicators                 Unit          Appisal        Actual I      o of SAR
Estimate
Improved Standard Tubewells
(150 m3/hour capacity)
Constructed and energized         Number        2,000          3,287        164
Operational                                     2,000          3,214        161
Improved Standard Tubewells
(300 m3/hour capacity)
Constructed and energized                         200              70        35
Operational                                       200              70        35
Connecting of Old Standard
Tubewells to Dedicated Feeders
Operational                                       650             363        56
Modernization of Old Standard
Tubewells
Operational                                       100             451      451
1/ As of  March 1991.
Comments: When additional funds became available, as a result of increases in the Dollar/SDR
and Rupee/Dollar exchange rates, the original appraisal target for ISTs of 150 m3/h capacity was
increased to 3,312 units. Due to fewer than expected suitable sites for the 300 m3 ISTs, the target
was reduced substantially. The dilapidated conditions of many OSTs to be connected prompted a
much larger than expected number of OSTs to be modernized (para 5.3). Concurrently with the
increased targets and in response to a late start, the project was extended by a total of three years
(paras 5.2 and 5.3).



5.      ProJect Costs and Financing
A.  Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                                 Actual
Local      Foreign Exchange     Total         IDc       Foreign Exchange      Total
Costs              Costs                      Costs              Costs
-QJ (US$ )00 >-                                       -----US$ '000)----
Land Acquisition                             1.3            -                 1.3          0.8            -                 0.8
New Tubewells
-150mm3/hour units                         88.1             6.2             94.3)        140.8          10.0              150.8
-300 m3/hour units                          14.9            1.1              16.0)
Modemizatim ofoldtubewells                  3.1             0.2               3.3          5.7           0.4                6.1
Connecting old tubewells to                  2.8            0.2               3.0          3.5           0.3                3.8
ded fededs
Buildings                                    3.4             -                3.4          2.2            -                 2.2
O & M equipnent                              OA             0.1               0.5          2.2           0.5                2.7
Rsearch Knd developnent                      0.8            0.1               0.9 )
Monitoring andevaluafion                     0.1             -                0.1 )        0.5           0.1                0.6
Trabiing,studiesandvisits                    0.1            0.1               0.2
Agricultural development                     6.1             -                6.1          9.1            -                 9.1
Administration and engineerming             7.1              -                7.1         44.4            -                44.4
' Base Cost                               128.2             8.0            136.2
- Physical Contingencies                     6.3            0.4              6.7
- Price Contingencies                      37.0             2.3             393
UPProjectCost                             171.5            10.7            182.2         209.2          113               220.5
Project Preparation Fund                     9.4            0.6             10.0            9.6          0.6               10.2
Total Project Costs                       180.9            113             192.2         218.8         11.9               230.7
Comments: Through the increase in dollar/SDR and rupee/dollar exchange rates, additional funds became available which were mostly used to finance more new tubewells. The
inrease in administration and engineering cost is striking.



68
B. ProJect Flnancing
Plaed (SAR)                 Actual (PCR)
IDA     IFAD   GO!    Total             IMA      IFAD    GO(    Total
-(USS MiDion)-                    ---------(US$ Milion)--
1. Civil Works
(a) Completd tubewels         44.2  17.1   20.4    81.7               92.3    27.2    31.3    153.8
(b) Cornnction of old          1.9    0.7    0.9       3.5             2.5     0.8     0.5        3.8
standard tubewels to
dedica-ed feeder Ies
2. Equipnmt and
Materials
(a  SteelandPVCpipes,         36.7   14.0   16.9   67.6                3.8     1.2     1.1        6.1
casings nd fittings
b) Equipment and               2.2     -       -      2.2              1.5     0.5     0.7        2.7
velicls
3.  Agricultual                    4.0    2.6      -      6.6              5.5     3.6       -        9.1
Development
4.  Researchand                    0.8    0.6      -      1.4              0.4     0.1      0.1       0.6
Dcveloxnenx
Monitwring and
Evaluation; Trainiig
5.  GOI Project                   10.0      -      -    10.0              10.2      -       -         0.6
Prepation Fund
6.  Unallocated                    1.2    03    17.7   19.2                 -       -    44.4        44.4
Total                            101.0   35.3   55.9   192.2             116.2   33.4    81.1       230.7
Comments:  Upon Goverament request, the Bank. effective 1 July 1987, increased its share in civil works, equipment and
material to be fianced from the oginl 55% to 70%. The share of IFAD for these categories remained unchanged at 20%.



69
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
kxIndica                                               Appraisal                 PCR
Estimate                 Estiman
Potentially benefitting farm families                  440,000                  664,000
(nos.)
Irease in irrigated area (ha) 1/                       235,000                  385,000
Ireased foodgrain production                           300,000                  422,0002/
(tons/year)
Ineased olseed production                              9,900                      n.a
(tonsyear)
Increased sugarcane production                         371,200                      n.a.
(tons/ear)
Value added to local economy                                320                     n.a
(Rs million/year)
Generated farm employment (jobs)                        80,600                      n.a.
1/  Excluding an ncrease in irnigated area resulting from the comecting of old standard tubewells to 'dediated" feeder lines.
2/ Composed of 72,000 tons of rice (110,000 tons of paddy), 35,000 tons of maize and 315,000 tons of wheat. Rice and
maize are proxies for all kharif crops; wheat is proxy for all rabi crops.
B. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return                                    Appraisal Estimate           PCR Estimate
Improved Standard Tubewell System
- 150m3/hour                                                     24.5                       n.a.
- 300 m3Jhour                                                    28.2                       n.a.
Modernization of an old standard tubeweU                         31.2                        n.a.
Improved power supply for an existing tubeweU                    50.0                        n.a.
Typical cluster of weUs                                          29.8                        n.a.
Total of all ISTs implemented                                     -                           1
The better performing ISTs (20% of total - Model 1)               -                          23
The average performing ISTs (50% of total - Model 2)              -                          neg.
The poor performing ISTs (309o of total - Model 3)                -                          neg.
Comments: Since the ISTs account for 95% of project cost, the PCR estimate was made only for ISTs. The 300 m3/h ISTs
were assumed to irrigate twice as large an area as the 150 m3 ISTs. Otherwise, no distinction was made between the perfornance
of the two (see Attachment).



70
C. Financial Impact
SAR Estimatc                               PCR Estimatc
(Model I)   (Model 2)   (Model 3)    Weighted Average
Net Farm Income I/
Without Project                    1552t              196           103          74               112
With Project                       512              1,090           403          253              440
1/ In 1990/91 rupees.
2/ Refers to 0.4 ha farm.
3/ Based on assumptions used for estimation of ERR (see Attachment).
D. Studies
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal        Status             kpa
Socio-Econornic Study of Farmers    A. Evaluation of the extent to which  Completed           Negligible
Benefitting from the Project        the weaker farmers were able to fully
utilize the irrigation service and to
purchase inputs other than water to
achieve fuDl development benefits.
B. Formulation of proposals to enable
the full development benefits of the
project to be achieved in a timely
manner.
Comments: The study was hampered by limited amount of benchmark data as wel as by limited perforrnance data from project
tubewells, since scheduled tubewells had been in operation for only two seasons. However, apart from these shortcomings, the
conceptual approach to the study was limited to simple parameter comparison. No attempt was made to analyse why certain
parameters such as fertilizer use had changed and what could be done to overcome problems. No distinction was made between
weaker and better-off farmers. Consequently, the study could neither accomplish the evaluation asked for, nor did it formulate
any proposal that could satisfy the second objective of Lhe study as stated above.



71
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant Project                Subiec                           Deadline for
A mtSga                                                          Compliance
2.05                Maintain within ID an adequately staffed          -            In corpUlance
Project Coordinating Unit
2.06                Deploy and train staff in its Agricultural and    -             OQM divisions established but
Irrigation Departments, in accordance with                     not the circle
staffing schedules and organizational plans.
2.07                Fuimish an annual work plan and schedule for  7,101/83         In compliance
research and developmnent activities and carry
out work plan after getting IDA's comments
2.08                Furnish drafts of design and O&M manuals     12J31/84;         In compUance
revised data
12/13/89
2.09                Maintain Public Tubewell Electrification Unit     -             In compliance
in SEB.
2.10(a)             Install and maintain electric.feeder lines.       -             Partially complied
2.10(b)             Provide each tubeweU irrigation system with       -            In compliance
electric power not later than two months after
completion
2.10(c)             Provide electric power for 16 hr/day with         -            Partially complied
voltage fluctuation no greater than 6%
X 11(a)             Carry out a socio-economic study of farmers      -             In compliance
benefitting from the project
2.1 1(b)            Furnish results of above study.              07/31/86;         In compliance
revised date:
04/30/89
2.13(a)             Furnish TOR for a mid-term review of              -            In compliance
agricultural development activities.
2.13(b)             Furnish report on results of mid-term review  06/30/85         In compliance
and canry out improvements and modifications
after IDA's comments.
3.01                Maintain separate records and accounts and      -              In compliance
fumish accounts and financial statements not
later than nine months after end of each such
year.
3.02                Fumish Audit Report immediately following       -               In compliance
fmalization.
3.04(a)             Furnish a proposal for water charge system.  12V31/83;         Complied
revised date
06/30/89
3.04(c)             Set water charges to cover 0 & M costs and      -               Proposal (3.04a) is still under
some capital cost, taking into account                         GOUP review.
farmers' repayment capacity.
3.05                Until the water charge system referred to in    -              Rates were raised in 1983,
Section 3.04 is applied, UP to apply current                   subsequent to expeience gained
volumetric water charge system which should                   in UP TubeweUs I and have
be reviewed by April 30 and October 31 every                   since then been applied without
year.                                                          further change.



72
INDmI
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH TUBEWELIS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Missions
Type of of       Date                 No. of   Mandays        Spedal-    Perfornace Rating         Type o d
Mlsslon      (MoJYr.)      By       Persons   In Field      katlon a/      Status b/   Trend ct  Problems
Preparation        thru 1981    GOUP
Appraisal            4-5182     IDA
Supervisions:                   IDA
1                    6183                   7          3        EC.EP,GS,E          2           3          M
2                     1/84                  2          4             IE             2           3          M
3                    6/84                   2          5             IE             2           2          M
4                    11/84                  3          4           AG,IE            2           2          M
5                    9/85                   2          4           AG,IE           na           na         na
Availability   Project   Develop.   Overall
of Funds e/  Mgmt e/  Impacte/   Statuse/
6                    4/86                   4          4         AG,EC,IE           2           2           1           2
7                     1/87                  5          4        AG,EP,GS,IE         2           2           1           2
8                    7/87                   5          4          not avail.        1           2           1          2
9                    4/88                   5          3         EP,GS.IE           1           2           1          2
10                   1/89                   7          5      AG,EP,GS,E.PE         2           2           1          2
11                   9/89                   4          4         EC,GSjE            1           2           1          2
12                   6/90                   5          5        EP,GS,E,PE          1           2           1          2
a/ AG-Agriculture; EC--Economist; EP-Elec. Power Sp.; IE=lrrig.Engr.; GS=Giroundwmter Sp.; PE-Procuremnent Engr.
b/ Performance Rating: Status: 1 =problem free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; 3=major problems.
c/ Trend: I-improving; 2z'atationary; 3=detcriorating.
d/ Type of problems: F=hinancial; M=Management T=Technical.
e/ Mandatory Ratings: 1 =no significant problems; 2=moderate problems; 3=major problems being
addressed adequately; 4=major problems not being addressed adequately.



INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit NO. 1332-IN)
8. Use of Bank Resources (continued)
B. Staff Inputs (sws)
Stage of Project     FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   Total
Cycle
Identification/Preparation   22.4                                                                           22.4
Appraisal               22.2   22.6                                                                         44.8
Negotiations                    6.6                                                                          6.6
Supervision                     5.6     23    18.6   21.9   13.4   21.9    6.5    4.9    2.8               118.6
Project Completion                                                                                   1.6    1.6
Totals                  44.6   34.8     23    18.6   21.9   13.4   21.9    6.5    4.9    2.8    1.6    194



74
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Attachment 1. Economic and Financial Analysis
A. Economic Analysis
1.     At appraisal, separate ERRs had been estimated for individual project components. The
data available at completion do not lend themselves to this approach. Apart from a great diversity
in well performance, ranging from excellent to near failure,1 it was also found that much of the
evaluation that had been undertaken was based on a mix of wells at various stages of irrigated
agriculture development. A positive bias was introduced by evaluating only those wells for which
complete sets of data were available and where it can be assumed that they were well above average
in 0 & M and other aspects.
2.      To test the viability of the project at the level of the economy, an overall analysis has been
made with a time horizon of 20 years. Cost streams reflect actual incurred cost and actual
implementation of project works. The calculation of agricultural benefits is based on the physical
build-up and performance of Improved Standard Tubewell Systems (IST) and on the resulting
incremental agricultural production. The analysis is in 1991 constant rupees. Deflators and the
conversion factor applied are shown in Table 1 of this attachment; financial prices and economic
values of crops and inputs are presented in Tables 2 and 3. Future prices are based on World Bank
Primary Commodity Forecasts dated January 1991.
3.      To take account of the diversity in well performance, three models have been prepared
that each represent a CCA of 100 ha and a different level of IST performance. Only wells of 150
m3/hour capacity are considered, assuming that the 300 m3/hour wells which represent only 2% of
the total, would irrigate exactly twice the CCA, i.e. 200 ha and therefore are comparable to two of
the smaller IST (Tables 4 to 8). Model 1 represents the upper 20% of performance, Model 2
stands for 50% of IST, with average performance and Model 3 characterizes the lower 30% of well
performance.
4.      Co. Except for the two minor components, 'modernization of old tubewells' and
'connecting old tubewells to dedicated feeders', which together represent 5% of the project cost
(Table 10), all project costs have been included in the cost streams and adjusted by the standard
conversion factor.
1     In one case that was studied, only 1 ha out of 100 ha was irrigated in Year 2 after
commissioning.



75
5.      The replacement costs for a 150 m3/hour IST are estimated as follows:
Item                     Estimated Service Life   Costs
(Years)            (BL&L
Pump set and auxiliary equipment            9                60,000
Pump house                                 17               25,000
Elevated tank                              17               60,000
Well                                       17              170,000
Distribution system                        25              430,000
Power transmission and trans-              25              140,000
formation (per tubewell)
Total                                                       885,000
6.      The O&M costs are calculated for a 150 m3/hour IST as follows:
(a) Irigation Department Fixed Costs Per Annum
Appraisal estimate (in 1991 Rupees)   =  Rs. 12,000
Mission estimate:
Part-time operator         Rs. 5,000
Minor repairs              Rs. 3,000
Major repairs              Rs. 4,000
Establishment costs        Rs. 3,000
Total                      Rs.15,000
(b) Energy Costs
With a weighted average pumping of 1,750 hours and a power input of 14 kW, the
energy consumed amounts to: 24,500 kWh.
Marginal rate of power = Rs. 1.5/kWh
Energy costs = Rs. 37,000 per IST
(c) Total O&M Costs Per IST
Rs.15,000 + Rs.37,000 = Rs.52,000 per annum
2     Costs are in 1990/91 rupees. Minor items such as replacement of controller, hour
meter, switches, alfalfa valves, etc., are covered under routine maintenance costs.



76
7.       Bnefits. The calculation of incremental benefits follows the build-up of IST in
operation. Based on the experience with project wells which have been operating five to six years,
it can be estimated that the average build-up time from commissioning of an IST to full
development is about four years and that in the first year, already about 60% of final average
irrigation intensity is reached. Further assumpdons are detailed below:
Cropping Intensity (%)
Eladf                     ERa                          ITI
Model I Model 2 Model 3   Model I Model 2 Model 3   Model I Model 2 Model 3
Pre-Projecto/     57     56        53         51     49      47        108    105      100
Future With       85     65        50         95      85     75        180       150   125
Project
a/   Derived from the SAR.
8.       The areas under the representative crops (paddy and maize for kharif, wheat as a proxy
for all rabi crops) and their vields in the 'pre-project' and 'future with' situations, are summarized
below. It has been assume, that production on rainfed areas which have remained rainfed after
creation of the tubewell i  ration potential, has not increased due to the project. Thus, the
comparison of production i. anited to newly irrigated areas and what these same areas produced
under previous rainfed cond. rions. No changes in yields and cropping pattern are assumed for the
'future without' situation.
Crop Yields and Aremas per CCA
Kharif                                             Rabi
Paddy                    Maize                     Wheat
Model 1 Model 2 Model 3   Model 1 Model 2 Model 3   Model I Model 2 Model 3
Pre-project
Yield (t/ha)  1.2      1.1    1.0         1.0      0.8    0.6        1.2      1.1    1.0
Area (ha)     30        10       5        20       10      10         50       35     30
Fallow (ha)    -       2.5    2.5         -        2.5    2.5         30       15      10
Future With
Project
Yield (t/ha)  3.0      2.5    2.5         2.0      1.8    1.6        3.0      2.5    2.0
Area (ha)      40       15       5        10       10      15         80      50      40



77
9.     The aggregate of incremental production from all project-financed IST is based on the
weighted mean of the three models. No distinction is made -between geographic regions, as
differences are considered minor in comparison to other factors that affect yields and production
(such as soil fertility, topography, power supply, extension cover, familiarity with irrigated
agriculture).
Khaif             Rabi
Paddy      Maize       Wheat
Pro-Project
Yield (tons/ha)                1.1        0.8         1.1
Area (ha)                      12.5      12.0        36.5
Future With Project
Yield (tons/ha)                2.6        1.8         2.5
Area (ha)                     17.0        11.5        53.0
10.      For the purpose of estimating the net revenue per crop, the production costs per ton are
derived from crop production costs that have been established on a hectare basis for the situation
'future with project' and 'at full development' (Table 9). The build-up in input use follows the
assumptions made on yield development, i.e. 60% in Year 1, 80% in Year 2, 90% in Year 3 and
100% in Year 4, after well commissioning.
11.      Based on the assumptions detailed in the preceeding paragraphs, the ERR of the
Second UP Public Tubewells Project is estimated at 1%, as shown in Table 11. The ERR for ISTs
under Model 1 (20% of the total) is estimated at 23%. The corresponding rate for Model 2 and
Model 3 ISTs is negative (Table 12).



78
B. Financial Analysis
12.       For farmers without a private irrigation source, annual per capita incomes "with" and
"without" the project had been estimated at appraisal. At full development, average per capita
income before water charges would increase by about Rs.350 (US$40). In 1990/91 prices this
would correspond to about Rs.543 or, reflecting the devaluation of the Rupee against the US
Dollar, to US$30. As shown below, the increase would vary by farm size class.
Per Capita Income (Rs.)
Without Project           With Prject                 Increase
Farm        (1982/83 (1990/91      (1982/83  (1990/91    (1982/83  (1990/91       (%)
Model          Rs.)    Rs.)           Rs.)      Rs.)        Rs.)       Rs.)
0.4 ha         100      155          330       512          230        357        230
1.4 ha        220      341           710      1,101         490       760         223
4.0 ha         420      651         1,260     1,953         840      1,302        200
Weighted       170      264          520       806          350       542         206
Average
13.     To assess the impact of the project on the income of participating farmers, the models
prepared for the economic analysis have been used. The production costs have been established in
financial terms for the without and with project situation. Family labor is not costed.
Production Cost per Hectare - Without Project
ED&                MaiX                   Wmia
Unit      Rs.       Unit       Rs.           Unit      Rs.
Fertilizer N           25        113         25       13             20       90
(kg/ha)
Fertilizer P            -          -         10       50              -        -
(kg/ha)
Fertilizer K
(kg/ha)
Seed kg/ha             40         60         15      21              80      136
Agrochemicals           -        100          -      100              -       50
(Rs/ha)
Labor (md/ha)         120    (1,200)         50     (500)            60      (600)
Draft Animal           18        360         10      200             18      360
pair day/ha)
Total per 1.1 t                  633                per 0.8 t 484           per 1.1 t 636
Total per ton                    575                per ton 605             per ton 578
Note: Yield assumption: paddy 1.1 tons, maize 0.8 tons and wheat 1.1 tons/ha.



79
Production Cost per Hectare - With Project
Paddy                                     Wheat
Unit       Rs.      Unit     Rs.        Unit         Rs.
Fertilizer N           50        250       40       200         50          250
(kg/ha)
FertilizerP            25        150       40       240         25          150
(kg/ha)
Fertilizer K           10         20       20        40         10           20
(kg/ha)
Seed (kg/ha)           45        108       20        42        100         260
Agrochem.                        200                200                     130
(Rs/ha)
Labour                130      (2,600)     65    (1,300)        90        (1,800)
(m.d./ha)
Draft An.              20        800        12      480         20          800
(Pair d.ha)
Total per 2.6 t                 1,528              1,200                   1,610
Total per ton                    588                667                     644
Note: Yield assumptions: Paddy 2.6 t, maize 1.8 t and wheat 2.5 t/ha.
14.    The net return per CCA is derived by applying cropping pattern and yields used in the
three models and by applying financial prices (Table 2) to the resulting production. On the
assumption that from each CCA a total of 150 families are benefitting and that, on average, each
family consists of five members, the per capita income from farming results as follows:



80
Per Capita Income (Rs.)
Without Prjec         With             Increase
(1983/84 Rs.) (1990/91 Rs.)   (1990/91 Rs.)   (1990/91 Rs.)  %
Model 1            128         196             1,090           894        456
Model 2             67         103              403            300        291
Model 3             48          74               253           179        242
Weighted Av.        73         112               440           328        293
15.      The above analysis shows that income from farming activities has increased on average
by 290% or by Rs.328 (US$18) per capita. This compares with an increase of 206% as estimated
at appraisal. Although the two sets of models are comparable only to a limited extent, their results
point into the same direction. At completion it is clearly illustrated that the net income from fanning
has increased substantially as a result of the project. It is also confirmed that average income levels
in UP farming continue to be low. Even under Model 1, the most favorable one and representing
about 20% of beneficiaries, the per caput income with project reaches only a level of Rs. 1,100 or
US$60.



81
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Attachment 1. Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 1. Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates
MUV Index a/    Deflator             Exchange Rate
(1983 = 100)                        (Rs to US$)
1983-84                99.28          153.39                 9.5
1984-85                98. 61         154.44                11.8
1985-86                107.87         141.18                12. 3
1986-87                122.47         124.35                12. 8
1987-88                132.88         114.61                13.0
1988-89                134.33         113.37                14.5
1989-90                138.41         110.03                16.7
1990-91                152.29         100.00                18.0 b/
a/ World Bank, October 1990.
b/ Includes period up to March 1991.
Conversion Factor
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)      0.8 I/
1/ Used for all conversions, including unskilled labor.



82
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Attachment 1. Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 2. Financial Prices of Crops and Inputs at Farm-Gate
(Current Rs.)
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91
Crops (Rs./ton)
Paddy                 1320      1370      1420     1460      1500     1600      1850      2220
Wheat                 1520      1570      1620     1660      1660      1830     2000      2400
Maize                 1240      1300      1300     1320      1350     1450      1650      1880
Seeds (Rs./kg)
Rice                   1.5       1.5      1.6       1.6       1.7      1.8       2        2.4
Wheat                  1.7       1.7      1.8       1.8       1.8       2        2.2      2.6
Maize                  1.4       1.4      1.4       1.5      1.5       1.6       1.8      2.1
Inputs (Rs./kg)
Fertilizer - N         4.5       4.6      4.7       4.8      4.8       4.9      4.9        5
Fertilizer - P          5        5.2      5.4       5.6      5.6       5.8       6         6
Fertilizer - K          2        2         2        2         2         2        2         2
Farm Labor (Rs./day)
Labor                   10       12        12       13        13       14.5      17        20
Bullock, pair          20        24       24        26        26       29        34       40



83
INDmu
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELIS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-lN)
Attachment 1. Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 3. Economic Values of Crops and Inputs at Farm-Gate
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91   1995       2000     2005
(Curnt Rs.) ---                                                          (1990/91 Rs.) ----
Crops (Rs./ton)
Paddy                 1140     1300     1140     1150      1290     1960     2430     2330     1400      1510     1330
Wheat                1460      1770     1930     1870      1560     2380     3090     2560     1830      2270     1850
Maize                1210      1520     1310     1060      890      1440     1720     1800     1130      1380     1230
Seeds (Rs./kg)
Rice                  1.1       1.3      1.1      1.2      1.3       2       2.4       2.3      1.4      1.5       1.3
Wheat                 1.5       1.8      1.9      1.9      1.6      2.4      3.1       2.6      1.8      2.3       1.9
Maize                 1.2       1.5      1.3      1.1      0.9      1.4       1.7      1.8      1.1      1.4       1.4
Inputs (Rs./kg)
Ferdlizer- N          3.9      5.9       5.2      4.7      4.6      7.1      7.4       9.1      7.8      7.4      7.1
Fertilizer - P        4.1       5        5        5.3       6       7.4      8.1       6.9      7.5      7.5      7.5
Fertlizer- K          2.3      3.1       3.3      3.1      3.3      4.2      5.2       5.7      4.6      4.6      4.6
Farm Labor (Rs./day)
Labor                  S       9.6      9.6      10.4      10.4     11.6     13.6      16       16        16       16
Bullock. pair         16        19       19       21       21       23        27       32       32       32        32
Source: World Bank, Primary Commodity Forecasts, January 1991.



84
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Attachment 1. Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 4. Performance of the Improved Standard Tubewell (IST)
Illustrated by Three Models'/
im                        Unit          Model I    Model2       Model3
Cultivated Command Area (CCA)2/     ha            100         100         100
Pump Discharge:
- Initial                        m3/hour          150         150          150
- After 4 years of operation        "             140         130          120
Hours per day of electrical power  hours           18          14           10
availability (average of 10 mths)
Annual pumping hours in Year 44/   hours         2,800       1,600        1,300
Cropping Intensity:
- Kharif                            %              85          65           50
- Rabi                              %              95          85           75
- Total                             %             180         150          125
Irrigation Intensity:
-Kharif                            %              50          25           20
- Rabi                              %              80          50           40
- Total                             %             130          75           60
Crop Production
(Year 4 = Full development)
Kharif Crops:
Paddy area                          ha             40          15            5
- Yield                          tVha              3.0        2.5          2.5
- Production                        t             120          38           13
Maize area3/                        ha             10          10           15
- Yield                           t/ha             2.0         1.8         1.6
- Production                        t              20          18           24
Rabi Crops:
Wheat Area                          ha             80          50          40
- Yield                            tiba            3.0        2.5          2.0
- Production                       t              240         125           80
1/  All performance data refer to Year 4 after commissioning. These data are considered representative for full
development under the conditions of each model.
21   CCA is assumed to be equal to Irrigable Command Area (ICA).
3/  Maize is taken as proxy for all kharif crops other than paddy. Paddy is proxy for sugarcane.
4/  These are average annual quantities determined from available data over several years.
Source: Field observations and partial evaluations of tubewell and agricultural data by IDTW and ADW.



85
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Attachment 1. Economic and Financial Analysis
Tabie 5. Pre-Project Crop Production in Three Model Areas
kcm                       Unit       Model I        Model2        Mode 3
Reference CCAI/
(=Net irrigable area [NIA]
of the 'with project
situation):
Kharif                          ha           50             25            20
Rabi                            ha           80             50            40
Total                           ha           130            75            60
Kharif Crops
Paddy area:                     ha           30             10             5
-Yield                          t/ha         1.2           1.1            1.0
- Production                    t            36             11              5
Maize area:                     ha           20             10            10
- Yield                        tOma          1.0           0.8            0.6
- Production                    t            20              8             6
Fallow                          ha            -              5             5
Toal area                       ha           50             25            20
Rabi Crops
Wheat area                      ha           50             35            30
- Yield                        tna           1.2           1.1            10
- Production                    t            60             39            30
Fallow                          ha           30             15            10
Toal Area                       ha           80             50            40
Cropping Intensity Within Total
CCA = 100 ha2I
Kharif                          %            57            56             53
Rabi                            %            51            49            47
Total                           %           108           105            100
Cropping Intensity Within the
Fraction of CCA Which is
Irrigated 'With Project'3/
Kharif                          %           100            80             75
Rabi                            %            63            70             75
Total                           %           163           150            150
1/ In order to permit comparison of agricultural performance with and without project, the area sown in the 'without project'
situation can only be equal to or less than the area irrigated in the 'with project' situation (see Table 4).
2/  Derived from Staff Appraisal Report.
3/ It should be noted that intensity is higher than overall because the areas irrigated are commonly the better agricultural soils
with more intense use, even in the 'before project' situation.



INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Attachment 1. Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 6. Production Summary per 100 Ha CCA Tubewell
Crop                  Without Project                      With Project                           Incremental Production(2/)
Model 1  Model 2  Model 3  Weighted    Model I  Model 2  Model 3  Weighted        Year 4    Year I   Year 2    Year 3
Average I 1/)                             Average       (Full    [60%]    [80%]    [90%]
Development)
--------------------- --------------------------------------------------------t-o----------lons------------------ ----------------------
Paddy           36        11        5      14.2         120       38        13      46.9        32.7       20        26        30
Maize           20        8         6       9.8          20       18        24      20.2        10.4        6         8         9
Wheat           60       39        30      40.5         240      125        80     134.5        94.0       56        75        85
(1/) As discussed in the text, Model I is representative of 20% of all conmmissioned new tubewells, Model 2 of 50% and Model 3 of 30%.
(2/) An average four-year build-up of production is assumed, whereby it reaches 60% of full production in Year 1, 80% in Year 2 and 90% in Year 3.



87
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Attachment 1. Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 7. Net Irrigable Area Created by the Project
Status at End of Each Fiscal Year (i.e. 31 March of Each Year)
Unit   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89    89/90   90/91
Number of 150 m3/hr          number         -      143     412     1,299   2,025    2,403    2,928    3,214
capacity ISTs
operational
Total net irrigable area     100 ha         -      143     412     1,299   2,025    2,403      2,928    3,214
(NMA) cleated
Number of 300 m3/hr          number         -        -      16        37      62        67       68       70
capacity ISTs
operadonal
Toal NIA created             100 ha         -        -      32        74      124      134       136     140
Grand Total NIA              100 ha         -      143     444     1,373   2,149    2,537      3,064    3,354
Annual Increments            100 ha         -      143     301       929     776       388      527      290



INDIA
SECOND UITAR PRADESII PUBLIC TUDEWELIS PROJECT
(Credk No. 1332-IN)
Attachment 1. Ecmoneme and Flnancial Analysis
Table S. Production Build-up of Paddy, Maize and Wheat
Unit        8BS        85/86       86/87        87/88       88/89       89/90       90191        91/92       92/93       93/94      94195-
> 20
L PADDY
A. Net Iligable           100 ha         143
Ar Crmaled
B. IncrentaI                tnr      143 x 20    143 x 26    143 x 30   143 x 317       4,676       4,676        4.676       4,676       4.676       4,676       4.676
Pfodcion                           =2,860 1/      =3,718      =4,290      = 4.676
A.                      100 ha      -          301 x 20    301 x 26     301 x 30   301 x 32.7      9.843       9,843       9,843       9.843       9,843        9,843
B.                        wms                   = 6,020     = 7,826       9,030       9,843
A.                       100 ha     -                      929 x 20     929 x 26    929 x 30   929 x 32.7     30.378       30,378      30,378      30,378      30,37S
B.                       kIs                               = 18.580     = 24,154     27,870     = 30,378
co  A.                       100 ha     -                                   776x 20    776 x 26     776 x 30   776 x 32.7      25,375      25,375      25.375      25,375
B.                        mns                                             15,520     20,176       23,280      25,375
A.                       100 ha     -                                               388 x 20    388 x 26     388 x 30   388 x 32.7     12,687      12,687       12,687
B.                        lns                                                         7,760       10.088      11,640       12.687
A.                      lOOha       -                                                -          527 x 20     527x 26     527 x 30   527 x 32.7     17.233      17,233
B.                        bs                                                                      10,540      13,702       15,810      17,233
A.                       100ha            -                  -           -           -           -           290 x 20    290 x 26    290 x 30   290 x 32.7      9,483
B.                         ons                                                                              . 5,800        7,540       8,700       9,483
Toea Paddy                  tons       2,86        9,738      30,696       53,380      70,325      88,805      101,414     106,309     108,892     109,675      109,675
2/
By PIoporton:
IL TOTALMAIZE               tons         910       3,097        9,762      16,977      22,366      28,243       32,254      33,811      34,632      34,881       34,881.
IIL TOTAL WHEAT             tom        8,008      27,993      88,239      153,447     202,157     255,280      291,526     305,598     313,023     315,274      315,274
1/ Compare with Table 6.
2/ This amount equals 1.5% of average annual production of paddy in UlP over the period 1980/81 to 1989/90.



INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Altachuent 1. Ecinc and Fnandal Anaysla
Table 9. Crop Production Cost per Ha (1/) ad per Ton With Projed at Fun Dewelpmet - Econenmc Vale
unit      Quantity      1933/84     19W845       198/6        I86/87       1987JU      193889       193/90       190/91        1m            2010             2005
-   ~-~~~------------Cwrat Rsi-                                                                                     199('91 Rs
Paddy
Feglizr - N              kaJi              50          195          295          260         235          230          355          370          455          390          370          355
Fatiliz V -P              '                25          103          125          125          133         150          135          203          173          13t          ISS          IU3
Femtiiza -K               '                 10          23           31           33          31           33           42           52           57           46           46           46
Secd                       -               45           50           59           50          54           59           90          108          104           63           68           59
Apo-hanicu              Re4ha                           S0           95          110          125         140          150          160          160          160          160          160
Labor                  nmdh                130        1,040        1,248       1,243        1,352        1,352        1,506        1,768       2,080         2,060       2,060        2,05.
Dmft Ani6nl            pair djfl           20          320          380          3S0         420          420          460          540          640          640          640          640
Toal (prha)                                           1,811       2,233        2,206        2,35        2,384       2,7"         3,201        3,669         3,567        3552        3,528
TOal (per Lo)                                          697          359           4"         904          917         1,073        1,231       1,411         1,372        1,3"         1,357
Make
Filizer - N              k411              40          156          236          208          18S        14           2S4          296          364          312          296          284
Fetik  - P                                 40          164          200          200         212          240          296          324          276          300          300          300
Fertilzer - K                              20           46           62           66           62          66           84          104          114           92           92           92
00       Seed                                        20           24          30           26           22          1            28           34          36            36           66           36
Ap    _I^cal            RSha                            80           95          110          125         140          150          160          160          160          160          160
Labor                  nmd/h               65          520          624          624         676          676          754          334        1,040         1,040        1,040        1,040
Deft miimls            pairMu               12         192          228          228         252          252          276          324          384          3U4          3U4          3S4
Toal (pu ha)                                          1,132       1,475        1,462        1,537        1,576        1,872       2,126        2,374         2,324        2,          2,2ff
TOWal per ton)                                         657          819          312          854         876         1,04         1,l13       1,319         1,291        1,2"         1,276
Whet
Fatilza' - N             k4hA              50          195          295          260          235         230          355          370          455          390          370          355
Fai,j - P                                  25          103          125          125          133          150         135          203          173           In         I1            la
Feaiitze-K                                  10          23           31           33           31          33           42           52           57           46           46           46
Seed                                       100         150         10           190          190          160         240          310          260           180         230          190
Agcdh     a             RiJ/a                           60           70           S0           90         100          110          120          120           120         120          120
LAbor                   md/da              90          720          364          364         936          936         1,044        1,224       1,440         1,440        1,440        1,440
Drfta nnal psir d/                         20          320          380          380         420          420          460          540          640          640          640          640
TOal (per ha)                                         1,571       1,945        1,932        2,035        2,029        2,436       2,819        3,145         3,004        3,034        2,9"
Total (per ton)                                        623          773          773          814         312          974         1,128       1,258         1,202        1,214        1,192
(11 Yielddammptoni  paddy 2.6 uh  nuize 1.8 Om, wh  2.5 Ohm



INDIA
SECOND UTrAR PRADESH TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Attacbment 1. Economk and Fumandal Analysis
Table 10. Project Cost by Year 11
198344     198445      1985-86      1986487    1987-88     198849       1989-90        1990-91      TOWal             [%]
~~~~~~--                                 -[Rs mUjo)--_ ______ __ 
ld acquition                    0.02        0.23        0.42        3.76        1.49        3.34        1.61            0.38       11.25         0.4
New tubewells                  102.10      157.11     320.75      429.61      272.13      314.72      361.47           50.47     2,008.36       68.0
Modernizationo(old              1.06        1.29       13.25       18.00       21.80       18.70       10.12            6.28       90.50         3.1
tubeweils
Caumedn of old tuber-              .          -         0.07        8.30       11.43       26.06        7.03            1.61        54.50         1.8
well to dediced feeden
Buildings                        1.22       3.88        2.44        9.82        4.97        2.91        1.34             1.22      27.80          0.9
0
ON           0& M equipment                  7.14       4.29       16.29        1.24        1.51        0.15        0.30              -         30.92         1.1
Moaning md]
evalaon
Reseah and                      0.08        0.03        0.20        2.91        1.03        2.35        2.08            0.04        8.72         0.3
developmet           I
Training, sudies nd  ]
visits
Agriculhual                     0.57        3.25        4.25       19.24       20.70       40.30       32.96            10.00      131.27        4.4
developmt
Admimntion Nd                  45.62       73.55      115.82       27.20       49.05      157.23       92.47           30.00      590.94         20.0
Total UP Proect Costs          157.81     243.63      473.49      520.08      384.11      565.76      509.38           100.00    2.954.26        100
(1/) GOUP Fisa Year.



INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH TUBE:WELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Atacment 1. Economic and Fiancl Analysis
Table 11. Uttr Pradesbi l/) - Cost and Benfit Stream  (Rs milIen)
New       Blldingp(2/j     O hM      M&E, R&D         Agrie.        AdminleL &      Repacement  0 & M Cost  Total Cest  Incrmta   Net Beefits
Tubewels                    Equipment   Training,  Development(2/)  Engineerlngl2l)                                              Beneis
12/)      Studies &
Vsits(V)
1983/84        125.23         14.23         8.31         0.09          0.66            53.29                          9.03       210.9S               -   1210.98)
1984/S5        194.43         4.56          5.03         0.03          3.31            36.33                  -      28.54       322.73        21.20       1301.581
1985/86        362.85         2.63          17.48        0.21          4.32           124.27                  -      30.64       592.40        67.30       1525.101
1986/87        432.06         9.28         116.89        2.76         13.13            25.70                         111.72      715.99        172.00      1543.991
1987/8S        251.22         4.33          1.31         0.39         18.03            42.73                  -      120.94      439.45        206.40      1233.05)
1983/89        289.23         2.52          0.12         2.02         34.71           135.48                         144.4S      608.56        457.40      1151.161
1989/90        319.95         1.12          024          1.74         23.00            77.33                  -      153.51      531.39        740.10       153.21
1990/91        40.76          0.93                -      0.03          7.60            22.30                  -      139.52      211.64        529.80       313.16
1991/92              -                -           -            -              -                  -                   139.52      139.52        655.30       516.23
,_     1992/93              -                      -            -             -                         -            -      139.52       139.52       134.00        44.48
a       1993/94                                                                                          -      6.83         13952        146.40       138.60        42.20
1994/95              -                -           -            -              -                 -      14.40         13952       153.92        194.20       40.28
1995/96              -                                                                                  4-  -  -  -  4.56  139.52  134.08      196.70        12.62
1996197              -                      -           -                    -                  -      35.61         139.52      175.20        193.20        13.00
1997/9               -                -           -            -             -                  -      18.64         139.52      158.16        35130        193.14
1993/99                                                                                                25.23         13952       164.80        351.30       136.50
1999/2000            -                            -            -             -                  -      13.90         139.52      153.42        351.30       197.88
2000/01                               -           -            -             -                   -             -     139.52      139.52        351.30       211.73
2001/02                       -                   -            -             -                  -              -     13952       13952         359.40       219.83
2MW3                 -                -           -            -             -                  -                    13952       13952         202.30       63.23
Zceak lRa,te  Retun: 1%.
(1/) Excluding moudezaion of old tubewells ndd 'coecting old tubewells to dedicaed feeders' wiich epresat 5% of UP proied costs (Table 10).
(2I) Adjusded, Le. cosu reduced by 5%, to allow for exdusion of components mentioned in (1/).



INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit No. 1332-IN)
Attachment 1. Economc and Financial Analysis
Table 12. Cost and Benefit Streams for Representative Models
------Model 1          ----  -     ----- Model 2-------------- --------------Model 3-------------
Whole Project   Total Costs  Incremental  Net Benefits   Total Costs   wrrnmental  Net Benefits   Total Costs  Increnental  Net Bencfits
Total Costs                Benefits                              Benefits                             Benefits
1983/84          210.98          42.20        -          [42.20]     105.49        -          [105.49]      63.29        -        [63.29]
1984/85          322.78          64.56       8.00        [5656]      161.39        9.60       [151.79]      96.83       3.20      [93.63]
1985/86          592.40         118.48       9.70       [108.781     296.20       30.20       [266.00]     177.72       9.90     [167.821
1986/87          715.99         143.20       67.10       [76.101     358.00       76.80       [281.201     214.80       29.50    1185.301
1987/88          439.45          87.89       83.10        [4.79]     219.73       93.30       [126.43]     131.84       31.20    [100.641
1988/89          608.56         121.71      179.00        57.29      304.28      269.40        [34.88]     182.57       69.90    [175581
1989/90          581.89         116.38      292.20        175.82     290.95      331.50         40.55      17457       113.60     [60.97]
1990/91          211.64          42.33      209.60        167.27     105.82      238.60        132.78       63.49       71.10       7.61
1991/92          139.52          27.90      178.90        151.00      69.76      203.60        133.84       41.86       60.60       18.74
c'.       1992/93           135.52         27.10      146.40        119.30       67.76      166.60         98.84      40.66       51.20       10.54
8        1993/94           146.40         29.28      114.60         85.32       73.20      129.80         56.60      43.92       41.20      [2.72]
1994/95          153.92          30.78       90.30        59.52       76.96       89.10         12.14       46.18       30.70     [15.48]
1995/96          184.08          36.82       90.30        53.48       92.04       89.10         [2.94]      55.22       30.70     [2452]
1996/97          175.20          35.04      90.30         55.26       87.60       89.10          1.50       52.56       30.70     [21.86]
1997/98          158.16          31.63      155.60        123.97      79.08      160.30         81.22       47.45       55.70       8.25
1998/99          164.80          32.96      155.60        122.64      82.40      160.30         77.90       49.44       55.70       6.26
1999/2000        153.42          30.68      155.60        124.92      76.71      160.30         83.59       46.03       55.70       9.67
2000/01          139.52          27.90      155.60        127.70      69.76      160.30         90.54       41.86       55.70       13.84
2001/02          139.52          27.90      155.60        127.70      69.76      160.30         90.54       41.86       55.70       13.84
2002V03          139.52          27.90       90.40  -      62.50      69.76       93.00         23.24       41.86       32.00        9.86
ERR: 23%                             ERR: negative                         ERR-negative
Note: Share in total of commissioned new tubewels - Model 1 = 20%; Model 2 = 50%; Model 3 = 30%.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 1654ORi
H/MACHAL PRADESH
'                                    '>                            C HIN A
C- i       UTTAR KASHI                                              C       -IN
r~ -\w  --                                                                                                     IN       I
,  r    )       t    CHAMOLI                                                                           INDIA
HARYANA~~2%<~  TEHRI GARHWALPR                                                                                                       DES
HARYANA                  TER AHWx &piwl R,UTTAR  PRADESH  PUBLIC
fo-                  ^                  4tt ? op              k PITHORAGARH    TUBEWELLS U PROJECT
GARHWAL                                                                                     PROJECT   DISTRICTS                                30'
./;,. .) 9 \  p>1  YJ   MAIN PROJECT DISTH CTS
K,                                          v                                                   8       zg Aln>.fa O,  {  OISTRICT hEADDUARTERS
*.  oT   STATE CAP TA,
NAT ONA.L 1 hAS
g   MEERUT    4        >^        s   R  NAINITAL       2BROAD CAUGF RA I ECARDS
DE      GAZtA                                               -J`                                                                           D1    RCI ll E   R S1
o"^ra"o  _t  :   v        L                                                       _      _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT  Rl)UNDAR ES
-=   /  P  x  STATE OR UNION TERITORYD OUNDARIES
INTERNAT )NA, BOLNDA- tS
HARYANA<
28'HUR                                                                         K ''XEi   "z
(AA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fiaff- ,au<                                                   -             t                 t     k   AZN I  ,  /
ATHU.          ALGAAETA                                                                             AHRAICHA PRADESH  ' " 7-   AZA
GONDA
MAHY   o''PRADESHAEA    RDEHs   
2   ~0o                                     JALAPU                                                         SULTANPU
24  This moap ha. bean pI'eparRd by The WBrld Banki saf RaBl *cusinely for                                                         <
th Bannnvieutt of read erg and,.1 for th. mnronl use of The Worid                                                              (-           K                                  O2r
Bonk Group. rho dlenuminoijons usdl anc' Eh. boundaries shown on th,s      0        ES S0      C       12C                       >  ___  S
nmop do not im,ply, BY the port Bf The Worcld Bar tO rBup, ony judgln.n t         BI,OBBE r EnS
on th. legal REBIBs of any  Trritry or any .odorn.n,ent or acueptanBe of
sBBh boundaries
AUGUST 1992



