Document of
The World Bank
FiLE CoRY
FOR OFFICIAL USiE ONLY                               . C
Report No. P-3458-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPM4ENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 91.6 MILLION (]EQUIVALENT TO US$101 MILLION)
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
February 15, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ased by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 7, 1983)
US$1            =  Rs 9.971041
Rs 1            =  US$0.100290
Rs 1 million   =  US$100,290
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 = Rs 9.5, which represents the average exchange
rate projected over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms used in this Report
ARDC     -      Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOI      -      Government of India
GOUP     -      Government of Uttar Pradesh
O&M      -      Operations and Maintenance
PVC      -      Polyvinylchloride
UPSEB    -      Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                        India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiaries:                   State of Uttar Pradesh
Government of India and various States of India
Amount:                          SDR 91.6 million (US$101 million equivalent).
Terms:                           Standard.
Re-Lending Terms:                From GOI to lJttar Pradesh and other States
as part of Central assistance to States for
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable a: the time. GOI would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:             The project would seek to raise agricultural
production aad farm income in the State of
Uttar Pradesl through the construction and
upgrading of public tubewell irrigation
systems. It would support: (i) the
construction of 2,200 new tubewell systems,
built to an improved design tested under the
Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project
(Credit 1004-IN); (ii) the upgrading of
750 existing tubewell irrigation systems built
to traditional design standards;
(iii) agricultural support services to farmers
in command areas of project wells; (iv) a
research and development program to test
further potential advances in tubewell
technology; (v) training of irrigation and
agriculture staff; and (vi) project monitoring
and evaluation. The Credit would also provide
funds for the preparation of future irrigation
projects in India. The chief potential risks
for the pro;ject relate to the adequacy of
rural power supply and the prospects for full
realization of the agricultural potential of
project areas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



( ii)
Estimated Cost: 1/
(US$ Millions)
Item                                      Local            Foreign           Total
Land Acquisition                            1.3               -                 1.3
New Tubewell Systems                      103.0              7.3              110.3
Upgrading of Existing Systems               5.9              0.4                6.3
Research and Development                    0.8              0.1                0.9
Agricultural Development                    6.1               -                 6.1
Traininrg                                   0.1              0.1                0.2
Monitoring and Evaluation                   0.1               -                 0.1
O&M Equipment                               0.4              0.1                0.5
Buildings (Irrigation Department)           3.4               -                 3.4
Administration and Engineering              7.1              _                  7.1
Base Cost                              128.2             8.0              136.2
Physical Contingencies                      6.3              0.4                6.7
Price Contingencies                        37.0              2.3               39.3
Total Cost of Uttar
Pradesh Project                    171.5             10.7              182.2
Preparation of Future Irrigation
Projects                                 9.4              0.6               10.0
Total Financing Requirement            180.9            11.3              192.2
(US$ Millions)
Financing Plan:                           Local            Foreign           Total
IDA                                     89.7            11.3              101.0
GOUP/GOI                                91.2              _                91.2
Total                                  180.9            11.3              192.2
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
FY84         FY85         FY86          FY87
Annual                27.0         30.0          27.0         17.0
Cumulative            27.0         57.0          84.0        101.0
Rate of Return:           About 30%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 4167-IN, dated February 8, 1983.
1/ Net of taxes and duties, with the exception of a few items on which
taxes and duties are insignificant.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT IN AN AMOUNT
OF SDR 91.6 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US*101 MILLION) TO INDIA
FOR THE SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to India of SDR 91.6 million (US$101 million equivalent) on stand-
ard IDA terms to help finance the construction or upgrading of about 3,000
public tubewells for irrigation in the State of Uttar Pradesh, as well as the
preparation of future irrigation projects in India. Of the proceeds of the
Credit, US$91 million equivalent would be channelled to the Government of Uttar
Pradesh in accordance with the Government of India's standard terms and- arran-
gements for financing State development projects. In addition, a portion of
the US$10 million equivalent provided for irrigation project preparation would
be channelled to State Governments on the same terms. The exchange risk would
be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECCONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are att:ached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India- is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240. Economic growth
has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.6% per annum over the past
30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which employs more than
two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to
provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in agricultural activities,
especially those with little or no land. Consequently the latter have only an
insecure grasp on the means of existence. Growth of value-added in agricul-
ture -- 2.3% per annum over the past 30 yea:rs -- has been slower than growth of
industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual
decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor cost measured in 1970/71
prices) from 60% to about 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 24%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the South Bassein Gas Development Project
(No. P-3457-IN), dated February 2, 1983.



-2-
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.  In the
face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able to increase
agricultural output faster than total population while eliminating persistent
dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross domestic investment rose from 12.5%
of GDP :o 26.2%. Foreign savings (balance of payments deficit on current
account) have never financed a major portion of domestic investment: a peak of
about 20% was reached during the early 1960s; for a few years in the late
1970s, surpluses arose, and at the present time, foreign savings are about 10%
of investment. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP
and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of
GDP, ancl was less than 1% at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than the volume growth of imports over the same period. In the early to
mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of India's exports grew on average about 7.6% per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is pos-
sible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East,
contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more
effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of foodgrain output,
which culminated in a record 132 million tons of foodgrain production in
1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP, agricultural and industrial
value-added, substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 3). In 1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst
drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices
and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a
decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade deficit. Severe inflation-
ary pressures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. The
impact of these setbacks is still being felt in the Indian economy, par-
ticularly in the balance of payments, and adjustments will be needed for some
years to come. However, the short-term recovery process is almost completed
and the economy has regained its growth momentum.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP growing
by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was particularly
robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than
15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with judicious use of Government
buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also helped moderate price rises.
Inflation remained a serious problem with the annual average wholesale price
index rising 18%, although the second half of the year provided clear evidence
of a deceleration in inflation.



-3-
8.      1981/82 was a year of solid growth after the rebound in 1980/81 and
GDP grew by 5.5%. While foodgrain production rose only modestly over its
1980/81 level, other crops including oilseeds and sugarcane performed well and
total agricultural output grew by 4%. The availability of power, coal and rail
transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording
growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively. As constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities continued to ease, industrial
output responded with an 8% increase. The downward trend in inflation con-
tinued. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on an average annual basis, while
the increase on a March 1981 to March 1982 basis was less than 2%, showing a
continued deceleration. Easier supply conditions, combined with a more
restrictive monetary policy, contributed to the sharp decline in the rate of
inflation.
9.      The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also provided
continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments and
appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached between 132
and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the previous record.
Irrigated area expanded by 2.5 million hectares, while fertilizer consumption
improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%, despite substantial price
increases. Recent performance and probable future trends suggest that on
average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand. However, the balance remains
delicate with some imports likely to be required from time to time. Indeed,
the effects of the severe 1979/80 drought were still being felt in 1981/82 when
2.25 million tons of wheat were imported to rebuild depleted stocks. Neverthe-
less, the relatively low import requirement, the ability of the Government to
delay imports for as long as two years after the production shortfall, and the
decline in foodgrain prices in real terms demonstrate the flexibility and
resilience provided by the public foodgrain system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were major
contributors to industrial stagnation and tae onset of high inflation in
1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of declining capacity
utilization in important, interrelated sectars such as power, coal, and rail
transport. A major cause of the improved economic climate over the last two
years has been a much improved level of output in these sectors, due mainly to
greater efficiency and utilization of installed capacity. Expansion of coal
output by about 10 million tons for the second successive year and of rail
freight traffic to a record level were particularly noteworthy features of the
1981/82 economic performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy production
which contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have also been
reduced. However, even though there remains large scope for improving
efficiency, further improvements in capacity utilization will become increas-
ingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet increasing
demand.
II.     Despite a brief phase in the late 1970s, when savings rates exceeded
investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually increased, recent
experience shows that the needs of the Indian economy continue to outstrip the
availability of resources, both internal and external. Investment exceeds



-4-
domestic savings. The latter, at nearly 25% of GDP, are already high and
further increases, particularly from the household sector, will be increasingly
difficult to obtain. However, over the last two years, the Government has
taken a number of measures to generate higher savings in the public sector.
Principal among these were price and tax increases, and subsidy reductions, on
a range of corrmodities produced mainly in the public sector.
12.      The shortage of resources is even more apparent in the foreign sector.
Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the cost of India's POL imports rose
sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated. Coupled with domestic supply
shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these factors caused India's
current account deficit to rise from only 0.6% of GDP in 1979/80 to 2% of GDP
in 1980/81. In 1981/82, the current account deficit rose to US$4.3 billion,
representing 2.7% of GDP. Unfavorable movements in export prices and the terms
of trade threatened a worse outcome. However, the much improved performance of
basic import-substituting industries and a resumption of healthy export volume
growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance this gap in the face of inadequate
concessional aid flows, the Government drew down a record US$2.36 billion in
foreign exchange reserves, withdrew almost US$700 million under the recently
negotiated IMF Extended Fund Facility, and turned increasingly to other
non-concessional sources of finance. In 1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new
government guaranteed commitments for commercial borrowing totalling over
US$1.3 billion were contracted for major projects.
13.      The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level of growth. In
particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India can
produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports of these items, to moderate the
rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and slower demand
growth, and to further reduce the constraints in transportation and other
infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range of
activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has maintained and
extended the more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent
improvements in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters,
and the adoption of several new export and industrial policy measures have
improved ithe prospects for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is exten-
sive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need for addi-
tional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.
India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institutional



-5-
infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural
resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous
ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access
to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/8'i), which is now about halfway
completed. The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the
growth of exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the
removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been
encouraging, although the likelihood of con:inued bottlenecks in key sectors
such as power and transport is growing. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan
targets will require an acceleration of domestic savings rates. The efforts of
the Central Government to raise resources have so far been impressive and are
likely to be broadly sufficient to meet the financing requirements of the
Central Government's share in plan investment, if inflation can be kept in
check. However, a significant shortfall in savings is likely to occur in some
states unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain and raise further the already high level of
private savings. Recent increases in interest rates and tax concessions on
time deposits should stimulate such savings. The further dampening of infla-
tionary expectations, the prospects for which look bright, will be an important
part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. Thus far, however, output growth has not matched the
size of India's investment programs. Much of this phenomenon relates to
India's stage of development, in which a large and growing proportion of
investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services,
such as power, transport and irrigation, have inherently high capital output
ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the sectoral capital output
ratios has been due to a deterioration in efficiency and is avoidable through
better management. Bottlenecks in these basic sectors clearly can prejudice
growth in other sectors where large investments have been made. As demon-
strated in the last two years, performance in the basic service sectors can be
improved through better planning and management, thus leading to higher produc-
tivity and capacity utilization, throughout the economy. At the same time,
programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable
commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the grounds of
comparative advantage. For sectors such as power and transportation, expansion
of planned capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of the
economy will be vital to overall medium- arLd long-term prospects. At present
rates of development, however, an adequate balance between supply and demand in
these sectors will be difficult to sustain. Performance in the power sector to
date suggests that India's power deficit will continue into the early 1990s,
although more rapid project implementation and efficiency could narrow the size
of the gap. For railways, real investment levels may be inadequate to meet
demand projections and will need to be mon:Ltored closely and adjusted upward
as necessary if serious bottlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.



-6-
17.     UJnder the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by successive price increases
for petroleum products. On the production side, scheduled expansion is
expected to raise domestic production of crude from the current 46% to about
64% of demand by 1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of exploratory activity,
combined with the possibilities for accelerated offtake from known fields offer
much encouragement for India's longer term energy prospects.
18.     I'he continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has been
marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and non-concessional
borrowing, to finance the deficit. Use of reserves reached a record level in
1981/82, leaving less than four months of import coverage by the end of the
year. At the same time, India also made use of the IMF Extended Fund Facility.
Entering this period with a favorable debt service profile, India has so far
also been able to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over, of
course, relatively high underlying rates) and in the last two years commercial
borrowing has been stepped up. These sources will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high growth. In the
longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving these
needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further investment,
and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting industry to
realign the balance of payments. In the short-term, significant external
borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be
necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of such a growth
strategy. However, an important element in providing India with the capacity
to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assistance. Although
India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from
the very low levels of the past, there are limits to India's creditworthiness
in world markets. Maintaining an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the
structure of the Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment as
intended by the Government requires foreign resources in addition to the level
of commercial borrowing available to India. Indeed, along with increasing
exports, higher levels of investment to support an adequate rate of growth is a
key eleme:at in maintaining India's recently improved creditworthiness. India
is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous investment
requiremenlts for human development and basic infrastructure.  The fact that
India has been able to maintain over the past seven years a rate of growth
above the long term trend, despite the severe setbacks of 1979/80, lends sub-
stance to the hope that a more open trade policy and concerted efforts to



-7-
remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate
mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can sustain a rate of growth
closer to 5.0% per annum than the long run t:rend of 3.6% per annum. Combined
with a reduction in the rate of population increase to below 2.0% per annum, a
5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per
capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make
a significant difference to the prospects oi- easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and Severe poverty underline the need
for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if possible.
The 1981 Census placed India's population al 683.4 million, or about 12 million
higher than official projections. The fact that there was no decline in
inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is
a cause for concern. While further analysis may suggest this rate of growth to
be slightly overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the
population growth rate has not materialized. Until full details of the Census
are released, firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not pos-
sible. However, the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to
strengthen the family planning program in a broad range of activities and
services. These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan which aims
at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group
from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, in
non-farm rural employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas.
These developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies
and the strengthening of basic services and. infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981 resulting from India's
sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such developments.
There is also a role for direct Government action in faster implementation of
land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty through land
redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the supply of credit
available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally in broadening the
provision of those services which enhance the human capital of the poor and
improve living standards. Many of the latl:er are elements of the Minimum Needs
Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning for the past
decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of primary educa-
tion, the extension of rural health facili:ies and the provision of secure
village water supplies. Operations such as the community health volunteer
program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging evidence
that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 68 loans and 153 development
credits to India totalling US$4,095 million and US$10,956 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,280 million has been
repaid, and US$5,291 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1982.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through Septem-
ber 30, 1982 totalled US$287 million, representing an increase of about 76
percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement
of disbursements as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongo-
ing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 28 commitments in India totalling US$219.6
million, of which US$26.4 million has been repaid, US$55.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$130.1 million, US$121.9 million
represents loans and US$8.2 million equity. A summary statement of IFC opera-
tions as of September 30, 1982, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural produc-
tivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural inputs to
farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed projects.
Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at helping to
meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports,
and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth
in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways
and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily
in the private sector, through its support of development finance institutions.
Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy the essential
needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition
and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply
and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil



-9-
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic ccmmodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even greater
deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by augmenting
domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past, Bank Group
assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Conse-
quently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-l?riority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1981/82 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1982, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$2,922 million, of which
US$1,308 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,614 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and 52%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt
was about US$17.4 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$6.6 billion
or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and IBRD's US!J1.0 billion). In 1981/82, about
16.0% of India's total debt service paymencs were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN UTTAR PRADESH
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
29.     The State of Uttar Pradesh covers an area of 298,000 km2 in north-
eastern India and has a population (1981) of approximately 110 million, 16%
of the total population of India. Supported by a primarily agrarian economy,
with agriculture contributing 56% of the State's income and employing 78% of
the work force, Uttar Pradesh had a per capita income in 1979/80 of Rs 981
(approximately US$120), considerably below the national average of Rs 1,267.
Taking a somewhat longer perspective, average per capita income in Uttar
Pradesh during the period 1970/71-1976/77 was Rs 648, relative to a national
average of Rs 856, placing Uttar Pradesh among the poorest of India's States,
ranking above only Orissa and Bihar in terms of per capita income. Between
1970/71 and 1979/80, the State's real per capita income declined by an
average of 1.1% per annum, relative to a 1.6% annual increase in real per
capita income for the nation as a whole.
30.     By most traditional indicators, Uttar Pradesh is one of the least
advanced States in India. The literacy rate, at 27.4%, is significantly
below the national average of 36%. The infant mortality rate, at 128/1000
live births, is the highest among the sixteen major States and the average
life expectancy (43 years in 1971) one of the lowest in the country.
Similarly, per capita government expenditure on health in Uttar Pradesh is
among the lowest in India, as is the number of doctors and hospital beds per
1,000 population. A large State with a population which exceeds that of most
developing countries, Uttar Pradesh clearly faces serious development
problems.
The Agricultural Sector in Uttar Pradesh
31.     The State divides naturally into three physical zones:  the
Himalayas, the Gangetic Plain and the Central Indian Plateau. The Himalayan
region, in the north, is of rugged topography, relatively sparsely populated
and largely unsuitable for agriculture. The Gangetic Plain crosses the State
from north to southeast and is the most heavily populated and cultivated area
of Uttar Pradesh. The southern edge of the State rises onto the Central
Indian Plateau, only a portion of which is suitable for cultivation.
32.     About 17 million ha of land are under cultivation in Uttar Pradesh,
most of this in the Gangetic Plain. Net cultivated area has remained stag-
nant in the State since 1960/61, and there is little scope for increasing it
in the future. The average farm size in the State is 1.2 ha, although more
than two-thirds of all farm holdings are under one hectare in area, and half
of all holdings are less than 0.5 ha. Farm holdings are particularly small
in the eastern region, where rainfall is relatively high and population
dense, with larger holdings prevalent in the Himalayan area and the Central
Indian Plateau, where the terrain is rough and the soil infertile. The
climate and soils in the State are suitable for growing paddy, maize, bajra,
and sorghum in the kharif (summer, rainy) season and wheat and barley in the
rabi (winter, dry) season. Approximately 67% of the State's cropped area is



-1 1-
planted to cereal crops, 11% to pulses, and 22% to non-foodgrain crops,
principally oilseeds and sugarcane.
33.     Performance in the agricultural sector in Uttar Pradesh in the years
since Independence (1948) has been mixed at best. Production of foodgrains
grew at an average annual rate of approximately 2% between 1950/51 and
1977/78, barely keeping pace with population growth. Despite this discourag-
ing performance in overall foodgrain production, production trends for cer-
tain individual crops have been somewhat more encouraging.  Increases in
cropped area and yields in the 1950s led to rates of growth for rice and
wheat production of 5.2% and 4.8% per annum, respectively.  While rice
production stagnated in the 1960s, wheat production grew at a rate of 9.9%
per annum and maize production at a rate oi- 9.7% per annum, due largely to
the introduction of improved varieties and the accelerated development of
private tubewells during this period. Although the growth in wheat produc-
tion slowed to 4.1% per annum in the 1970s, rice production picked up again,
growing at an annual rate of 4.7% between :971/72 and 1977/78.  Unfor-
tunately, however, the rising trends in rice and wheat production have been
to a large extent offset by declining production in other major cereal crops,
which together with pulses account for about 60% of total foodgrain
production.
Irrigation in Uttar Pradesh
34.     Surface Water Resources and Utiliz-ation.  Uttar Pradesh lies within
the catchment areas of four major tributaries of the Ganges River system.
The rivers within the Gangetic Plain are fed by a combination of run-off from
snow-melt in the Himalayas, monsoon run-off, and groundwater drainage, ensur-
ing perennial flow in the main river courses, although not in all
tributaries. Although no thorough survey has been undertaken, it is
estimated that the total amount of surface water available in the Ganges
basin is approximately 510,000 Mm per annum. Approximately 70% of the flow
passes through Uttar Pradesh.
35.     Surface water irrigation in Uttar Pradesh is provided largely through
seven major canal systems fed by water diverted from tributaries of the
Ganges. Together these systems serve more than four-fifths of the total area
irrigated by surface water. They are supplemented by numerous minor canal
systems, tanks, and pump lift irrigation from rivers and lakes. In 1977/78,
the gross surface irrigation capacity in the State stood at 6.2 million ha,
50% of the total surface irrigation potential of 12.4 million ha.
36.     Groundwater Resources and Utilization.  The Gangetic Plan is under-
lain by a highly productive aquifer systenL formed of alluvial deposits. The
State Groundwater Directorate in Uttar Pradesh has conservatively estimated
the net recoverable groundwater resources available to the State at
58,000 Mm  in the average year.  Total groun3dwater extraction through public
and private wells was estimated at 23,000 Mm in 1980/81, or about 40% of net
recoverable groundwater resources.
37.     In 1979/80, groundwater irrigation served 5.7 million ha in the
State. Eighty-four percent of this area was served by tubewells (public and
private) and the remaining 16% by private dugwells. Much of the groundwater



-12-
in the State has been privately developed. At present, there are about
1.2 million private tubewells in the State, serving 84% of the area irrigated
by tubewells, and about 18,000 public tubewells, serving the remaining 16%
of tube!well-irrigated cropland. Private dugwell and tubewell development,
then, accounts for over 86% of the area currently irrigated by groundwater in
Uttar Pradesh.
38.     Trends in Irrigation Development.  Between 1950/51 and the mid-1960s,
surface and groundwater development contributed equally to the expansion of
irrigated area in Uttar Pradesh. However, since 1965/66 groundwater develop-
ment, the most quickly exploitable and assured source of irrigation and that
which is within the capacity of private as well as public investors, has
accounted for virtually all of the increase in net irrigated area in the
State. Thus, in 1979/80, about 64% of the total net irrigated area was
supplied by groundwater, as against 31% provided with surface irrigation.
The remaining 5% was irrigated with water supplied from storage tanks or pump
lift schemes of varying scales.
39.     Despite the abundant overall water resources available in Uttar
Pradesh and the considerable proportion of those resources as yet unex-
ploited, only about 50% of the total net cropped area in the State is under
irrigation. In view of the generally poor performance of agriculture in the
State over the past thirty years, the importance of agricultural growth to
the economy of this largely agricultural State, and the potential for sub-
stantially increased productivity through irrigation, the State Government
has focussed considerable attention in recent Five-Year Plans on the impor-
tance of accelerating the development of irrigation. The Government has
placed particular emphasis on public and private development of groundwater
resources. Expanded rural credit programs and technical assistance are aimed
at encouraging the development of approximately 100,000 private tubewells per
annum, while the Government's own investment program provides for the con-
struction of 1,000-1,500 new public tubewells each year. At the same time,
plans are underway for the expansion and modernization of existing surface
irrigation schemes in the State.
40.     Bank Group Lending for Irrigation in Uttar Pradesh.  Uttar Pradesh
has benefitted from a number of Bank Group-assisted projects in the popula-
tion, water supply, power and agricultural sectors. Of these, the most
relevant to the proposed credit are the rural electrification and thermal
power projects (Credits 572-IN, 911-IN, and Loan 2165-IN for the First,
Second and Third Rural Electrification Projects, and Credits 685-IN and
1027-IN for the First and Second Singrauli Thermal Power Projects), which are
designed to augment the electric power supply and distribution network in
Uttar Pradesh (among other States) and will therefore increase the State's
capacity to provide power for irrigation pumps; the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation (ARDC) Projects (Credits 540-IN, 715-IN, 947-IN,
and Loan 2186-IN/Credit 1269-IN for the First, Second, Third and Fourth ARDC
Projects), which provide credit for private tubewell development; and the
Uttar Pradesh Tubewell Irrigation and Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells
Projects, which are discussed below.
41.     The first Uttar Pradesh Tubewell Irrigation Project (Credit 8-IN,
US$6 million, approved September 6, 1961) financed the construction of



-13-
800 public tubewells between September 1961 and March 1964. While implemen-
tation of the well construction program was satisfactory, a project review
mission fielded in early 1966, which examined wells constructed under the
project as well as wells constructed by the Government outside of the
project, found a number of problems in tubewell operation in Uttar Pradesh,
which caused the agricultural and economic benefits realized to fall short of
potential. Chief among the operational problems were the following.
(a) Brick-lined and earthen channels for conveyance of water from
the tubewells to the farmers' fields were incomplete and poorly constructed,
resulting in inequitable distribution and excessive water losses. In par-
ticular, farmers were expected to construct channels of considerable length
from the main distribution system to their fields themselves, without ade-
quate design assistance.
(b) The average command area of public tubewells (approximately
150-200 ha) was too large, with respect to the capacity of the wells, to
permit intensive agriculture.
(c) Procedures for water allocaticn were weakly enforced, which led
to inequity and unreliability in the supply of water to farmers.
(d) Systems for operation and maintenance of the wells were inade-
quate, leading to frequent breakdowns, delayed repairs, delays in start-up of
wells after power interruptions and interruptions of service due to absence
of the well operators.
In addition, over the last decade inadequate power supply in certain zones,
combined with unscheduled short power outages and voltage drops (which
damaged pumps and/or necessitated frequent manual restart), has reduced
running hours for many tubewells far below potential.
42.     The combined effect of these deficiencies has been to reduce the
water supplied from each well substantially and to render that water supply
highly unreliable, thus inhibiting most farmers from adopting the more
productive, intensive cultivation practices which have been utilized
profitably in areas where water supply is adequate and reliable. An
indicator of the poor performance of public tubewells in Uttar Pradesh is the
fact that, between 1966 and 1980, the average annual hours of utilization per
public tubewell declined from 3,432 hours 1lo 1,010 hours, while the average
irrigated area per well fell from 150 ha to 46 ha. Thus, although the number
of public tubewells increased from 8,385 to 16,862 during the period, the
total area irrigated by public tubewells d:ropped from 1.28 million ha to
0.77 million ha, a fall of 40%.
43.     The Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project (Credit 1004-IN for
US$18 million, approved April 15, 1980) was designed to demonstrate and
evaluate the merits of a number of technical and operational improvements to
the design of traditional public tubewell irrigation systems in Uttar
Pradesh -- improvements aimed specifically at addressing the shortcomings
discussed in paragraph 41 above. The project, expected to be completed about
April 1983, supports the construction of about 500 public tubewells of the



-14-
improved design in Uttar Pradesh. The principal design improvements intro-
duced in project-financed tubewells are summarized below.
(a)  Command areas for wells with a discharge of 150 m3/h (the dis-
charge of most existing public tubewells in Uttar Pradesh) have been reduced
to 75-100 ha, as against a pre-project average of 150-200 ha, to permit a
change from the use of irrigation as a simple protection against drought to
the use of irrigation for more intensive agricuf ture. Wells designed for
increased discharge levels (i.e., 225 and 300 m /h) serve proportionately
larger command areas.
(b) Pumps are automated to obviate the necessity for a pump operator
to be present to start the pump or re-start it after power interruptions.
Pumps are also fitted with protective devices to prevent damage to the motors
due to voltage fluctuations or power cuts and with electronic meters to
permit continual monitoring of pump operation.
(c) Wells are fitted with distribution chambers or elevated tanks
which permit automatic starting and stopping of the pumps in response to the
level of: water in the chamber or tank and, in turn, the off-take of water
from the distribution system.  This prevents spillage at times when the
distribution system operates at less than the full discharge of the well,
and means that the tubewell is effectively operated by the individual farmers
served by the tubewell system.
(d) Finally, water is conveyed from the well to outlets serving
about 5 ha each through underground pipes, in order to prevent the excessive
water loss occurring in traditional tubewell systems. This feature also
eliminates the delay in tubewell construction which typically occurs due to
disputes over right-of-way for distribution channels.  Individual farmers'
plots are no more than 150 m from outlets of the piped system and are con-
nected to these outlets by properly designed earthen channels constructed
under the project.
In addition to testing these technical innovations, the project design incor-
porated improved water allocation and well operation and maintenance proce-
dures and a program of agricultural support to beneficiary farmers.
44.     As of November 30, 1982, about 380 project wells were operational and
sufficient data had been collected and evaluated to confirm that the improved
wells can be constructed on a wide scale at acceptable cost and can provide
timely, reliable and equitable water delivery to all farmers in the command
area. As a result of the experience gained through this pilot project, the
State Government and IDA feel a large-scale program of construction of
improved wells can be supported with acceptable risk. In addition to demon-
strating the efficacy of the new technology, the project served to highlight
a number of areas in which improvement was necessary. The principal lessons
learned from the project, which have been taken into account in designing the
proposed follow-up project, were:
(a) that the potential benefits of the new wells are severely eroded
if reliable power supply cannot be ensured;



-15-
(b) that management of the public tubewell development program in
the State could be further improved, particularly with respect to planning,
and operation and maintenance of tubewell systems and provision of an ade-
quate agricultural development service in command areas of completed
tubewells; and
(c) that, given the improved qualiLty of the irrigation service
provided by the new wells, the Government needed to review its system of cost
recovery in the groundwater sector with an eye to ensuring that charges
reflect both the quality (e.g., timeliness and reliability) of the service
provided as well as the quantity of water delivered.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.     The proposed project was appraised by missions which visited India
in April/May and September 1982. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report,
Second Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project" (No. 4167-IN, dated
February 8, 1983) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1983. The Government of
India and the Government of Uttar Pradesh were represented by a delegation
coordinated by Mr. S.C. Jain, Director, Department of Economic Affairs,
Government of India.
Project Description
46.     The project would seek to raise agricultural production and farm
income in Uttar Pradesh through the construction and upgrading of public
tubewell irrigation systems. It would support the construction and initial
operation and maintenance of approximately 2,200 wells of the improved design
tested under the Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project, over a four-year
period (1983/84-1986/87), throughout the State. In addition, approximately
750 existing tubewells built to traditiona.l design standards would be
upgraded under the project, in order to test the most cost-effective means of
modernizing the 18,000 existing public tubewells in the State. The project
would also include a research and developnment program to test further poten-
tial advancements in public tubewell technology, an agricultural support
program for farmers in the command areas of improved public tubewells, a
program of monitoring and evaluation of project-financed activities, and
training of staff of the Irrigation and Agriculture Departments as required
to enable them to effectively carry out their duties under the project. The
project would finance the acquisition of vehicles and equipment required for
proper operation and maintenance of project wells and construction of build-
ings required for the well construction and maintenance and training
programs. Finally, the project would provide funds, to be administered by
the Government of India, for preparation of future irrigation projects in
India for possible Bank Group financing.
47.     New Tubewell System Construction.  Tubewell systems constructed under
the project would incorporate the design features described in paragraph 43
above. Project-financed public tubewell systems would be constructed,



-16-
operated, and maintained in accordance with planning and design, construction
and operation and maintenance criteria and standards established and applied
in consultation with IDA (Section 2.02, Project Agreement). A typical
tubewell system would consist of a water point with pump house, a distribu-
tion chamber or elevated tank to enable water delivery to be automated and
controlled by the farmers at field outlet valves, a buried pipe distribution
system in the form of closed loops each serving about 50 ha, outlet valves on
the pipe system each commanding about 5 ha and operated by farmers, earthen
field chlannels below the outlets to serve each farmer's holding, and an
access way to the water point for operation and maintenance purposes.
48.     Project wells would be constructed in clusters of about 25 wells and
would be provided with electrical power through independent or "dedicated"
feeder lines (earmarked to serve public tubewell systems) which connect the
wells in the cluster to the nearest power sub-station. While this was not
initially a feature of the improved well design tested under the on-going
project, the importance of providing a system which would enable project
wells to operate reliably, protected from the outages due to power rationing
and overloading on many rural lines, became clear during project implementa-
tion. Ihus, this feature is not only to be introduced in the proposed
project, but is also being incorporated in as many as possible of the wells
built under the on-going project. The Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP)
would energize project tubewell systems within two months of their comple-
tion, and provide project tubewells with power, via the dedicated transmis-
sion lines described above, for about 16 hours per day at peak demand periods
and with a voltage fluctuation of not more than 6% (Section 2.10, Project
Agreement). The Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board (UPSEB) would charge
the Irrigation Department for electricity provided to project wells on the
basis of actual power consumption as recorded by meter, rather than on the
basis of the flat-rate system currently in place (Section 3.06, Project
Agreement).
49.     New tubewell systems constructed under the project would be located
in areas where: (a) the construction of private tubewells is difficult
because of the drilling depth necessary to achieve a satisfactory yield;
and/or (b) the area is economically backward and further private well con-
struction would be very slow to develop; (c) project tubewells can be located
in clusters of about 25 wells (in order to enhance efficiency of use of
dedicated power lines); (d) not more than 20% of the command area of the
tubewell cluster would consist of holdings of owners of private irrigation
sources (excluding open wells); and (e) the average holding size in the
cluster would not exceed 0.65 ha. Once a location which satisfies these
criteria has been selected, a tubewell cluster planning report would be
prepared in draft by the Tubewell Wing of the Irrigation Department and
circulated to all relevant agencies (particularly the UPSEB and the Agricul-
ture Department) for comment and, in the case of UPSEB, approval before being
finalized by the Irrigation Department.
50.     A rotational system of water allocation would govern delivery of
water to individual farmers in a tubewell system.  Only one outlet per dis-
tribution system loop would be open at any one time, thus fixing the rate
of water delivery and allowing the quantity delivered to be defined on a time



-17-
basis. The command area of each distribution loop (2 or 4 loops/well depend-
ing on pumping capacity) would be divided into seven sections of about 7 ha
each, with each section, or "area day", ent:itled to water on a fixed day of
the week.  Assisted by the tubewell engineEr and an agricultural officer,
farmers within each area-day would form a committee to organize a schedule
for water distribution within the command.  Water would be allocated to each
farmer in proportion to the size of his hoLding.  Leaders chosen by each
area-day committee would in turn select from among their ranks five repre-
sentatives to sit on the Tubewell Committee, which would be responsible for
coordination and cooperation among area-day committees, adjudication of
disputes, and oversight and adjustment, in concert with the tubewell
engineer, of the rotational schedule. The President of each Tubewell Commit-
tee would represent the tubewell farmers oni a Tubewell Cluster Committee,
which would be consulted by the staff of the Irrigation and Agriculture
Departments on issues affecting the entire cluster.
51.     Procedures for tubewell system operation and maintenance have tradi-
tionally been weak in Uttar Pradesh. The on-going project provided for the
separation of the operation and maintenance (O&M) function from the construc-
tion function within the Irrigation Department, contrary to past practice
under which tubewell construction and O&M had been supervised by the same
staff. The objective of this change was to permit the establishment of a
specialized, effective O&M service which was not given secondary importance
relative to construction activities, and to permit accurate monitoring of O&M
costs. While the State Government was slow in accomplishing the required
reorganization, the apparent benefits of the change have motivated GOUP to
separate (in April 1982) construction from O&M activities at the divisional
level for the entire State public tubewell program. The importance of effec-
tive operation and maintenance would continue to be stressed under the
proposed project, which would provide buildings, vehicles, and equipment to
support the O&M divisions, which, as mentioned above (paragraph 47), will
operate and maintain project tubewells in accordance with procedures and
criteria established in consultation with IDA. In addition, GOUP would
ensure that the Irrigation Department keeps separate accounts of O&M expendi-
tures on project tubewells, to facilitate close monitoring of O&M costs
(Section 3.03, Project Agreement).
52.     Upgrading of Existing Tubewells.  It is anticipated that dedicated
power lines serving clusters of new wells constructed under the project will
often pass quite close to existing public tubewells. Connection of existing
wells to the dedicated power lines would, at relatively low additional cost,
considerably improve the performance of these wells and at the same time
enhance the economic viability of the power transmission network. Thus,
provision has been made for connection of about 650 existing public tubewells
(4-6 per new tubewell cluster) to the dedicated feeder lines to be con-
structed under the project, along with related improvements to electrical
equipment at these wells.
53.     While this program will provide a good deal of information about the
costs and benefits of one form of upgrading of existing wells, the project
would also include a pilot program to test the physical and economic
feasibility of alternative approaches to modernizing existing public
tubewells. The program would cover about 100 existing wells and would be



-18-
designed to provide information about the costs and benefits of various
modernization measures as a basis for the possible development of a
full-scale modernization program.
54.     Research and Development.  While the advantages and economic
viability of the improved tubewell system design to be incorporated in the
project have been demonstrated through the initial pilot project, IDA and
GOUP recognize that further improvements in design specifications and operat-
ing procedures may be possible. Thus, the project would support a program of
studies and pilot projects designed to test improved irrigation techniques
which are either untried in Uttar Pradesh or have been attempted only on an
experimental scale. A special unit would be established within the Tubewell
Wing of the Irrigation Department to prepare and implement the research and
development program. The Irrigation Department would furnish a proposed
annual research and development program to IDA by July 1 of each year for
review aend comment prior to implementation of the program (Section 2.07,
Project Agreement).
55.     Agricultural Development.  The existing agricultural extension
program in Uttar Pradesh is not equipped to provide the support necessary to
assist beneficiaries of the project in moving from rainfed to irrigated
farming. To meet the need for adequate agricultural support to beneficiary
farmers, a special unit would be set up in Uttar Pradesh's Department of
Agriculture to work exclusively on agricultural development in the command
areas of project wells and improved tubewells constructed under the on-going
first Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project. An agricultural service center
would be provided for each tubewell cluster, to serve as the focal point for
the agricultural development program and to provide quarters for field staff.
The project would finance staff, civil works, equipment, and operating costs
(including training) of the project agricultural unit. Agriculture Depart-
ment staff teams would work in a given area until the majority of tubewell
systems within a cluster had achieved predicted or near-predicted crop
production, and then move on to another cluster, handing over the fully
developed area to the State's existing extension service. While working in a
cluster, agricultural development staff would carry out regular, scheduled
visits to farmers' fields to provide agricultural advice, establish and
oversee farm demonstration plots, assist farmers in getting timely supplies
of inputs and collect information on farming practices and the manner in
which they change. In view of the essentially "pilot" nature of this
program, GOUP would (i) by June 30, 1984, furnish IDA, for its review and
comment, with terms of reference for a mid-term review of the agricultural
development component; (ii) thereafter carry out the review; (iii) submit a
report summarizing the results of the mid-term review to IDA for review and
comment by June 30, 1985; and (iv) thereafter make any required adjustments
in the functioning of the program (Section 2.13, Project Agreement).
56.     Training.  In order to ensure proper construction and operation of
the improved tubewell systems, the project would support in-service training
for relevant construction and O&M staff of the Irrigation Department's
Tubewell Wing. Courses would cover planning and design of improved tubewell
systems, with special attention to the layout of the piped distribution
system; water allocation and land acquisition procedures and legal parameters
affecting public tubewells; the operation and maintenance of completed



-19-
tubewell systems; and cultivator organization and basic cultivation practices
for principal crops likely to be grown in tubewell command areas.
57.     As an important resource for the training program, the Irrigation
Department would prepare (i) a comprehensive Design Manual which would record
planning principles, design criteria, specifications, and construction
methods for improved tubewell systems; and (ii) an O&M Manual covering all
aspects of management of public groundwater systems. Drafts of these manuals
would be prepared and furnished to IDA for review and comment by December 31,
1984, and the manuals subsequently finalize!d for use by the Irrigation
Department (Section 2.08, Project Agreement). The project would fund the
preparation and printing of these manuals as well as the equipment, civil
works and study tour costs associated with the training programs.
58.     Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would support monitoring and
evaluation programs in both the Irrigation and Agriculture Departments which
would include the collection and analysis of information on the following
broad topics: (a) project implementation (,physical and fiscal performance
compared with project targets and planning, cost, and quality assumptions);
(b) water supply and demand at the water point and at field level;
(c) farmers' response to irrigation and agricultural development service
provided under the project; (d) crop yield and production performance in the
command areas of project wells.
59.     Preparation of Future Irrigation Projects.  The Second Gujarat
Irrigation Project (Credit 1011-IN, approved May 1, 1980) included
US$10 million equivalent to finance preparation of future irrigation projects
in India, in support of the Central and State Governments' efforts to sub-
stantially expand their investment programs for irrigation. The purpose of
this project component was to promote the use of new planning techniques and
encourage the kind of detailed data collection and project preparation effort
required to match India's needs and potential. The funds provided under
Credit 1011-IN, now nearly fully disbursed or committed, have been put to
very productive use, financing such activities as the establishment of plan-
ning agencies for the development of the Narmada Basin, design and
feasibility studies by foreign and domestic consultants, advisory services
for the design of several major dams, pilc,t irrigation operations and pur-
chase of specialized equipment. In view of the very favorable experience
with the project preparation component under the Second Gujarat Irrigation
Project, the present project would include an additional US$10 million equiv-
alent to finance technical assistance, pi-Lot works, training, and equipment
requirements related to future irrigation project preparation and support
existing or new project preparation cells at the Central and State levels.
Project Implementation
60.     With the exception of the project preparation component, which would
be administered by GOI's Ministry of Irrigation, overall responsibility for
project implementation would rest with GO1JP's Secretary for Irrigation and
Power. Two agencies under his jurisdictiDn would handle construction and
operation and maintenance of project wells -- the Tubewell Wing of the
Irrigation Department and the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board. Respon-
sibility for the agricultural development component would rest with the



-20-
Agriculture Department.  The Chief Engineer of the Tubewell Wing would act as
Project Coordinator. He would be assisted by a Project Coordinating Unit
which has been established in the Tubewell Wing. GOUP would maintain this
unit, with adequate staff, including inter alia a suitably qualified officer
to head the unit, throughout the project period (Section 2.05, Project Agree-
ment).
61.     In order to assist it in carrying out its duties under the project, a
new circle would be added to the headquarters of the Tubewell Wing. Desig-
nated the Investigation, Planning and Design, and Procurement Circle, it
would have divisions responsible for (i) planning and design (in particular,
preparation and clearance of tubewell cluster planning reports, implementa-
tion of the research and development component, and preparation of the Design
and O&M Manuals); (ii) training and monitoring and evaluation; (iii) all
aspects of quality control during well construction and commissioning; and
(iv) procurement and project accounts and audits. Power supply to project
wells would be handled by a special Public Tubewells Electrification Unit,
which has been established and would be maintained within the UPSEB (Sec-
tion 2.09, Project Agreement). With a view to enabling the Agriculture and
Irrigation Departments to carry out their construction, O&M, monitoring and
evaluation, and agricultural development functions as efficiently and effec-
tively as possible, GOUP would deploy and train staff in these departments in
accordance with staffing schedules and organization plans established in
consultation with IDA (Section 2.06, Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
62.     Total project costs are estimated at US$192 million equivalent, net
of taxes; and duties with the exclusion of a few minor items where taxes and
duties are insignificant. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at
US$11.3 million, or about 6% of total project cost. Physical contingencies
of 5% have been applied to the base cost of civil works. Price contingen-
cies, amounting in total to 29% of base cost, have been applied as follows:
8.5% in 1982/83, 8.0% in 1983/84, 7.5% in 1984/85, 7.0% in 1985/86, and 6%
thereafter. The principal components of project cost, net of contingencies
and of engineering and administration, are: new tubewell system construction
(US$110.3 million), upgrading of existing tubewells (US$6.3 million),
agricultural development (US$6.1 million), and future irrigation project
preparation (US$10 million). The balance of project cost covers construction
of buildings required by the Irrigation Department for implementation of the
construction, monitoring, O&M and training programs (US$3.4 million), land
acquisition (US$1.3 million), O&M equipment and vehicles (US$0.5 million),
research and development (US$0.9 million), training (US$0.2 million),
monitoring and evaluation (US$0.1 million), administration and engineering
(US$7.1 million), and contingencies (US$46.0 million).
63.     The proposed credit of US$101 million would finance about 53% of
project cost, 1/ net of taxes and duties, including all foreign exchange
1/ That is, 50% of the Uttar Pradesh project cost (see page (ii) above) and
the full cost of the project preparation component.



-21-
costs and about 50% of local costs.  The balance of the funds required for
the project would come from State and Central Government sources. The
Government of India and the International Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment (IFAD) have recently held negotiations for an IFAD loan of
US$35.3 million equivalent in support of the project. If approved and signed
by IFAD and GOI, this loan would be applied to the GOI/GOUP portion of
project cost. In any event, however, GOI/GOUP would make available the
resources required to carry out the project: as scheduled. In order to allow
GOUP to take advantage of the current dry season to begin the construction
program, retroactive financing of up to US$;2.5 million would be provided for
approved expenditures made after September 15, 1982 for well construction,
acquisition of vehicles and equipment required for field operations, and
procurement of PVC and steel pipes, casings, and fittings.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.     Civil works to be financed under the project would cost approximately
US$59.8 million, 1/ and would consist of d.illing of bore holes; construction
of well distribution systems, access roads, and buildings (e.g., pump houses,
workshops, office and storage facilities, -raining facilities and staff
quarters); and civil works related to powe^- transformation and transmission.
These works would be individually small and widely dispersed, geographically
and over time, and would thus be unsuitablea for international competitive
bidding. Drilling (US$15.0 million) would be carried out departmentally by
the Tubewell Wing, which has an established, technically competent staff
capable of drilling about 1,200 wells per year, of which IDA-financed wells
would form only a part. This arrangement is justified since there are at
present no local contractors capable of or equipped to carry out deep drill-
ing of the sort required for project wells; moreover, the Tubewell Wing's
considerable drilling capacity could not be easily dismantled and would thus
lie partially idle if drilling were put out to contract. Installation of
power transformation and transmission systems (US$8.7 million) would be
carried out directly by UPSEB, in accordance with standard practice in India;
UPSEB is adequately staffed and competent to handle such works. Of the
remaining civil works (US$36.1 million), 2/ works totalling approximately
US$25.2 million would be carried out by local contractors selected on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to IDA. Materials under these contracts would generally be
provided by the State Government; these materials, with the exception of PVC
and steel pipes, casings, and fittings (see paragraph 65 below), would be
procured in accordance with GOUP's standard practices, which are acceptable
to IDA. The remaining civil works (US$10.9 million) would be very small and
scattered (e.g., earthen distribution channels), and their implementation
highly dependent on weather and agricultural conditions. These works would
1/   All figures in paragraphs 64 and 65 are net of engineering and
administration.
2/   Including the cost of basic construct:ion materials (e.g., brick, con-
crete, timber, gravel, cement), but excluding PVC pipes and fittings and
steel casings and fittings.



-22-
be executed departmentally (about US$0.9 million) or through rate or
piece-work contracts (about US$10.0 million), let on the basis of procedures
satisfactory to IDA.
65.     Materials, 1/ equipment and vehicles to be financed under the project
would total approximately US$103.1 million. Steel casings and fittings
(USS13.1 million) and PVC pipes and fittings (US$56.9 million) would be
procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Pumpsets and related spare parts (US$7.7 million), ancillary
pumpset equipment (US$6.1 million), alfalfa valves (US$1.5 million), and
vehicles and remaining miscellaneous small items of equipment or quantities
of materials (totalling US$5.8 million) would be procured after local com-
petitive bidding. Adequate and timely maintenance of widely dispersed
pumpsets and accessories, valves, and vehicles requires a well-established
network of service and parts supply facilities of the sort available for
locally procured goods, which are both technically and economically competi-
tive. Power supply materials and equipment -- i.e., conductors
(US$7.8 million), distribution transformers (US$3.2 million) and high tension
insulators (US$1.0 million) -- would be procured by the UPSEB in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts for
these items would not be suitable for ICB, as they would of necessity be
comparatively small, these items being required in small amounts at locations
(not yet determined) spread across the entire State and on a delivery
schedule spanning four years.
66.     The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against: (i) 55% of
expenditures incurred on construction and/or electrification of new or
upgraded tubewell systems; (ii) 55% of expenditures on steel and PVC pipes,
casings, and fittings; (iii) 100% of the ex-factory price or 70% of the cost
(where ex-factory price is not available) of vehicles and equipment for
research and development, operations and maintenance, agricultural develop-
ment, and monitoring and evaluation; (iv) 60% of remaining expenditures on
research and development, monitoring and evaluation, training and agricul-
tural development; and (v) 100% of expenditures on project preparation.
Disbursements against tubewell system construction and electrification costs
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, itemized by major
component and accompanied by a certification by the Superintending Engineer
in charge that the tubewell system has been completed and electrified in
accordance with agreed planning and design criteria, and that the well is
operating at not less than 70% of design discharge with a command area
proportional to its discharge. Disbursements against payments of less than
Rs 150,000 for equipment and vehicles, and against other expenditures for
monitoring and evaluation, research and development, training, agricultural
development, and project preparation would also be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Statements of expenditure would be audited
annually, by independent auditors, in order to verify that funds withdrawn
were used for the purpose indicated and that payments have been made.
Documentation related to these expenditures would be retained by the State
1/   In addition to those basic construction materials included in civil
works costs set out in paragraph 64 above.



-23-
and Central Governments for inspection in the course of project review mis-
sions. Disbursements against all other expenditures would be fully docu-
mented. The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1988.
Cost Recovery
67.     The State of Uttar Pradesh has been generally quite progressive with
respect to cost recovery for public groundwater development. Public
groundwater is allocated and priced on a vo!Lumetric basis, with water charged
at a different rate in the kharif (wet) and rabi (dry) seasons in order to
encourage full utilization of the irrigatioa service. GOUP regularly reviews
and adjusts water charges; in July 1981, public tubewell water charges were
raised by 20% for the rabi season and 60% fDr kharif, with a further increase
planned in 1982/83. If the power supply were sufficiently reliable to permit
efficient tubewell operation, the current charges would cover all O&M costs,
with the present power tariff structure. Water charge revenues are supple-
mented by an agricultural sales tax and by land taxes, which differentiate
between irrigated and unirrigated land. These land and sales tax revenues
would, of course, be enhanced as a result of the project, as area irrigated
and crop production increase.
68.     Although the State's approach to cost recovery is reasonably progres-
sive, it would not be appropriate to apply it directly to project wells and
charge for water supplied from improved public tubewells on the same basis as
for water supplied from existing wells of traditional design. Tubewell
systems built to the improved design provide farmers with a much more reli-
able irrigation service than traditional systems. Moreover, the buried pipe
distribution system, which reduces conveyance losses to negligible levels, is
a significant advantage to farmers in commands of improved tubewell systems,
since water charges are levied on the basis of the volume of water pumped as
measured at the well-head. The enhanced quantity and quality of the irriga-
tion service provided by the improved wells offer farmers the opportunity to
adopt more intensive, and remunerative, cultivation practices. It is the
confidence engendered by a reliable irrigation source that permits farmers to
make the associated investments in cash inputs and time required to realize a
fuller measure of the agricultural potential of their holdings.
69.     Against this background, it is reasonable to assess beneficiaries
of the irrigation service provided by project wells (which are, of course,
more costly than old standard tubewells) a charge which reflects the enhanced
quality of the service they receive. Therefore, GOUP would, not later than
December 31, 1983, prepare and furnish to 1he Association for review and
comment, a proposal for establishing a new system of water charges for
improved tubewell systems which would reflect the efficiency and reliability
of the irrigation service as well as the quantity of water pumped at the
well-head (Section 3.04(a), Project Agreement). GOUP would implement the new
system, having taken into account the Association's comments on the initial
proposal, in accordance with a timetable wnlich would also be furnished to IDA
for review and adjusted to reflect IDA's comments, if any (Section 3.04(b),
Project Agreement). Water charges under the new system would be set so as to
ensure that by July 31, 1988, water charges would cover the average cost of
operation and maintenance of tubewell irrigation systems and a reasonable
portion of tubewell system capital costs, taking into account the repayment



-24-
capacity of beneficiary farmers (Section 3.04(c), Project Agreement). During
the period preceding implementation of the new system in any given tubewell
command area, GOUP would continue to apply the current volumetric water
charge system, setting water charges on the basis of regular reviews of the
capital and O&M costs of public tubewell irrigation systems (Section 3.05,
Project Agreement).
70.     With respect to the appropriate degree of capital cost recovery under
the new system, it is important that water charges be kept at a level which
retains an incentive for farmers to utilize irrigation water, not merely for
protective irrigation in the event of drought but for the sort of intensive
agriculture which will result in considerably enhanced production and yields.
In order to achieve this, the system must also protect the farmers' capacity
to purchase the other inputs necessary to generate the incremental crop
production possible with reliable irrigation. This aspect of the water
charge system is particularly important in view of the high proportion
(roughly 95%) of project beneficiaries who will be small and marginal farmers
currently existing at or below the poverty level. In the interest of provid-
ing the information necessary to set water charges at appropriate levels,
GOUP would carry out a socio-economic study of project beneficiaries, under
terms of reference established in consultation with IDA, and furnish the
results and recommendations of the study to IDA by July 31, 1986
(Section 2.11, Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
71.     The proposed project would expand the irrigated area in Uttar Pradesh
by approximately 235,000 ha, bringing irrigation to about 440,000 farm
families currently not served by public irrigation systems. The economic
rate of return for the typical cluster of 25 project wells is estimated at
about 30%. 1/ The project is expected to result in increased production of
about 300,000 tons per year in foodgrains (an increase of 150% over projected
production without the project), 371,200 tons per year in sugarcane, and
9,900 tons per year in oilseeds. The value added to the local economy due to
these production increases is estimated at Rs 320 million (US$33.7 million
equivalent) per year. Incremental farm employment generated by the project
is expected to amount to the equivalent of 80,600 jobs. In addition, about
30,000 seasonal jobs for unskilled labor would be created annually for con-
struction of tubewell systems under the project, and about 2,800 permanent
jobs would be created for tubewell operators and agricultural development
staff. Most project beneficiaries are expected to be small or marginal
farmers who cannot afford a private irrigation source, a high proportion of
whom are living at present at or below the absolute poverty threshold. Even
at full project development, it is anticipated that up to 75% of the farming
population cultivating 50% of the land within a typical project tubewell
1/   Thus, this can be taken as the rate of return for the project, with the
exclusion of the monitoring and evaluation, research and development,
training, and project preparation components. (Please see Staff
Appraisal Report, Section VIII for details.)



-25-
command area will, despite the increased income generated by the project,
still live under poverty conditions.
72.     In addition to the direct production benefits referred to above, the
project would facilitate more efficient utilization and management of
groundwater resources, would test means of increasing the efficiency of
existing tubewells in Uttar Pradesh built to the old technology (via the
pilot upgrading program), and would explore further technical advances which
may be made in public tubewell system technology. Finally, the improved
tubewell technology would permit greater equity in water allocation
throughout the area served by project tubewells.
73.     Economic analysis indicates that only substantial deviations from
the appraisal assumptions regarding costs, average number of running hours
per well, and net incremental crop production would threaten the project's
economic viability. In the case of construction and O&M costs, significant
variance from the assumed figures is unlikely, as these are based on actual,
recent experience under the on-going project, with appropriate allowances for
contingencies. As for average tubewell operating hours, while there is a
residual risk of irregularities in power supply, technical and administrative
innovations introduced under the project (e.g., automatic pumps specially
fitted to guard against electrical breakdown, dedicated power lines, improved
maintenance procedures) have been designed specifically to protect against
interrupted service due to mechanical breakdown or overloading and power
rationing on the rural power grid. Proper organization of farmers within
tubewell commands would provide further prctection against interrupted
service, by ensuring the existence of an organized pressure group to identify
operational problems and press for their resolution.  Finally, the apparent
lack of demand for tubewell service which is seen in the command areas of
many old, unimproved tubewell systems is unlikely to affect project wells,
from which a reliable, timely, and equitable service will be available. With
respect to net incremental production, crop yields assumed at full develop-
ment are conservative relative both to what can be achieved with a full and
reliable irrigation service and to what has been achieved under the on-going
project, even in the absence of an adequate agricultural support service.
Moreover, the project supports a comprehensive agricultural development
program, which is designed to assist farmers in achieving full agricultural
benefits and which will be closely monitored throughout project implementa-
tion to ensure that adequate service is provided.
74.     The project's economic rate of return is somewhat more sensitive to
the output price assumptions made in the analysis. The economic prices
assumed for project outputs have been based on IBRD agricultural commodity
price forecasts. As it is judged unlikely that these forecasts overestimate
prices to the extent required to render the project inviable, the related
risk associated with the project is considered acceptable.
75.     With respect to the risk of weaknesses in project implementation, IDA
and GOUP have learned a good deal from the implementation of the on-going
project. A number of potential institutioial weaknesses (e.g., poor coor-
dination among Government departments, inadequate quality control, and low
standards of operation and maintenance) have been identified and corrective
arrangements incorporated in the proposed ?roject.



-26-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Associa-
tion, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of
Uttar Pradesh, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Association are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
77.     Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
78.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
February 15, 1983.



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DAt'A SHEET                    Page  1  of  5
INDIA                       R]!FERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    70.0       110.0      240.0             261.4                     890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      111.2        152.5     194.4              448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)   434850.0    547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9          19.7      22.3               17.3                      32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       132.3        166.6     200.6              158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0         307.8     362.8              355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          40.9         42.7      40.2               36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.5         54.2      56.8               59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.6          3.1       3.0                3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8          2.3       2.1                2.0                      2.3
URBAN                               2.5          3.3       3.3                3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.7         40.0      35.6               29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.8         16.7      13.6               11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9          2.7       2.4                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      64.0      3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          12.0      22.6               19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           98.0       102.0       99.0              108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.6        90.4       88.8/c             97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.6        49.7       48.4/Z             56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.2        14.8       13.1/c             20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      26.2         20.7      17.4               10.9                      6.7
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.2         48.1       51.8               57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           165.0       139.0      123.4               89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0      33.0               32.9                     32.0
URBAN                                           60.0      83.0               70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                ..          6.0      20.0               22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         18.0      20.0               18.1                     37.7
URBAN                                ..        85.0       87.0               72.7                     65.7
RURAL                                ..          1.0       2.0                4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4850.4      4889.0    3630.6              3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5    5696.1               4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2178.7      1612.9    1311.0/e            1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                                ..           ..     362.3/f            301.3                    651.6
RURAL                                ..           ..   10432.8/e           5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..                 ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                               5.2         5.6        4.8
RURAL                               5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6          2.8
URBAN                               2.6          2.8        ..
RURAL                               2.6          2.8        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA-TSOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEWES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0         73.0      78.0/c             97.4                      96.2
MALE                  80.0        90.0       92.0/?            101.0                     99.8
FEMALE                40.0        56.0       63.0/?i            87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.0         26.0      27.0/c             53.0                     37.6
MALE                  30.0        36.0       36.0/7             63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                10.0        15.0       17.0/'             41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0           1.0       0.7/f               1.7                     20.8
PU'PIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.1         41.5      51.8/c             37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                          16.0         20.9        ,,               20.2                      25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0         33.4      36.0               52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.6          1.1       1.3/c              1.5                       9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4,9         21.5      33.6               35.4                    116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.0          0.0       1.0                3.2                     37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  10.6         16.0      19.8               16.4                     53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1           4.1       3.7                3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   185951.1    219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   30.7        32.5       31.8               29.5                     33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.0         74.0      69.3               70.0                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         11.0      13.2               15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.8         40.0      39.2               40.0                     38.5
MALE                                 57.0         52.4      51.8               51.8                     50.5
FE4ALE                               27.3         26.9      25.9               23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.1       1.1                1.0                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7         26.3/S    22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.9/g    49.4/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.7j      7.0/-                       
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.2A     16.2/
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     132.0              133.8                    194.7
RURAL                                ..           ..     114.0              111.1                    155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 ..                    178.2
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                .             '      40.3               43.8                     24.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.7               51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962;  /I  1976;  /f 1975; /I 1964-65.
May, 1982



Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INlDICArORS
Notes:  Although the data are deavo flen  soueces generally judged the st  eh-it-te   ed rliable, it  hould alo  e note ad that they soy not be Inter-
nationally comparable because  of the luck of ata dardied defiuitions and coonepti  used b" different tenancies ih  eollctiag the data.  The dote  are, sno..
-helesa, atefUl ro describe erders of magnitude. ind lctao treads, and rhareterlie aceoral1t saJo  differences beseea countries.
The refarence groups oar  (1) the  osae countra  group ef the sibjert nountry and (2) an ounr:y getup vich aotehat high- eanerage  lnroae than the nousiry ge.up
of the sabject c-anery (escapetar   "High I      cusi a _ Oi fxporrerx" grap ehe-e "'iddle 7mao=  North Afriet and Middle Efot" do uhoeen hecu-se of ecroager
socio-cultural affinitieu).  tnrho  reference groua  data the  -ceu.ges ore population weigLted oribhsotic m;ans for  tach iedi-cato  and ahbus  enly when
sajocity nf the cou.ties  n Ia.  roup has dua for than indieator.  tinee thacoeerags of  auntries atwng the indicators depends on the a. ttlnbliity  at data
atd is not uniform. cantion =uet he enercised in relaonig uavragen of our indilctorto on,ther. The..e averges are only utetal io uotpaclug the eahie ef
one .sdi--tnr at a tisa aong the country ond reference groups.
AREA (ehosand s,k.s.                                                                             'oplaLiot per Hospial. tad - total, uehau, aod aural - Population (total,
Total - Tuta- s-ai-ce ara c-=priinlg laod area  end inland ee-ern; 1979 data.                     urban, and rurnl) dieided by theIr ro.perrivenumher of h-spital beds
Agricultural - Etaia-te of agri-ltura.  areI   used ce"porardly cc per-aneotly                    aeailable in public and prieate general and specdalioed hospital and re-
fdo  ceups, pasture:, -eacket and kitchea gaedecs or to lie falluw; 1979 data.                 hbillitatlionac ters.  Hoepitals ore entahlithatets persanently sttffed
by at laast one physician. Establihshents prociding prtncipalIy tssti-
GNP PiE CAPITA (1S9) - GNP per capita e-cipat-s at carrent naelk   price, cal-                      dial cane are sot included.  Rural hospitals., _oseer. include health
clulted hy sa.e co. .eLsion nethod us korld Bank Atlan (197i8d- bhuis); 1960,                    und nedical ceaters not per-naenl' staffed by a physician (but by a
1970, and 1980 dnat.                                                                             medicoi annistant. nurse, midwife., ec-) which offer i-patient acct          -
d-aio  had pr-ide o Iineded ra-ge If modical faciltiaa.  Per sauna-
ENERGiY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA -  onna1 consusption ot romeereial anergy (ceal                      datican p..p.e .rh-n ahopital  incllude WiHOs pelneipalgeee.e.   a  hospitals,
und lignite, petealans. natural gus and hcdro-. nuclear aod geothermal elec-                     and rueal hospinaln, hocal ur rarai hospitals and pedicai and sateinity
trinity) in kilegeant of coal equicale-t par capita; 1960. 1970. and 1979                        centers.  Spenioli-ed hospials are included only under tonal.
data.                                                                                          Adniom   tperi  d' itvi ted   - total eusber at admissi.os ts ar discharges
frol hsini  diIe   y the uu-bae If beds.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total P            Mpularion, Mid-Year (,hgus.ads) - A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 19iO      hIUSiNg
data.                                                                                        Averoge Sier of Rousehold (persons per honsehald) - sotal, urhbn, and rurai-
ehuaf Porularieu (oercena ot t-ral) - Ratio of urba-  ttotol populatien;                         A heusehold consiste of o group of indicidoals vho share livitg qnarlers
ditgerent deticitions of urhbn areassay affact cowarability of dens                            and their sai  steals.   A boarder or lodger psy LI say cot be included Ia
among countrirs; 1960, 197i. ond 19ff data,                                                     the houkehold tar ntatistiral purposes.
Popalotian Projenuleas                                                                         Average nshee af  persons per rue - total, urban, aed coral - average no
Populationifnear 200 - Current popurion projertina  ure bated on 19i0                          her of persons per rann  in all urhat, and rual occupied cosesteonal
iceal populatiot by age and  en ao.d their  -ortality and fertility  rates.                  dvellings, respe-tively.  Oeellt_gsRneilde eon-peesaenencructraeaad
Projection patu.rtees (or mo-tolity rates  -omprine of there  lecels issue                   aneopled parts.
ing lafe enpertaury at birth inc_rasiug vith country'  per capita Lfopem                   Accesato iElectr`lity (percent t If delligs) - toeal, urhbn, and rural -
lrel, and fesale life o,pec_a_cys ruhbiolog at "7.15 Para.  The para-                        tonv.enional d.ellln  airh elececiriry In lietog qu-rters aa pereco age
motors for Iertl-ity cate also have three levels  Jssumini declinr in                        of total. urhan, aod rural dvrliings renpertlualy.
fertility according ta incopg level and past family planning peforsauce.
t9ch crunt- c Is then oauig-ed one of thes ni- combinatio.s  of ec-alftfy               lUtUCAfiOi
sd fertility trends for prujeci-c Purpossa.                                                Adjusetd Enuill-ont Ratia
Stationary population -In a urationry popolatiun  there is ha grovthsicce                      Primary  school - total, mole and fexsle - GIros total, sale and fele
the birth rote is ecoul no the death rate. ad alto the age structure re-                       enrolisent of all ages at the prisary level nt per.enrages of respecrive
salon  constant.  Thia is achieved only after featti.ly eaten decline to                       primary school-age populatiuns; nrsIaly ianludes childret aged 6-11
the replacenent level of  unit net reproduction rLate.  hen each generat.io                    peas bht adjasted for differeet lengths of peisary edua.tion; foe
of vppen repiacas iroelf et-ctly.  The oraIaoaery popalariocnI ie was                          tountriese i- h uneiersl edu.anion enroll-Int =y ruceed 100 pFreene
asti-tmed on tho hosis uf the prujected rharactoristics of the populaenon                      niece nsa pupils ara below or aboce the official school age.
to the year ZOOO, osd the -ate of decline of feltility rate to  eplare-                      Secondary -cha-l - total, sal  and female I- tpted as above; secondsry
sane   Ioel                                                                                  aducat. ion .eqires at least fuao pears of appro-d primary instrtias;
Yearlstatioeary pupula   iB reaed - The year when stat-onney population                          provides general, nocatiotol, or tea her tra inig instructions tar pupils
stia   ill be re-ched.                                                                         us.ally of i2 to 17 yearn of age; ca.reepoed ence  courses are genrslly
Fopul.ai-n Density                                                                                  excluded.
Per sq. kI. - Mid-year pupuluti-r pee square kilocater (100 h-ntares) ef                     Vocational enrolimont (percenr at sfeendory)  -  VocanioslI ins-tiltios.
total  area; 1960, 1970 ond 1979 data.                                                       in-lude thlical, industrial, or other progrcas whinh opeatle i.depend-
Per sq. kh. agricultural land - Cooputed as above Ir ugeirulturol land                         ently or an deparemeros cf  secondary insrtitotins.
Oly; 19h0, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                             Pspil-reaaherretio - primTary  asd seeoedacy - Ttotl stodests enrolled in
YPealanian Age grructure fercent) - Children (0-14 yearl), eorking-age (15-                      prlmorp and nocdary levela dfilded by aaeber  of tacehelr  ia the
64 years), and retired (65 yearn and  -or) an percecangen of mid-your pcpu-                   correspoading leels.
untion; 1961, i9ch, and 191O data.                                                           Adult literacy rote (parcent) - Litertet  adults (able to read and write)
Porulation Iraw  h Rate (perceni) - total - Annual gruvth raes af total eid-                     as a perceesage of total adult populanion aged 15 years and oer.
year populario.-f-r 195060, 196D-07D a:d 1970-ha.
Populatio- Grovth Rate (percena) - urbac - Annuol grovth  elts of urban popu-                CONSUMPTION
lations Ior 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-80.                                                   Passenger Cars (pee thousand popnlation) - Passenger curt cotpriea  -arD
_rude tirth Raer (per  thousand) -   Annul lie  birthn pee thousand If =id-ysr                   cars -eating less thau eight persons; excladen acbula .es, heaases and
population; 19h0. 1970, aed 1961 dana.                                                         military vehicles.
Crade Dearh date (par thousand) - Annual deaths per thoueand  of oid-year                      Nadia Receirers (per thouanad ppoAlaton) - All typae  of re-otdera far radio
popalatian; 1960, 1970,  and 1960 data.                                                        broad asts to general public per thIusand of popolation; enmoudns an-
Iross RePruducti.n  Raie n-Averagr anhrer oi  dasghiers  osa nwolll bear In                       lirensed eeivers in counteiri  and it  yea_s vh.. registranion at radio
hoe noieal reproduntivc  period if oh  experiences present age-spec-ific fee-                  sets  .s an effect; data foe recen  years may sno  be opanable sinte
tility races; usually fice-year a-eoagen ending ic 1960, 1970, aed 19O.                       east countries aboliched licensing.
Fa-ily Planning - Aeptern, Annual (nhounands) - Annanl cu=ber of ancaptoas                     Tv Roeeiers (p"r rhossand population) - PP reneiners for brosdnast to
of birth-enetrol deoice-  under anspices of national fa=ily p          INalug peugeo=.         general public par ehoussnd populotion; encludes unlitensed Tv recteYrs
Pasily Planing -   aLers (percens of married wosn) - Percentege of married                       in nounnries and ie years vhes registration of TV sets wan is eftect.
vonte  at child-bearing age (15-44 years) sho use birth-coutrol  dteices to                  Nosvpaper tirculatioa  (per thousand pepulation) - Sh-es the  aera6ecir-
all mrried rosen is  -umo age group.                                                           culaueor of "daily g .eral interese oropaulr", defiaed at a periadical
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                                fpblicaton devoted peisarily st  rcording general  saw.k  In is cnesidered
Iden Ifood Prodnction per t t   i                    - lden If pea capiea annual              Cicfmo Acnuol Antend.ane pee Capita pee tear - Based on the nombre af
prod-ceion of all food  oscdities.  Praductioc encludes seed aod foed and                      tickets sold daring the Year. iacluding adsiasionstodrive-liniesa
is on calendar ye-t bhani.  Consaditirn cocoa pri=ory goods (e.g. s-garncae                   _nd _abilInits.
instead of sugar) whiuh ace edible and Ctcaiun ntrients (e.g. toffee and
tea are excluded).  Aggregaee productiec of each c.ontry is based  on                      FAOR POnCE
national average  producer price weIghts; 1961-65. 1970. mod 19dO data.                      Tonal Labor Force (thousands) - lgcos=i-ally attive persona. iscludiag
Par copina supply at caluries (patient of oncuire eots) - tonpuied frcm                          arsgd foeces and nnelpoyed hat e-cluding housevies, students, eec.
energy equinalent of net fond supplies available in caoury per capi-- rceriag populstioe of all ages.  Definitioas it vcrious countriea are
per day.  Available supplies roaprise  dosestic  producticn, isparas lest                      ooticwoea-bln; 1960. 197c  ond 1980 data.
e     Iports, and changes it stock. iet supplies excIude anisal feed, seed.,                   Fe=la (ereceet) - Pe=lt labor force as percnrage of tpeal labor Scene.
quacti lta  uned ic find pruc_essig, and lostes in distribution.  Riquire-                     Agriculture (percent) -  Labor force it faamitg. forestry, h-nting and
xsnts  -ere entilsand by FAO bhed an physiological needs for uormal arti-                        fishing as Percentage af total labor fare; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
lily and health  .onIdern.g geviroasaneal tenpeau-ire, body onighea, age                      Industry (percent) - Labhr forte in siting.,   onstructian, mnufactualog
and see diarrietro  of populantit, and allowing la percean  for surr an                          aed elecarittiy,  stee and goa us peenentoge of total lahbr foeie;
househald Ieveli 19h1-65, 1970 and 1977 data.                                                    1960, 1970 and 1960 face.
Pe capita supply if platein (gra= pen day) - Proteiu rot-e-t of pee capita                     Prrtciipaion Rate (pIercenl) - tIral. gale. and feFgle - Purticipuin or
aet supply of food par day.  Net tupply of ford in defined as abo.  Re-                        a  misity rstes are co=psted as totai, male, and foa=le lshor tome as
qairemanee  for all couerioes entablithod hy UoDA procide for tniPii.                          perceoragee of coral, sale aed female populaei.n  of all oge.r.oapecfe. ly.
allovacces if 60 gVama of I otal prrcIin per day ard 20 grat  f sni-al and                     19h0, 19c., and 1960 data.  These are based o1. ILO's p              lrthnipstou rates
pasle protein, of vhich 10 graFg thould be animal pro  ei.  These stand-                       retlecting agr-sex structure of the popilstion, and lag rise trend.  A
ords are  vear rhan those of 75 gra-s oft totl protein and 23 groa=  of                        fan ontinucen ace fto              ..a.inal sources.
anisal prut-ie  an an aeerage  or the vorld  priponed by PAO in tha Third                    E oha-it lependency datio - dario of population under 15 and 65 and oera
World Food Survey; 1961-61, 1990 lad 1977  data.                                               no the total lahor force.
Pee copiXt protein nupply f-on anunl and pulse-Pr-tein supply If ford de-
rived from  animals and pIIser in grass per day, 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data.             1NCCMf  D tISRIiUTION
huld laces 1-4) Leach date (pe   housand) - hAcual denrhn per lho-ta.d in                      Perintage of Prlia-e Incotp (btlh in cash and kind) - Rdceleed by richest
se Stroup 1        I 4ea, to children in thin agr group, fnr =osr de-oIrping roan-             0 ptrcect. ritheno 20 percent. poirest 20 percaen, and perar 4i percatr
tries dato derived iron life Lablet; 1960, 1970 and 1961 data.                                 of households.
tdLia.  atP et-OfP ...t. Ph.                                                                                    or
HEALTH                                                                                         fOVFERT  TAEGET GROUPS
Life Expectancy an girth (yeoos) - hveA-age nter of years of life  rexaining                   The foll owing est iaes are carp ypprunsane _asunres of poerepy leaeis,
at birth; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data,                                                            and should bh  lcterprsted vith  cnsdershle cation.
Isfant Itbrtality Rate (p-r lh.inand) - Accu-l deaths of ifantt  under cne year               Esnited Abatlute Poverty TacoFm  Level (US$ per capita) - nrban sod enrol -
of age per thousand lice birtha; 1960, 1970 and 19Sf data.                                     _btoinne pocerty inmoLL    ievel in that acomi  lecel babel   which a misi-o
Access to hafe Water (pencect of populanion) - total, u-han, aud enrol - Nti-                    nutritionally adequate diet plus essential con-ford  equireen s is act
her of people (tonal, nrbhn, and rual) with reasonable a cest  o safe                          affordable.
cante supply (inclldes treated turface -acern o  untreated bho  uIcrocaminated               Intisated Relalte- Povery Incoe Level (ii9 per capito) - urban tad -rual -
ea  er sict an that from protected boneholes. nprings, and aanitary vells) an                  aural re lative poverny incose local is roe-third of average Par capia
percnentges of their respective populations.  Inacurhanseo  a pubifc                           personal irte of thercoutry.  Urban lecal is deemed trot the ural
fountain or ssundpnnr located erot=ore thee 200 Peters from a hotse =y he                      leul with adjusemot for higher cat of lining in irban areas.
considered as bring vithli  reas-nahle aress of that house.  II rural areas                  Istisaned Populacion lelov hasolnae Poversy lnroge Level (percent) - urban
reasonable artessavould impli that the honteattte or mothers of the household                  and minil - Paerent of pupulacton (urhan and rural) vhc are "absolute
do aot bane to spend a dinprnyorttunae camI  of trhe day  II feuching the                      purr.
family' .ttar needs.
A ccess to lt_rna Disposal (percent ci pipulation) - teal., urbuD, and rical -
Yucbsr of people (tol, unhac. sed rural) t.rced hy e.e-ta dlspotal an
per eetafen  It theie reaprcire populatio-n.  Ercrrca dilposal =sy Inc lde
the Inleirtuco and disposal.  t.rh or -  itsot ucatmeet, if h-n  exreta
and oaoee-ourne oycnatec-horreasysre=s ore thane usofplCrpriviesnndosixv.-
Inc insral laic ions .
Population par Physician - Populstion divided by nu=be  if p-rattiio pghyi-                                                          Eono=ic and Social Data Dieirn
cisnt qualified from a tedical school at -nicersity local.                     t_onomic Analysis and Prrj,tionn  Dep-tr -nt
Populaiaon per Nursing Person- Poynlaru-u divaded by nu=ber of practisiog                                                                         iay 1982
ale and female graduatonicses, assisoar unuet, prsclical Iusene  and
eursingaauilisries.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONDMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Al
GNP PER CAPITA IN 19 80 US$ 248
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81-                                                           ANNUA. NATE OF GROs d 1.. consitant prices)  /
USS Bln.      7                 1955156-1959/60  196061-1964165   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-197980
GNP at larket Prices                 159.37     100.0                     3.7               3.6                3.6                 2.9               4.1
Gross Domestic Invest,.ent            38.46       24.1
Cross National Saving                 35.30       22.1
Current Account Balance               -3.16       -2.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)           Labor Force  i/             V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bin             7.              Ml.        7.                US$         7. of National Average
Agric-lture                           39.8            39.6             180.6     70.7                 220             56
Industry                              25.2            25.1              32.2     12.6                783             199
Services                              35.5            35.3              42.6     16.7                833             211
Total/Average                        100.5           1 0.0             255.4                         77 3
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government        e/                                     Central Government
Rs. Bin.        7. of GDP                                         Rs. Bln.           . of GDP
1980/81   1980/81  1976/77-1980/81                                 L980/81    1980/81   1976/77-1980/81
Corrent Receipts                   238.19     19.0         19.1                                      125.41       10.0           10.6
Corrent Expenditures               238.93     19.0         18.0                                      133.29       10.6           10.6
Correot Sorplos/Deficit             -0.74     -0.1          1.1                                      - 7.88      - 0.6           N.S.
Capital Expenditures  f/           107.35      8.5          7.6                                       79.99        6.4            5.4
External Assistance (net) d/        12.86      1.0          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    Fehruary 1981   February 1982
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money               109.8       194.6      223.2       273.2       329.1      398.6       467.9       553.1        536.13           615.53
Bank Credit to Gover-ssnt (net)    54.6         95.3        97.9       118.5       137.3      162.4       201.0      258.1         238.22           292.18
Bank Credit to Coss-ercLal Sector   64.6        126.5      153.7       185.1       212.2      253.5       306.3       363.2        349.03           422.15
(Percentage or Index Nuasbers)                                                  April-Feb 1980/81  April-F.1o  1981/82
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP  27.3          28.0       30.1        33.9        40.8       40.9        44.1        44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                  100.0       174.9       173.0      176.6       185.8       185.8      217.6       251.0          255.9                   280.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7        25.2       -1.1         2.1         5.2        -          17.1        18.1          18.4                     9.6
Bank Credit to Government (net)    15.0          9.2         2.7        21.0        15.9       18.3        23.8        28.4          28.6 g/                 02.7 h/
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   19.4         18.2        21.5        20.4        14.6       19.5        20.8        18.6          16.6 g/                 20.9 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimaate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atlas,   81.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Central StatisticaI Organication.
c/  Coeputed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/  World Bank estimatea; not necessarily consistent vith official figures.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advanc:es to third parties hove-been netted out.
E/ Percentage change f rom end-February, 1980 to eod-February 1981.
h/  Percentage change from  end-February, 1981 to end-February 1982.
I Total Labor Force asnd percentage breakdown frot Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 ond Annexure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                1978/79     1979/80    1980/81    1981/82  i         MERCiANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78 - 1980/81)
(US $ Mln.)                                                                                                           US$ Mln.       %
Exports of Goods                    6,978       7,998       8,504        8,700           Engiaeering Goods              908         12
Imports of Goods                   -8,519    -11,302    -15,838       -16,000            Tea                            506           7
Trade Balance                      -1,541      -3,304    - 7,334      - 7,300            Gems                           403           5
NFS (net)                             717       1,100         722          915           Clothing                       501           7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                    - 824      -2,204    - 6,612    - 6,385                 Products                    457           6
Jute Manufactures              303           4
Isterest Income (net) k/               14         196          370         212           Iror Ore                       321           4
Net Transfers   1 /                 1,185       1,577       3,079       1,840            Cotton Textiles                316          4
Sugsr                          102 
Balance on Current Account            375       - 431      -3.163      -4,333            Other                        3,541         48
Official Aid                                                                             Tottl                        7.448        100
Disbursements                   1,695        1,738      2,337        2,724  o/       EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1981
Amortization                    - 702        - 608       - 707       - 659                                                  US$ billion
Transactions with IMF               - 158         -         1,035         690           Outstanding and Disbursed                    17.2
All Other Items                       265       - 475         147       - 797            Undiabursed                                  7.5
Outstanding, including                      24.7
Increase in Reserves (-)          -1,475        - 224         351       2,375                Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)fp/        7,357       7,579       7,228       4,853
Net Reserves   (end year) m /    7,357          7,579       6,901       3,876           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81 3t/ n/  11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                               IBED/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31. 1981
Imports  (Petroleum)                2,043       4,045       6,657        6,075                                                 US$ million
IBRD         IDA
Exports                                24           26         33         ol.a 
Outstanding and Disbursed          984          5646
Unciisbursed                       880          4634
Oul:standing, including
Undisbursed                  1864          10280
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971         : US1,00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - U8$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972          US$1.00 - Res 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                         Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1980                US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - USS0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981                US$1.00 - Res 9,099
Re 1.00 - US0.110
1/  Estimated.
/   Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest: on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
04 Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
o / Includes $ 234 million of commercial borrowings.
I/ Including gold.



I



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 23
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND II)A CREDITS
(As of September 30, 198.)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank             IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
46 Loans/                                               1,568.0              -
75 Credits fully disbursed                                  -           4,352.4             -
342-IN    1973      Education                              -              12.0            0.79
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -              30.0          13.36
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -              83.0          21.60
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -              27.7           9.78
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -              16.4           1.24
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply             -              40.0          10.98
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -             105.0           5.95
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -             150.0          27.19
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.           -               4.0            1.19
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development          -              18.0           8.02
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            L45.0             -            57.10
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                               40.0             -             4.34
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0             -            19.47
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                 80.0             -             7.07
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0             -             6.31
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -              30.0          17.07
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -              20.0           4.48
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -             150.0           14.13
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research         -              12.0          11.80
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0             -             5.86
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                -              10.0           2.71
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation              -              23.0          11.81



ANNEX II
-'age 2 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Lnproval         Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/         Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development          -                8.0           4.86
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                  -              70.0           14.19
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension              -              13.0            2.47
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                       -              58.0            7.30
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                       78.5             -              4.00
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage                -             107.0           71.45
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II           -              87.0           10.06
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                            -               8.0            6.67
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector               25.0             -              7.17
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power           105.0             -             22.25
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                    -             117.6           64.06
793-IN    [978      Korba Thermal Power                     -             200.0           71.61
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture              -              14.0           11.74
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                      -              85.0           48.21
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                -              17.5           11.20
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                       -              16.0           12.69
1592-IN   1]978      Telecommunications VII                120.0             -             37.00
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                          -             150.0          103.36
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                  -             196.0          174.69
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                      -             111.0           13.07
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                        -             190.0           97.94
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage          -              38.0           13.19
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research          -              27.0           22.28
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -                  25.0          12.16
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                                   30.0           10.16
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               50.0             -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power                -             200.0         101.84
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                       -             129.0           80.38
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply                -              48.0           24.15
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II          -             175.0          39.07
925-IN    19379     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry           -              23.0           12.79
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II               -             210.0          123.37
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry                             37.0           22.55
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                        -              20.0           18.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                           -              46.0           42.20
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                    -              32.0          27.07
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                          -              18.0           10.59
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                   -             175.0          150.89



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -               22.0          19.90
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -              300.0         239.39
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -               10.0           9.58
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -               56.0          45.91
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -               54.0          50.16
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                         -              80.0          69.47
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0              -            20.35
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0              -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -              225.0         194.24
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0             -            26.67
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400.0              -            82.69
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -               35.0          24.25
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -               83.0          63.01
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -              42.0           29.53
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -              140.0         117.07
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -             314.0          193.52
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -               54.0          46.49
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -             400.0         314.42
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -              23.0           19.60
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -              28.0          23.28
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -               37.0          31.98
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -              125.0         101.29
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - ]I    -                400.0         400.00
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigatior        -             220.0          206.02
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0             -             81.29
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -               29.0          26.94
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -              25.0          25.00
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0              -           141.49
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0              -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190.0              -           190.00
1209-IN    1982      ARDC IV                                -             160.0           66.36
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                           -                6.0           6.00
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0                         200.00
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III*           304.5                          304.50
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    20.3                           20.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscial
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank           IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                                    60.0           60.00
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply+*                                72.0           72.00
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry*                            33.0          33.00
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh II                             31.0           31.00
Irrigation*
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation+*                             127.0         127.00
Total                                     4,095.3        10,955.6
of which has been repaid                1,173.0           106.7
Total now outstanding                     2,922.3        10,848.9
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -               -
l'otal now held by Bank and IDA 3/        2,922.3        10,848.9
lTotal undisbursed (excluding *)          1,308.1         3,982.7
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.07234) in effect on September 30, 1982.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 23
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                        Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9         -         0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4          -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2          -       0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4        1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8         0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8         1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0        0.3        1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1        0.1        1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                          6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                              4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.          7.5        1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited          15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0             -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited              15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.              2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited                2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                 1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                   28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8          -      18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.               15.9         -       15.9
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.              8.1         -        8.1
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          207.5       12.1    219.6
Less:   Sold                            53.0        2.6      55.6
Repaid                         26.4         -       26.4
Cancelled                       6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      121.9        8.2    130.1
Undisbursed                   103.0        0.5    103.5



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 23
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$1,245 million in FY82, compared to
US$962 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through September 30, 1982 total US$287 million, representing an
increase of about 76% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline as of September 30, 1982, is US$5,291 million.
Ln. No. 1475  Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843  Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051  Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a we]Ll-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well--managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, often in the high technology fields and are also mostly
export-oriented. Disbursements are on schedule for the twelfth loan and
aheacd of schedule for the thirteenth and fourteenth loans.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 23
Loan 1260 is designed to assist thie Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan funds were fully committed
in December 1981, but close supervision has been necessary to ensure timely
implementation of sub-projects and full disbursement of the loan by the
closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the pooling of private and
public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project also assists IDBI
in carrying out industrial sector investmtent studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector. Progress
is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Project progress is good. Land acquisition has been completed and
construction began in July 1982. Basic engineering work was completed on
schedule at the end of August. Procurement is proceeding as planned.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1125  Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
As of June 1982, 31 of the 37 fertilizer sub-projects being funded
by Credit 598 have been completed and are in operation.  IDA has agreed to a
six-month extension of the closing date to December 31, 1982, by which date
the remaining six sub-projects will be completed and the credit fully
disbursed. Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily. Site preparation is
well advanced. All major design and critical procurement work is essentially
complete, and detailed engineering is now being carried out. Disbursements
are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 2123 Refineries Rationalization Project; US$200 million loan of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 29, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Project implementation is satisfactory. The conversion component
is making very good progress. Preparation work and investment approvals for
the energy efficiency and pollution control components are expected to be
completed on schedule. Attention is now being turned to the construction
programs under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 23
Ln. No. 1925  Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date:  February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. All platforms and subsea pipelines
have been installed essentially on schedule. ONGC reached its targetted
production level of 240,000 Bbl/day in May 1982, and is presently producing
250,000 Bbl/day, 44% of which comes from project wells.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 nillion credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8,, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
and       US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government s
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793, together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 23
which also became effective MIarch 16, 19E2, support sinilar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053 assists in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 supports the construction of a 500 MW extension of
the Tata Electric Companies' station at l'rombay, designed to help meet the
forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power
projects are progressing satisfactorily. Construction works for the
Singrauli, Korba, and Farakka stations are on or ahead of schedule, although
some slippage has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam
project.  The first unit at the Singraul:L station was commissioned on
schedule in February 1982, and the second unit in October 1982. The first
unit at the Korba station is scheduled to be commissioned in January 1983.
In the Third Trombay project, design modifications for plant equipment, price
increases for materials, and increases in customs duties have resulted in an
increase in the total cost of the project. The Governnent of India is
raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the additional cost.
Cr. No. 911   Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2165  Third Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$304.5 million
loan of June 22, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Under Credit 911, project implenentation is progressing approximately
on schedule without major problems. Procurement of materials and equipment
is well advanced. Disbursements of the credit proceeds are ahead of
appraisal projections. Under Loan 2165, initial project progress is
satisfactory. Procurement is approximately on schedule, with the State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) now proceeding with bid invitations. REC is
reorganizing its capability to monitor financial performance of the
individual SEBs, which is likely to havE a beneficial effect on this project
as well as on Credit 911.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily. They are
overcoming initial delays caused by procurement problems and a five-month
labor strike against one of the indigenous suppliers. All funds from
Loan 1313 have been committed and procurement action under Loan 1592 is well
advanced. Disbursements are expected to accelerate as work progresses. The



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 23
Posts and Telegraphs Department remains a financially sound and
efficiently-managed organization. Credit 1112 provides for the continued
expansion of the Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural
areaLs, the establishment of three new telecommunication equipment factories
and the modernization and upgrading of three existing ones. Bid evaluation
is progressing satisfactorily and it is expected that the project and its
individual sub-projects will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability. Physical execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. The wheel and axle plant is expected
to be operational by December 1982, and Indian Railways financial and
traffic performance continues to improve.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule. The majority of the equipment required for the
project has been delivered. Contracts have been awarded for civil works
totalling to about US$13 million and work began last March.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 nillion credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed. Construction of new workshop facilities began in
January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan closing date may have to
be extended one year. A bus fare revision on April 1, 1982 increased
revenues by 20% and will enable the project authority to achieve its targeted
operating ratio.
There has been good progress in meeting the physical investments
under Credit 1033. Delivery of more than 600 buses and trams required for
the project should be completed by March 1983. However, management
performance of the project authorities must be improved if they are to
achieve the operational and financial performance targets agreed to. IDA is
engaged in detailed discussions with the Government of West Bengal of
measures required to alleviate existing and possible future problems.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 23
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 nillion credit of
April 11, 1977; Effective Eate: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 19E3
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185  Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 nillion credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective! Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986-
Madras Urban Development I, Credit 687, is fully disbursed and
scheduled to close on December 31, 1982. The project was implemented
satisfactorily and met its basic objectivles, introducing low-cost design
standards to provide slum improvements to over 25,000 households, sites and
services development on 14,000 plots, and improved water supplies;
introducing improved urban management systems; and augmenting the city's bus
fleet and the operational management capabilities of the bus company. The
second project, Credit 1082, is proceeding satisfactorily, with the exception
of the sites and services component, where legal challenges are causing
delays in land acquisition. The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) is actively
pursuing the resolution of these court cases so that land acquisition can be
completed by October 1982 and the sites and services works finished by the
project closing date. Under both credits, the financial performance of the
Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC), the project implementing agency, is
unsatisfactory. It is not generating funds sufficient to meet its financial
targets. An action plan to cut operating costs, reduce new investment, and
raise revenues has recently been formulated and, subject to the agreement of
GOTN, will enable PTC to achieve the required targets by 1983/84 and maintain
them thereafter.
Physical performance in the Calcutta project is generally good. All
sub-projects presently under implementation are scheduled to be completed by
March 31, 1983. Following a review of the overall program for Calcutta's
further development, the Government of West Bengal shifted its investment
priorities somewhat and consequently reqaested a revision of some components
of this project. IDA agreed to the suggested changes, and the closing date
has been extended by nine months to allow for completion of the redefined
project.
Credit 1185, which became effective in April 1982, is aimed at
providing shelter and urban services in Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar
Pradesh. Initial progress has been mixed. The project authority is hampered
by lack of adequate staff with proper management expertise, and land
acquisition disputes are causing delays in civil works. Iowever, there has
been good progress in the slum-upgrading component, where improvements
benefitting about 3,700 households are nearing completion, and the
institution-strengthening aspects of the project are proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 23
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical works under the project are approximately 90% complete.
However, financial performance of the implementing agencies has been
generally poor, and it is likely that many of them may not be able to meet
the financial performance targets agreed with IDA.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Under Credit 842, construction is in progress on the Panjrapur
Treatment Plant, on several reservoirs, and on major water mains; and
procurement contracts are well advanced for the remaining project works.
Revised cost estimates have been prepared because of the delay in the start
of construction. The financial performance of the project authority has been
good.
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory, and the overall
financial performance of the project authorities has improved considerably.
Recent progress under Credit 899 is encouraging. Land acquisition
and construction are proceeding according to the revised implementation
schedule. Following a recent tariff revision, the project entities-
financial performance should improve in FY83.
Under the Rajasthan project, Credit 1046, the rural water supply
schemes are well advanced and engineering designs for the urban schemes are
nearly finalized. The financial performance of the Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage Board has been good. A recent Cabinet decision has deferred the
construction of the planned Hemawas/Kuri Pipeline to provide water to the
city of Jodhpur, in order to consider the possibility of accessing water from
the Rajasthan Canal instead. A consultant has been hired to analyze the
engineering and cost alternatives which would be fully assessed when the
alternative proposals are received in about one year-s time.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 23
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983          
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project.; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$,58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
-Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; U',$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 23
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 16, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Ln. No. 2186  Kallada Irrigation Project; US$20.3 million loan and US$60 million
and       credit of July 6, 1982; Effective Date:  September 21, 1982;
Cr. 'No. 1269  Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1288  Second Chambal Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Project; US$31 million
credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date: Expected November
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads.
Delays in construction caused by initial shortages of cement caused
the Maharashtra I project to fall considerably behind schedule. For the
future, cement will be allotted to the project on a priority basis. In both
Maharashtra projects, increased attention is needed to improve the quality of
construction work in accordance with agreed and appropriate technical
standards, and to correcting the deficiencies which are now present in the
systems.
The Karnataka project is experiencing serious delays in command area
development and completion of construction of the distribution system, due
mainly to lack of proper support from the State Governnent and inadequate
staff'ing of the project entity. The urgent attention of the State Government
must be devoted to the early resolution of these implementation problems.
The Gujarat Medium project is substantially behind schedule, but
performance is expected to improve with the recent resolution of technical
design problems. A detailed review of the project in July established a
revised implementation schedule for the duration of the project. Lack of
proper management and planning in the Gujarat II project have contributed
to serious delays, which may contribute to considerable cost overruns. Due
to unresolved political problems, the Reran component (16% of project costs)
has been deleted. In March 1982, the Government of Gujarat sanctioned nearly
300 new staff positions in the Irrigation Department to be assigned
exclusively to the implementation of World Bank projects. This is expected
to help improve progress in both Gujarat projects, although the project
authorities and State Government officials will need to devote considerable
time and effort if the problems are to be overcome and momentum
re-established.
Progress in canal and watercourse lining is behind schedule in the
Punjab project due to shortages of cement and inadequate provision of
budgetary resources. The Government of Punjab has recently completed a



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 23
review of the project and a revised implementation plan for the duration of
the project is to be presented to IDA in November 1982.
The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irriga':ion Project got off to a slow start
due to delays in selecting the sub-projects to be included. Eleven
sub-projects have now been appraised, ani tendering is underway. The pace of
implementation, and the rate of disbursemnents, are therefore expected to
accelerate. Initial progress under the ]4adhya Pradesh Major Irrigation
Project was delayed by serious start-up problems--among them, considerable
staffing vacancies in the project entity, use of inefficient and cumbersome
procurement procedures, delays in the appointment of consultants, and
deficiencies in technical designs of the irrigation works. The Government
of Madhya Pradesh is keely aware of these problems and is taking steps to
correct them. Project progress is expected to improve soon.
Progress of the remaining projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned for implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; IUS$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance units to
be set up in the Irrigation Department are not yet established. The
Government of Uttar Pradesh has been ur2ed to fulfill this requirement
expeditiously. Project completion may le delayed by six months due to
initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 23
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; ITS$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138 Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$37 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: Jtuly 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219 Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit of May 5, 1982; Effective Date: July 27,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in thirteen States in India. In areas where the reformed
extension system is in operation, field results have been most encouraging,
both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased
crop yields.
In Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular,
significant gains have been made under the projects.
In Assam, after some delays field work continues to improve, the
field research stations are focussing their activities on local requirements,
and the agricultural university is providing good support to extension
training and research.
In West Bengal, a change in government brought a two-year hiatus in
project implementation, but the new State Government has reaffirmed its



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 23
support, and project activities have resumed. There has been considerable
progress in all project components. However, completion of the project in
accordance with its original objectives has required an extension of the
closing date.
Following the decision by the Government of Bihar (GOB) in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts there has
been considerable improvement. The project is being extended to a further
11 districts, bringing the total under implementation to 16 out of a possible
31. GOB has made provision for adequate budgetary resources for 1982-83, and
all extension and research staff required have been appointed, except among
village extension workers where some vacancies persist. GOB plans to
consolidate the extension system in the current 16 districts before extending
it to the entire State.
In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, the basic extension system has been
established and attention now needs to focus on the quality of extension
recommendations and the filling of remaining staff vacancies.
In Kerala, project implementation has begun in three of eleven
districts and is operating satisfactorily. Further progress on the project
will require an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V
system to the remaining eight districts.
I-n Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, project implementation is going
extremely well. Field activities by extension staff are generally well
organized and conducted. Recommendations are widely accepted by farmers.
Initial implementation of the Madhya Pradesh II project has been
slow due to the Government's delay in sanctioning necessary budget resources,
and transferring of Department of Agriculture staff to work in the extension
service. Field activities are being carried out in only two of the four
Year I districts, and have not yet begun in the seven Year II districts.
Considerable orientation in the objectives and procedures of the reformed
extension service is required by staff at all levels.
Early steps are being taken in the Andhra Pradesh project for the
commencement of training, monitoring and evaluation, and civil works
activities, and the procurement of equipment and vehicles. Field work has
yet to begin, pending the issuance of recuired governmental orders for the
transfer of staff to the reformed extension service.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project progress continue satisfactorily. Implementation of the
small-holder component, the project's largest, is gaining momentum. The
banking program is functioning well, witlh the volume of loans sanctioned up
35% over the previous year. The three crumb rubber factories included in the
project are in operation and the cashewnlt plantations are 85% complete.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 23
Ln. No. 2095  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and,      US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209  1982; Effective Date:  May 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC-s lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project requires improvement in several areas. Civil works and
procurement are both somewhat behind schedule, the Project Unit needs
additional staff and there are technical deficiencies in the experimental
agricultural activities being carried out under the project. However, the
pace of sub-project approval during 1981-82 has been satisfactory and
implementation of the sub-projects in the States of Gujarat and Andhra
Pradesh is good.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment
opportuLnities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project
was initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has accelerated recently and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the closing date.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1983
Construction of storage capacity of 1.5 million tons has been
completed, with another 300,000 tons in progress. GOI's proposals to delete
the bulk storage component and provide additional bag storage capacity have
been accepted by IDA. A one-year extension of the closing date has been
granted with the possibility of a further extension on the basis of progress
achieved during this fiscal year.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 23
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Implementation of Credit 871 has
slowed down over the last six months due to shortages in cement supplies and
inadequate project coordination at the State level. Implementation of
Credit 1146 was initially slow due to poor preparation in most States in the
pre-project year. However, since December 1981 the project has gained some
momentum with about 1300 godowns and 40 cold storage units now sanctioned for
construction. Under both projects, the shortage of cement presents a serious
bottleneck; and construction costs have risen considerably, which may
necessitate a reduction in the total number of storage units to be
constructed. NCDC and the State agencies concerned have resolved to do what
is required to speed up implementation of these projects.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development: Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat. Farmer response has been excellent. About
18,000 dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been established, with over two
million members. Profitability of most DCSs is good and construction of
dairy and feed plants is proceeding well.
In Credit 482, construction of the mother dairy at Bangalore, the key
processing facility, was delayed by litigation. Construction by an
experienced civil works contractor has now begun. To allow for near
completion of this dairy, and for the Government of Karnataka to implement
improvements in their management support of the dairy producers unions as
required under the project, the closing date has been extended by one year.
Credit 522 project has proceeded well and is excellently managed.
The processing facilities have been completed and are operational. However,



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 23
the project authorities postponed formation of the DCSs until the processing
facilities and marketing studies were completed. Extension work is now
underway (550 DCSs are already established), but the credit closing date has
been extended by nine months to allow for creation of the total 1200 DCSs
planned, together with their complementary extension and training services.
Under Credit 824, the Operation Flood II Agreements, which allow for
the establishment of federations of DCSs, have now been signed by most of the
participating States. The major obstacle to the project at the moment is the
delay in providing loans to States due to their reluctance to issue the
guarantees required by the IDC for commitment of funds. This is currently
under review by the project authorities.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States. Although they are two to
three years behind schedule because of initial problems in coordination and
monitoring mainly at the national level, there has been significant progress
over the last year. Plans for the 24 seed development farms are complete and
producltion has commenced. Procurement is satisfactory, with six of ten ICB
tenders awarded and two more in process. Most of the seed processing plants
have been sanctioned for construction, and hence disbursements are expected
to improve with the inception of civil works. It is expected that all works
under both projects will be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project helps to finance cashew planting and plantation
improvement programs in the States of Andhra Pradesh, E'arnataka, Kerala and
Orissa. The planting and improvement programs have made very good progress
and the area covered is ahead of appraisal estimates. There is every
expectation that the project will fulfill its objective of significantly
increasing cashew production and improving the incomes of the farmers. In
Orissa there is already evidence of a significant improvement in the farmers
welfare as a result of participation in the project.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing. Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in the



ANNEX II
Page 21 of 23
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Projeat; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Serious staff shortages in the Department of Sericulture have caused
inadequate research and extenslon work and prevented increases in the
production of bivoltine silk, one of the project's principal objectives.
This situation is expected to improve soon, as the Chief Secretary,
Government of Karnataka, is endeavoring to streamline the cumbersome
recruitment procedures to permit more rapid hiring of staff. All other
project components are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Cflosing Date: June 30, 1984
There has been sufficient progress in civil works and the acquisition
of equipment to enable 11 of the 17 apple packing houses and all seven walnut
processing centers to become operational by October 1982. Therefore, it is
most urgent that the project implementing agency fill their positions of
financial and marketing directors in order to formulate appropriate financial
and marketing strategies for their first operating season with the new
facilities. The training program under the project is progressing well, but
research activities are behind schedule due to delays in the appointment of
consultants.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study completed in November 1979 established the feasibility of
developing a forest-based industry in Bastar district. However, following a
GOI review of the study, it was decided that conversion of the natural forest
to pine plantations, as proposed, would not be compatible with the
Government-s social, economic, and environmental policies for the area.
Further project activities have therefore ceased. The project is expected to
close on schedule in December 1982.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Foresl:ry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective D)ate: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 23
Cr. No. 1178  West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1286  Jammu-Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project; US$33
million credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected December 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
Under the Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat projects very impressive results
have been achieved in the tree plantation programs. However, both projects
suffer from serious understaffing, especially among forestry extension
workers, and inefficiences in the management and organization of the social
forestry programs. A special review to be carried out jointly by GOI and
IDA in November 1982, is designed to address these problems.
Initial implementation of the West Bengal project, which became
effective in April 1982, has been satisfactory. Most senior staff are in
position, the monitoring and evaluation unit has been established, and
physical planting so far has exceeded appraisal report targets.
Initial project activities are underway on Credit 1286, signed on
September 7, 1982.
Ln. No. 1897  Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the upper catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and floods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, and feasibility studies of
other watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This has now been resolved, and harbor
works should be finished by mid-1984. Village roads and water supply
components of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. In Andhra Pradesh,
the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was officially opened in February 1982;
harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily
following the resolution of design problems.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 23
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Project implementation is satisfactory. The Central and State
Project Units are functioning efficiently. Detailed designs for the first
two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States have been
completed. The pond improvement schemes are progressing rapidly, with large
numbers of loan applications having been submitted to the participating banks
for approval of financing.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; UJS$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child morbidity and mortality, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility in three districts in
Andhra Pradesh and in six districts in Uttar Pradesh. Implementation of the
project is proceeding well. Marked improvement has occurred in several
components especially construction, now that cement is being allocated to the
project on a priority basis. As a consequence, disbursements are
accelerating. The Director of the Population Centre in Uttar Pradesh has
been appointed and the training program is well underway.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Following an impressive start in one test block where malnourishment
rates fell by 50% during the test period, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks in Madurai District. Progress in civil works
is now satisfactory despite early shortages of cement and the construction
work for the training facilities is to be completed this year.



l



ANNEX III
Pagne I''o' 2
INDIA
SECOND UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Nine months.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Uttar Pradesh, with assistance from the
Cooperative Program of the Food and Agriculture
Organization.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
Project identification and preparation carried out as
part of supervision of Credit 1004-IN.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
April 20, 1982.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
January 28, 1983.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 30, 1983.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) Project-financed tubewell systems to be constructed,
operated and maintained in accordance with standards
and criteria established in consultation with the
Association (paragraph 47).
(b) GOUP to energize wells within two months of comple-
tion, provide power for about 16 hours per day at
peak demand periods with a voltage fluctuation of not
more than 6% (paragraph 48).
(c) GOUP to prepare terms of reference for and carry out
mid-term review of the agricultural development
component, furnish report on such review to IDA by
June 30, 1985, and make any necessary changes in
program thereafter (paragraph 55).
(d) GOUP to prepare Design and O&M Manuals by Decem-
ber 31, 1984 (paragraph 57).
(e) GOUP to deploy and train staff in the Agriculture and
Irrigation Departments in accordance with staffing
schedules and organizational plans established in
consultation with IDA (paragraph 61).
(f) GOUP to prepare (by December 31, 1983) and introduce,
in accordance with a timetable reviewed by IDA, a
new system of water charges to reflect quality as
well as quantity of service provided by project
wells;  and to recover via this system full O&M costs
and a reasonable proportion of capital costs by
July 31, 1988 (paragraph 69).



BR--, 654OR
7c-
C H I N A    30 -
PAK STAN                              BHtiTAN
... . ......                                           YrTAR  _4
HIMACHAL PRADESH                                                                                                                                        I-RA DFSH_   -1
BANG 1111 E5m
C    H     (N      A                            -20,             1 N D I A                2T-
UTTAR KASHf
)J-, K,111..                                                                                                                                     Z?,
CHAMOLI
DV      TEHRI GARHWAL
HARYAiVA                b,"
PITHORAGARH                                                                             SRI LANKA
GARHWAL
ik                      SAHARANPUR
ALMORA
I                                                         INDIA
J       0 . .....
MUZAFFARNAG                                f4,,TI, Tf
UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC
MEERUT           BtJNO                                                                            TUBEWELLS 11 PROJECT
NAINITAL
PROJECT DISTRICTS
GHAZIABAD                            RAMPUR                                                                                                       D STR CTS
MORADABAD                                                                                                         MAIN PROJEC
I    PIL iIHIT
REILLY                                                                                   QTATE :API_AL
BULANDSHAHR                                                                         I A,                                          NATIOF-L li[WAYL,
IHARYANA
BUDAUN
V,\
r                                                                      "IS7RICT
STITI 11 11,C,111S
)MATHURA  k    AILIGA           ETAH      -A,   SHAHJAHA                                            8AHRAICH
M,"                                                      HARDOt
TAPUR
RAJAS-
THAAI                                                                                                              GONDA
Z;'-       AGRA               MAtN                                                k_.                                                   GORAKHPUR
J-8APA BANKI                                       t
UNNAO                                                                       ;\-   DE   A
FAtZABAD
MADHYA  PRADESH  <S
'ANPUR                                      SULTANPUR
JALAUN                                                                                                             /J
RAE BARELI
F                                                AZAMGARH
PRATAPGARH                                            BALLIA
JALJNPU                                    mh
HAMIRPUR                                                                                GHAZIPUR
IHANSI
ANDA
VARANAl
V-
\/4                                                            BIHAR
MADHYA PRADESH
MIRZAPUR
LALiTPUR
2A'
40       80        loo      10
KILOIFE
7 3-
FEBRUARY ?83



