OFIIAL         CREDIT NUMBER. 1332 IN
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Uttar Pradesh Public Tubevells Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1332 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                J/ -        , 1983, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter called
the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Uttar
Pradesh (hereinafter called Uttar Pradesh) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to Uttar Pradesh the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and Uttar
Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association    being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the State of Uttar Pradesh of even date herewith,


﻿- 2 -
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agree-
ments supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Project Area" means all of the districts of Uttar
Pradesh;
(c) "Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board" and "UPSEB"
mean the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board established
pursuant to the Borrower's Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, as
amended to the date of this Agreement; and
(d) "Concerned States" means any of the States of India
participating in carrying out Part J of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ninety one million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 91,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Pro-
ject Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
cf the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15, commencing June 15, 1993, and ending Decem-
ber 15, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on December 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall: (i) cause Uttar Pradesh to perform in


﻿accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth; (ii) carry out or cause the Con-
cerned States to carry out Part J of the Project; (iii) take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appro-
priate to enable Uttar Pradesh to perform such obligations, and
the Concerned States to carrying out Part J of the Project; and
(iv) not take or permit to be taken any action which would pre-
vent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the
table of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to Uttar Pradesh
for purposes of carrying out Parts A through I of the Project, in
accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for develop-
ment assistance to the States of India.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) make part of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to Category 5 set forth in the table of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to the Concerned States
for purposes of carrying out Part J of the Project, in accordance
with  the   Borrower's  standard  arrangements  for   development
assistance to the States of India; (ii) maintain or cause to be
maintained by the Concerned States records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the relevant
component of Part J of the Project; and (iii) cause the accounts
for each component of Part J of the Project to be audited in
accordance with the provision of Section 3.02 of the Project
Agreement as if the said provisions were applicable to the
Borrower and the Concerned States.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Uttar


﻿- 5 -
Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) Any of the Concerned States shall have failed to
perform any of its respective obligations regarding the carrying
out of Part J of the Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any of the events
specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower and Uttar Pradesh, or to the Borrower. as the case
may be.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorizec or ratified by Uttar Pradesh, and is
legally binding upon Uttar Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date     >        c2      , 1983 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.03. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary to the Department of
Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                        Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of. Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
fr0dT1 Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) Completed
tubewell
,systems                40,070,000        55%
(b) Completed
works under
Part C of
the Project              1,720,000        55%
(2) Equipment and
materials:
(a) Steel and poly           33,270,000        55%
vinyl chloride
pipes, casings
and fittings
(b) Equipment and             1,990,000        100% of local
vehicles for                              expenditures
Research and                              (ex-factory
Development,                              cost) and
Operation and                             70% of local
Maintenance,                              expenditures
Agricultural                              for other
Development,                              items pro-
and Monitoring                            cured locally
and Evaluation


﻿-8-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3) Agricultural                   3,630,000       60%
Development
Activities
(4) Research and                    730,000        60%
Development,
Monitoring and
Evaluation, and
Training
(5) Part J of the                  9,070,000       100%
Project
(6) Unallocated                    1,120,000
TOTAL                   91,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "completed tubewell system" means a tubewell
irrigation system constructed under Part A or D of the Project:
(i) which is certified to have been constructed and installed in
accordance with the planning, design and construction standards
and criteria provided for in Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement, and is energized; (ii) whose command area would be
proportional to the discharge during the yield test; and (iii)
whose discharge is not less than 70% of the design discharge; and


﻿-9-
(d) the term "completed works" means works carried out on
any tubewell under Part C of the Project which is certified to be
energized.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 2,300,000,
may be made in respect of Categories 1 and 2 on account of
expenditures made before that date but after September 15, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
iture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association


﻿- 10 -
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
PART A:
(i) Construction, installation, operation and maintenance
of about 2,000 tubewells with an improved design, each
capable of automatically discharging about 150 cubic
meters per hour to serve a command area of about 100
hectares.
(ii) Construction, installation, operation and maintenance
of about 200 tubewells with an improved design, each
capable of automatically discharging about 300 cubic
meters per hour to serve a command area of about 200
hectares.
(iii) Construction, operation, and maintenance of buried pipe
water distribution systems for each of the tubewells
under Parts A (i) and (ii) of this Schedule as well as
common field channels required to convey irrigation
water from the outlet valves of the buried pipe
distribution system to farmers' fields.
(iv) Construction of access roads from the existing feeder
road system to the tubewells under Parts A (i) and (ii)
of this Schedule.
PART B:   Installation of dedicated and independent electrical
power transmission lines to serve public tubewell
irrigation systems from substations in the Project Area
to the tubewells under Parts A, C and D of this
Schedule.
PART C:   Connection of about 650 existing tubewells in the
Project Area to independent electrical power transmis-
sion lines from the feeder lines under Part B of this
Schedule.
PART D:   Upgrading of about 100 existing tubewell irrigation
systems in the Project Area to the design standards of
the tubewell irrigation systems under Part A of this
Schedule.


﻿- 12 -
PART E:   Provision of vehicles and equipment for operation and
maintenance of the tubewell irrigation systems under
Parts A, C and D of this Schedule.
PART F:   Research and development of improved irrigation techno-
logies and techniques for public tubewell irrigation
systems.
PART G:   Monitoring  and   evaluation  of  tubewell   irrigation
systems constructed or upgraded under the Project and
of agricultural development performance in the command
areas of such tubewells.
PART H:   Training  of   required  irrigation  and  agricultural
development staff.
PART I:   Establishment of a program of agricultural development
support  in  the  command  areas  of  public   tubewell
irrigation  systems constructed or upgraded     to  the
improved design standards.
PART J:   Preparation of future irrigation projects in India.
T  P        *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1987.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  3         day of,)UA    ,
198-3
FOR SECRETARY


