Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15033-UA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
FEBRUARY 13, 1996
Municipal and Social Services Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September, 1995)
Currency Unit = Karbovanets
US$1 = 180,000 Kbn.
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Kbn per US$1
YEAR - RATE
1992 - 2,212
1993 - 7,623
1994 - 63,224
Sep.1995 - 180,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEU       -          City Executing Unit
EU        -         European Union
FSU       -          Former Soviet Union
GDP       -         Gross Domestic Product
ICB       -          International Competitive Bidding
NCB       -         National Competitive Bidding
PSC       -         Project Steering Committee
SA        -         Special Accounts
SCHME   -            State Committee For Housing and Municipal Economy
SCUDA   -           State Committee for Urban Development and Architecture
SOE       -          Statement of Expenditure
TG        -         Technical Group
USAID    -          United States Agency for International Development
UKRAINE - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
CONTENTS
Loan and Project Summary  .............................................                                                    i
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND .......................................... 1
A   The Housing Sector in Ukraine  ..........                       .........................   3
B. Government Housing Policy . ..................................... 4
C. Project Cities   ..............................................   4
D. Bank Housing Sector Strategy and Project Rationale  ......................   4
E. Bank Experience   ............................................   8
II. THE PROJECT ............................................... 9
A. Project Genesis  .............................................    9
B. Project Objectives ............................................   9
C. Project Description  . ..........................................   9
m. PROJECT COSTS AND  FINANCIAL ASPECTS    ..........................    13
A. Project Costs ..............................................    13
B. Financing Plan .............................................                                                14
C. Onlending Arrangements  .                .....................................    15
D. Pricing and Cost Recovery . .....................................  15
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . ..................................... 17
A. Project Implementation Plan  ...........                       .........................    17
B. Quality Control  ............................................    18
C. Procurement  ..............................................    19
D. Disbursement  .............................................                                                 22
E. Accounting and Auditing   .              .....................................    23
F. Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation  .............................    23
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND  RISKS  ...........                                .........................    25
A. Economic and Social Benefits  ..........                       .........................    25
B. Environmental Impact  .             .......................................    26
C. Participatory Approach . .......................................  26
D. Risks ................................................... 27
VI. AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  ............................   29
Tbis report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in July 1995 consisting of Y. Uchimura (Task Manager),
B. Inadze, EC4MS, 1. Harasymiak and K. Villani (consultants) and a post-appraisal mission in September 1995
consisting of Y. Uchimura, B. Imnadze, EC4MS, 1. Harasymiak and 0. Cherniahivsky (consultants). The peer
reviewers are L. Hannah, TWURD, and A. Nassau, EC31V. The Division Chief is T. Blinkhorn, EC4MS. The
Department Director is B. Kavalsky, EC4.



ANNEXES
A.  Housing Policy Concept Paper
B.  Summary of Housing Policy Measures
C.  Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
D.  Detailed Project Costs
E.  Project Cash Flows
F.  Detailed Procurement Arrangements
G.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
H.  Supervision Plan
1.  Economnic Analysis Summary
J.  Environmental Analysis
MAP          IBRD No. 27170
TABLES
Table 3.1 - Project Costs
Table 3.2 - Financing Plan
Table 4.1 - Procurement Arrangements
Table 4.2 - Disbursement Categories



UKRAINE
Housing Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Ukraine
Implementing Agency:   The City Administrations of Kharkiv, Lviv and Odesa.
The State Committee on Housing and Municipal Economy and the State
Committee on Urban Development and Architecture
Beneficiaries:         Households and private developers in Kharkiv, Lviv and
Odesa.
Poverty Category:      Not Applicable
Amount:                US$17.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 Payable in seventeen years, including five years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Conmitment Fee:        0.75 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:       The Bank loan funds will be onlent by the National Government to the
Project City Administrations in US dollars at the standard Bank terms and
conditions with a surcharge of I %.
Project Objectives:    The overall objective of the proposed Housing Project is to support the
development of a housing market to meet the housing needs of the people
of Ukraine. Specifically, the proposed project will aim to: (a) further
private ownership of housing and fully privatized apartment buildings by
selling all apartments financed by the loan to city residents; (b) promote
resident take over of the management and maintenance of their buildings
through formation of homeowners' (condominium) associations; (c)
encourage the growth of private housing developers by providing access to
land with infrastructure for housing construction and simplifying building
regulations; (d) pilot competitive bidding in selection of contractors; and (e)
further housing reform through policy studies.
Project Description:   The project will consist of completion of selected unfinished municipal
housing for sale to city residents in Lviv and Odesa, development of land
sites for sale to private developers for further residential construction in
Kharkiv and Lviv, housing policy studies and technical assistance for
project implementation and capacity building. The total project cost is
estimated to be US$27.9 million equivalent.



- ii -
Financing Plan:       A Bank loan of US$17.0 million will finance 61 % of total project cost net
of taxes (55% of costs including taxes) or 93% of the foreign costs and
42% of local costs. The loan will finance: (a) 80% of the housing
completion component incremental costs; (b) 80% of the land development
component incremental costs; and (c) 27% of the technical assistance
component. US$16.7 million, will be onlent to the project cities; US$0.3
million, will be made available to the national government for policy
studies and technical assistance. Counterpart funds will be provided by the
national government and the project city administrations.
ERR:                 25%
Map:                  IBRD 27170
Project ID Number:    UA-PA-34581



UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.The Housing Sector in Ukraine
1.1          The housing sector in Ukraine is going through a gradual process of transformation as
government control of the sector decreases and a market based housing system begins to slowly
emerge. These changes are the result of initial housing policy reforms aimed at development of
private markets and the gradual collapse of government control due to lack of funds.
1.2          Prior to 1993, the government dominated the housing sector. In 1992, local
governments owned 36% and other government agencies (primarily state enterprises) owned 25% of
housing in urban areas; the remaining urban housing was owned by housing cooperatives (6%) and
private individuals (33%)'. While the people have been provided with small plots for gardens and
second homes2, local governments exercised strict controls on the allocation of land and its use.
Maintenance of local government, enterprise and cooperative housing was carried out by municipal
housing maintenance organizations. Rents (along with water, heat and other municipal services) were
highly subsidized: rents and utilities were estimated to account for less than I % of household monthly
incomes in 1992. State construction enterprises built new housing or reconstructed old housing using
standard designs and norms.
1.3          The state allocation system has not been able to provide adequate housing for its
citizens. Space is limited: a Ukrainian citizen living in an urban area has an average of about 18 sq.
m. of housing space or about one-third that found in Western European countries (e.g. 32 sq. m. per
capita in London and Paris). High standardization leads to limited choice of housing types. Energy
efficiency was not a consideration given low Soviet energy prices, and buildings were constructed
with poor insulation of exterior walls and roofs, exposed metal joints and poor quality windows.
Construction quality was poor so that residents had to spend their time and resources reworking
doors, window frames, finishing and other interior work to compensate for the poor workmanship.
1.4          Under the Communist system, families with less than 5 sq. m. of housing space per
person or who were considered priority (e.g. the handicapped, war veterans) became eligible for new
housing free of charge from the government and were registered on the wait list. In 1992, there were
2.1 million families (or approximately 18% of total urban households) on the government housing
wait list in urban areas. Families with less than 9 sq. m. per person became eligible for cooperative
housing and were put on a separate cooperative housing wait list. Instead of obtaining free housing,
families on the cooperative wait list were grouped together and required to make a down payment of
25 % of construction cost with the govermment providing a loan through state banks for the remaining
75% at 1.5% to 2.0% interest per annum to be repaid over 50 years. The completed building was
owned by the cooperative who contracted with the municipal housing maintenance organization for
management and maintenance at subsidized govermnent rates. In 1992, there were over 500,000
families on the cooperative wait list for urban areas.
1/. The level of private ownership is higher in the rural areas where 91 % of the housing is reported to be owred by
individual families.
2/. 0.10 hectare per person in urban areas and 0.25 hectares per person in rural areas.



1.5          The system of government controlled housing is breaking down. The economic
recession reduced the amount of government funds allocated to housing construction. As a result,
construction of most municipal, state enterprise and cooperative housing has come to a stand still.
Unfinished housing sites, with partially erected buildings and cranes standing idle, can be seen in the
major urban areas of Ukraine.
1.6          A market for real estate in the urban areas, although limited, is slowly emerging.
Following the start of housing privatization in 19933, people began to privatize their apartments and
exchange or sell them to adjust housing to their current needs. Initially, direct exchanges were
predominant but increasingly more apartments are being sold. Real estate brokers are emerging to
link potential sellers with buyers. In Kharkiv, transactions of privatized apartments increased from
4,970 (approximately 1 % of the estimated number of residential units in the city) in 1993 to 15,727
(approximately 3 %) in 1994. In Kiev, 24,931 real estate transactions (approximately 1 % of the
estimated number of residential units) were recorded during the first nine months of 1994.
Apartments in better locations, such as the city center or with good access to transportation, are
commanding higher prices: e.g. apartments in downtown Kiev sell for around US$400 per sq. m.
compared to US$270 per sq. m. in less attractive locations. Most real estate transactions are carried
out in US dollars with the entire payment made in cash at the time of sale.
1.7          Housing developers are beginning to emerge in the construction industry. Some
construction enterprises are now building housing for sale to individual households in response to
major cutbacks in government sponsored construction. Many groups are beginning to operate as
developers, displaying an entrepreneurial spirit. These include builders from the former state building
"complex", construction "brigades" from both state and enterprise construction groups and individuals
from other professions seeking to enter the building (housing) industry. As a result, there is
increasing competition among housing construction enterprises and a market for new housing is
developing, primarily for larger, more luxurious apartments targeted at the higher incomes.
However, financing is a constraint. Construction is carried out on a "pay as you go" basis. In most
cases, financing is provided by the potential buyers who are asked to make a down payment and
additional payments in line with progress on construction.
1.8          The housing market in Ukraine still remains limited and faces several constraints.
First, lack of financing (for both households for home purchases and developers for housing
construction) remains an obstacle to growth of the housing market. Given the high price to income
ratios for housing, many families cannot afford to pay all cash, as is the current practice, and will
need access to long term loans to purchase an apartment. Second, land in the urban areas remains
under the control of local governments who allocate development rights to enterprises and other
groups interested in utilizing specific sites. Third, excessive local government land and building
regulations act as a disincentive to real estate development. Developers have to go through multiple
reviews of their investment proposals before permits are issued allowing them to start construction.
While regulation is required to protect the public interest (e.g. building safety, environmental impact
and cultural preservation), some of these reviews are duplicative and not necessarily transparent; they
create uncertainty and undue delays.
3/ Housing reform is discussed in Section B below.



-3 -
B. Government Housing Policy
1.9            Housing privatization was one of the earlier reforms started by the Government. The
Law on the Privatization of State Owned Housing in Ukraine was passed in June 1992 and became
operational in early 1993. Under the law, a Ukrainian citizen is entitled to receive free of charge 21
sq. m. of floor space per person within the apartment they currently rent from the government. In
addition, each family is entitled to another 10 sq. m. of floor space free4. Housing privatization has
proceeded at a slow but relatively steady pace. As of September 1, 1995, approximately two million
apartments had been privatized, or about 32% of all apartments targeted for privatization.
Privatization of individual apartments has resulted in both state owned and private apartments mixed
together in the same building. Municipal housing and maintenance companies continue to be
responsible for the management and maintenance of the building and common areas.
1.10           In 1994, the Government of President Kuchma embarked upon a program of
economic reform which includes elements which impact on the housing sector. A critical reform is
the phasing out of subsidies for housing, heating, hot water, water and sewerage and gas5. The
increase in cost recovery for state housing will reduce one of the disincentives to housing
privatization. The Government is also preparing a draft Law on Land and Property Registration
setting out procedures for registering rural and urban land and property which would address some of
the shortcomings of the Land Code of 1992 which permitted private ownership of land. The Bank is
supporting these and other structural reforms through the Rehabilitation Loan (Loan 3831, approved
by the Board on December 22, 1994).
1.11           In April 1995, the Government issued a Housing Policy Paper ("the Concept of the
State Housing Policy for Ukraine") which advocates a market based approach to housing
development. The paper acknowledges the limitations of the previous central planning approach to
housing provision and states the need to move towards a market oriented housing system. One of the
principal objectives of the new policy is to "create conditions for every citizen to build, purchase or
rent housing according to his or her choice, needs and opportunities". The government's role will be
transformed from that of the primary builder and owner of housing to an indirect role of developing
housing finance systems, providing assistance to low income households and promoting energy
conservation measures in buildings, encouraging private investment in the construction industry,
promoting housing privatization and expanding homeowner management and maintenance of housing.
The paper lays out the overall direction of housing policy, forms part of the Government's economic
reform program and will be used as a reference to revise existing housing legislation and issue new
legislation. The paper was approved by the Supreme Rada on June 30, 1995. An English translation
of the Housing Policy Paper is attached as Annex A.
1.12           At the local level, reform oriented city administrations have been undertaking pilot
demonstration activities to promote housing reform within their cities with assistance from USAID.
Kharkiv and Odesa Cities have piloted privatization of whole buildings and are experimenting with the
4/ If their apartment is larger than the free allocation, the family can pay for the extra space or apply for a smaller apartmnent.
If the apartment is smaller than the free allocation, the family is entitled to be compensated by the government for the
difference.
5/ In October 1994, the Government issued Cabinet of Ministers Decree No. 733 which provided for increased cost recovery
of housing, heating, hot water, water and sewerage and gas to 20% of production costs in October 1994 and to 60% by July
1995. Actual implementation has been delayed: cost recovery was increased to 40% of production costs at end June 1995 and
is now scheduled to reach 60% in January 1996.



- 4 -
organization of condominium associations to allow residents to take over management and
maintenance of their building. In Kharkiv, a pilot project to contract out building management and
maintenance was carried out in order to introduce competition in the provision of management
services. The International Finance Corporation has also been working with the State Property Fund
in developing condominiums as part of its small scale privatization efforts because many shops are
located in mixed residential-commercial buildings. The Government is following up on these
activities and is mainstreaming condominium formation by issuing Cabinet of Ministers Decree No.
5886 in July 1995 mandating the formation of condominium associations. Efforts to organize
condominium associations will continue in these cities. Land auctions were carried out in Kharkiv,
Odesa, Lviv and Chernihiv in 1994 which provided buyers with 50 year leases (with the priority to
renew for another 50 years) to commercial and residential lots and gasoline stations. The
Government is expanding the land auction program to other cities in Ukraine and issued Presidential
Decree No. 608/95 "On Privatization and Lease of Non-Agricultural Land Sites for the Purpose of
Economic Activity" in July 1995.
1.13          Project preparation was carried out in the cities of Kharkiv, Lviv and Odesa which
were targeted for inclusion in the Bank project because of their commitment to housing sector reformn
and the willingness of the city administrations to carry out alternatives to central planning and state
allocation of housing.
C. The Project Cities
1.14          The project will be implemented in the cities of Kharkiv, Odesa and Lviv. Kharkiv,
with a population of 1.6 million in 1994, is the second largest city in Ukraine. It is located in the
eastern part of the country, close to the border with Russia. It was one of the major military
industrial centers in the former Soviet Union and is home to heavy industrial enterprises as well as
several research institutes. Odesa, with a population of 1.1 million in 1994, is the fifth largest city in
Ukraine. Located on the Black Sea, it is a mnajor port as well as a regional industrial center; during
the sunmmer months, it is a popular resort for local tourists and vacationers. Lviv, with a population
of 0.8 million in 1994, is the seventh largest city in Ukraine. It is located in the western part of
Ukraine, close to Poland. Both Odesa and Lviv have international airports; Lviv with a direct
comection to Poland and Odesa with a direct connection to Austria, Germany and Russia. All three
cities have been hit by economic decline, but, as major regional economic centers, are expected to
recover once economic growth resumes in Ukraine. The location of the cities are shown in Map No.
IBRD 27170, attached to this report.
D. Bank Housing Sector Strategv and Proiect Rationale
1.15          The housing sector is a critical element in the transition to a market economy and will
play an important role in the development of the Ukrainian economy. Reducing government housing
construction and maintenance subsidies will have a positive impact on the government budgetary
deficit and overall macro economic stabilization. One study estimated that government assistance for
6/ Cabinet of Ministers Decree No. 588 "On the Approval of Regulations on the Organization and Operation of Associations
Set Up by the Owners for Management and Maintenance and Use of Common Property in Residential Buildings", July 31,
1995.



housing, water, heat and other utilities accounted for around 20% of GDP in 1993'. Policy reform
will require, among other things, increased household involvement in selection, management and
maintenance of housing. Housing reform will support growth of industrial and commercial
enterprises. Improved access to housing facilitates labor mobility and encourages industrial
adjustment as people move in search of better economic opportunities during the transition period.
Household takeover of management responsibility will support the privatization of state enterprises by
relieving them of the obligation to construct and maintain enterprise housing. Growth of a real estate
market will allow for greater flexibility in constructing offices and other commercial buildings in
urban areas and will, in turn, allow them to function as dynamic service and information centers.
Housing can provide an attractive investment for households and provide motivation for savings.
Finally, cramped quarters and poor quality of housing are seen by the people as one of the more
visible shortcomings of the central planning system. Better housing will provide tangible results of
the alternatives to central planning and will help to sustain momentum for economic reform.
1.16          The basic objective of the Bank's housing sector strategy in Ukraine is to support and
accelerate the development of the newly emerging housing market. A housing market will require:
(a) development of a housing finance system to provide long term loans for the purchase,
construction and rehabilitation of apartments and homes; (b) growth of builders, housing management
and maintenance companies, real estate firms and agents to service the needs of the households; and
(c) establishment of a policy and legal framework which will establish and protect property rights,
safeguard contracts, provide for the timely provision of infrastructure and municipal services, and
assist the poor in meeting their basic shelter needs. The role of the government will shift from being
an owner and direct supplier of housing to creating a regulatory environment that will allow
households, builders, real estate firms and other actors to interact, and protecting the poor and other
socially vulnerable groups and assisting them in meeting their basic shelter needs. The sectoral
objectives, actions taken to date and further actions required are presented in tabular form in Annex
B.
1.17          Development of a housing market is an integral part of the transformation of the
economy as a whole and the sequencing of housing reform measures will depend on progress on the
overall reform program and stabilization of the economy. While provision of housing finance is
essential to enhance the affordability and generate demand for housing, local financial institutions are
reluctant to make long term housing loans to households when inflation and nominal interest rates are
high and there is legal uncertainty over their ability to use housing as collateral for their loans.
Measures to promote housing lending to households are contingent upon economic stabilization and
development of banking laws, collateral laws and the pace of financial sector development so, despite
its importance, housing finance development will emerge only after these essential preconditions are
established and this will occur at a later stage in Ukraine's economic transformation. Similarly, the
growth of construction and buildings materials companies will be addressed as part of the
Government's enterprise privatization and development program. Efforts to promote the housing
market will be coordinated with other Government economic reforms supported by the Bank,
7/ Ira Lowry, 'Housing Reform in Ukraine: Moving From a Socialist System to a Market System", USAID/Padco, February
1994.



- 6 -
specifically those in economic stabilization, enterprise privatization, financial sector development, land
reform and social safety net through a series of ongoing and proposed projects'.
1.18            Initially, emphasis will be on smaller Bank projects (limited in scope, amount and
geographical coverage) to demonstrate market based alternatives, promote key reform measures and
provide technical assistance to initiate further policy development. These projects would be followed
by projects, the scope, timing and scale of which will depend upon the progress made on overall
economic stabilization and structural reforms, reforms within the housing sector and experience under
the earlier projects. Change is expected to be slow in the beginning given lack of depth of the
emerging private enterprises, peoples' attitudes towards change and time required for new market
oriented systems and institutions to be fully established and functional.
1.19            The proposed Housing Project is envisioned as the first in a series of housing
projects. The project will work with reform minded city administrations to foster housing reform and
housing development at the local level by: (i) promoting private ownership of housing and
homeowner management of multi-family buildings; (ii) improving construction enterprises' access to
land for housing development; and (iii) introducing competition in the selection of contractors for
local government contracts. In order to participate in the project, the city administrations have agreed
to:
(a)     Sell unfinished housing completed through the project, breaking with the past policy of
allocating housing to families on the wait list. Buildings financed through the Bank project
will be fully privatized (i.e. all the apartments will be privately owned) and the residents,
through their condominium associations, will be responsible for managing and maintaining
their building.
(b)     Increase housing developers' access to land by continuing with the land auction programs
initiated under assistance from USAID (para. 1.12) and selling land developed under the
project in Kharkiv and Lviv. Preparation of a land auction program for 1996 and 1997 were
a condition of negotiations, (para. 6.1) and adoption of the program will be a condition in the
subsidiary loan agreements with the project cities.
(c)     Review and simplify, where appropriate, land and building regulations at the city level with
support from consultants funded under the technical assistance component of the project.
Simplification of the existing review and approval procedures should facilitate greater private
sector investment in urban real estate.
(d)     Select contractors for completion of the unfinished buildings and construction of infrastructure
through competitive bidding, rather than through assignment by the city administration. This
is a standard Bank requirement but it will be the first time that the city administrations (and
the local construction companies) will experience open competition in the selection of
contractors for local government construction works.
8/ Specific operations include: (a) the ongoing Rehabilitation Loan (Loan No. 3831) and the proposed Enterprise Development
Adjustment Loan which support the Government's enterprise privatization program; (b) the proposed Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan and the proposed Financial Institution Development Loan which would strengthen the policy and legal
framework for bank operations and provide private developers with access to investment financing; (c) the proposed
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and Land Registration Loan which would address property rights, private ownership of
land and land administration; and (d) the proposed Social Protection Adjustment Loan which would strengthen the social safety
net for the poor.



-7-
The above agreements were confirmed during negotiations and reflected in the legal documents (para.
6.2).
1.20         The project will also lay the basis for further housing policy reform and future
projects at the national level. The Housing Policy Concept Paper expresses the Government's intent
to move towards a housing market, but there are two key areas where additional analytical work
needs to be carried out and specific policies developed. The Policy Concept Paper makes reference to
low interest loans to promote homeownership, continued government housing support for low income
families and other policy measures. However, these measures are not developed in detail and no
consideration is given whether they are sustainable given the fiscal constraints faced by the
Government. Families will need to be provided with long term financing if they are to purchase
housing which is typically several times annual household incomes. The institutional arrangements
and measures needed to developed a housing finance system would need to be considered as part of
the overall financial sector development. While the Policy Concept Paper points out the need for a
housing finance system, it does not include specific recommendations on the action the Government
will need to take. Studies on the review of government support for housing and development of
housing finance will be included in the technical assistance component of the project (para. 2. 11).
1.21         The Bank's strategy in Ukraine supports the Government's structural reform agenda
with special emphasis on private sector development, public sector restructuring, social protection and
poverty alleviation, and environmental protection. The proposed housing project will promote the
growth of private real estate developers by improving access to land for housing construction and
simplifying and making transparent building regulations and procedures to facilitate start up of real
estate investments. Local construction enterprises will also gain experience in tendering by
participating in the procurement training to be carried out as part of project implementation. The
project will promote private ownership of housing and reduction local government's role by
completing and selling unfinished municipal housing. The technical assistance studies will lay the
foundations for future development of the housing market and a less direct role for the government in
the housing sector. This project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for
Ukraine.
1.22         The project is also part of the Bank's strategy to improve public sector management at
the local level and increase local autonomy. City administrations are in a better position to gauge
local priorities and are expected to play a larger role in the delivery of basic infrastructure and
municipal services. The cities have taken the lead in project development and will be given control
over project implementation. Lviv and Odesa are also considered for participation in the Bank's
proposed Urban Transport Project and Municipal Water Supply Project. These projects will allow the
Bank to establish working relationships with officials at the local level and be more aware of the
needs of residents in the regional cities.



- 8 -
E. Bank Experience
1.23           The Bank has limited experience lending to Ukraine9 and for housing in Eastern
Europe. There are only three housing projects under implementation in Eastern Europe: (i) the
Poland Housing Project (Loan 3499-PL), approved in June 1992, which provides financing through
local banks for mortgages and housing construction; (ii) the Albania Housing Project (Credit 2534-
AL), approved in July 1993, focusing on completion of unfinished housing through a national agency
(the National Housing Authority) created through the project; and (iii) the Russia Housing Project
(Loan 3850-RU), approved in March 1995, which provides financing for land development, housing
construction and building materials industry development. The different approaches taken in these
projects reinforce the need to design projects according to the needs and level of transition in the
respective countries. The Albanian project, which is similar to this project, points to the risk that the
cities may go back on their commitment to market housing and allocate them to households on the
municipal housing wait list and/or continue their role as housing developers. The project addresses
these concerns by focusing on those city administrations which have undertaken and agreed to housing
reforms and promoting private developers through increased access to land and changes in housing
regulations.
2/ Tle Bank is still in the process of building its portfolio in Ukraine. The Institution Building Loan (a technical assistance
project) and the Rehabilitation Loan (a policy loan) are under active implemnentation. Two additional loans, the Agricultural
Seeds Development Loan and the Hydropower Rehabilitation Loan became effective in September 1995.



-9 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Genesis
2.1          Project preparation was carried out jointly with the State Committee on Housing and
Municipal Economy (SCHME), the State Committee on Urban Development and Architecture
(SCUDA) and the project cities. Initial discussions on developing a housing project were held with
the Government in 1993. The cities of Kharkiv, Lviv and Odesa were selected as possible project
cities because of their support for housing reform and interest in attempting alternative, market based
approaches to housing provision.
B. Proiect Objectives
2.2          The overall objective of the proposed Housing Project is to support the development
of a housing market to meet the housing needs of the people of Ukraine. Specifically, the proposed
project will aim to: (a) further private ownership of housing and fully privatized apartment buildings
by selling all apartments financed by the loan to city residents; (b) promote resident take over of the
management and maintenance of their buildings through formation of homeowners' (condominium)
associations; (c) encourage the growth of private housing developers by providing access to land with
infrastructure for housing construction and simplifying building regulations; (d) pilot competitive
bidding in selection of contractors; and (e) further housing reform through national policy studies.
C. Project Description
2.3          The project will consist of completion of unfinished housing, development of land
sites for further residential construction, housing policy studies and technical assistance for project
implementation and capacity building. It will include the following components:
(i)    Housing Completion (US$16.7 million of which US$14.3 million is incremental):
Completion of the unfinished city housing stock for sales to private households in
Lviv and Odesa;
(ii)   Land Development (US$10.0 million of which US$6.6 million is incremental):
Provision of off-site infrastructure to develop serviced land for sale to private
developers for housing construction in Kharkiv and Lviv; and
(iii)   Technical Assistance (US$1.2 million): Financing for housing policy and land and
building regulations studies and consultancies and training to assist with the project
implementation both at the national and local levels.
The project will finance completion of a large portion of the existing stock of unfinished municipal
housing in the project cities. During negotiations, the Government's commnitment to encourage the
growth of private developers and the project cities' commitment to promote competition in the
housing sector in their respective cities were confirmed and incorporated into the Project Agreements
(para. 6.2). Provision of infrastructure and promotion of private housing developers are new
undertakings for the cities in Ukraine and are more in line with the role of local governments in a
market economy. The possibility of auctioning the uncompleted buildings directly to the private
developers was considered but dropped because developers would still face difficulties in mobilizing



- 10-
the necessary funds to complete buildings and did not show strong interest to take over partially
completed buildings. Construction financing is expected to be made available to developers
subsequently through financial institutions with support from other Bank loans'° so that this should not
be as serious a constraint when land sites developed through the project will be marketed in the latter
part of 1997 and early 1988.
Housing Completion Component
2.4           Construction of municipal housing has stopped or slowed down significantly in most
cities in Ukraine because of lack of funding. The buildings are in different stages of construction,
some have only site preparation and foundations completed while other have structures erected but the
interior work and mechanical equipment is yet to be installed. A significant amount of city resources
have gone into construction of these buildings. If left to the elements, work done to date would
deteriorate to the point of being unsalvageable. Although based on standard government designs,
improvements can be made to interior layout design of the buildings and insulation to improve energy
efficiency, making the apartments more attractive to potential buyers.
2.5           All apartments completed under the project will be sold to city residents at market
prices. The buyers will form condominium associations to jointly manage the building and be
responsible for repairs and maintenance. Sales of completed housing and homeowner management of
the buildings will be a significant break from past practices where housing was allocated to families
on the wait list and management and maintenance was carried out by municipal maintenance
organizations for a nominal fee. The housing wait list continues to be political issue for both national
and city governments. A study on government support for the housing sector, included in the
technical assistance component of the project, will assist the government develop alternative measures
to promote home ownership and address the housing needs of low income groups in lieu of
government allocation of housing.
2.6           The project will finance completion of the following municipal housing in the Cities
of Lviv and Odesa:
(i)    Lviv City: Six partially constructed municipal residential buildings will be completed
at Lysynichi district for a total of around 500 apartments with 30,000 sq.m. gross
area of space. The estimated cost of completion is US$4.9 million. The six buildings
constitute only part of the site and the remaining area will be sold to private
developers for housing construction (see para. 2.9).
(ii)    Odesa City: The project will finance completion of seven residential buildings for a
total of around 520 apartments with about 31,000 sq.m. gross area of space. The
estimated cost of completion is US$9.4 million.
2.7           All buildings selected are located in areas with relatively convenient access to
employment, commercial areas, recreational and other urban facilities. The Lysynichi site in Lviv is
a new housing development located on the northern fringe of the city but still within 6 Ian. of the city
center. The seven buildings to be completed in Odesa are located in Vuzovsky, Yuzhny and
Moldovanka districts in the southern part of the city in established neighborhoods. The city center
lO/ The proposed Ukraine Financial Institution Development Loan will mnake financing available to enterprises, including
construction firms, for investment projects.



- 11 -
and southern parts of Odesa, where many of the beaches on the Black Sea and recreational facilities
are located, are considered to be the more desirable residential areas. Prior to negotiations, the city
admninistrations confirmed their ownership of the sites and buildings to be financed through the loan
(para. 6.1).
Land Development Component
2.8           One of the major constraints to residential construction in Ukraine is lack of access by
private developers to land. Furthermore, due to sharply reduced investments of the Government,
many land sites which could have been attractive for residential construction stay idle because of a
lack of main infrastructure. The project will address this problem by financing trunk infrastructure
(water, drainage, heating, electricity, gas, roads etc.) and selling serviced land to private developers.
The developers will construct housing and onsite infrastructure, hooking up to the trunk infrastructure
financed through the project. The sites will be zoned for low rise residential development and the
developers will be provided flexibility in developing their individual sites.
2.9           The project will finance infrastructure provision for the following sites in Kharkiv and
Lviv:
(i).    Kharkiv City: Water, sewerage, drainage, heating, electricity, gas, roads and other
off-site infrastructure facilities for development of about 65,000 sq.m. of land adjacent
to Shevchenko Street of which about 60,000 sq. m. will be sold to developers for
low-rise housing construction. The estimated cost of development is US$2.0 million.
(ii)    Lviv City: Water, sewerage, gas, electricity, heating, road and other off-site
infrastructure facilities for the development of approximately 87,000 sq.m. of land,
of which 50,000 sq.m. can be sold to developers for residential construction in
Lysynichi district. Part of this infrastructure has already been constructed and the
project will finance the missing links. Total cost of infrastructure provision is
estimated to be US$4.6 million.
2.10           The proposed site in Kharkiv is well located with ready access to tram and bus lines,
social facilities, urban amenities and a recreational area with an artificial lake. The tram and bus
lines connect the site also with a subway station 2.4 km. away from the site. The site is located
among well developed residential areas and has trunk infrastructure readily available. The Lysynichi
in Lviv was discussed in para. 2.7 above. Prior to negotiations, the city administrations confirmed
their ownership of the sites to be financed through the loan (para. 6.1).
Technical Assistance Component
2.11          The project will include financing for housing policy studies, a land and building
regulations study and consultancies and training to assist with the project implementation both at the
national and local levels. Specific activities will include:
(i)    Housing Policy Studies:  Studies will be carried out to follow up on key aspects of
the Government's Housing Policy Concept Paper (para. 1.20):
a)     Review of Government Assistance for Housing (US$100,000): The
Government's Housing Policy Concept mentions the need for govermnent



- 12 -
assistance for people on the wait list and low income families. A key concern
will be the level of government support (subsidies) and hence the sustainability
of these policies, especially in view of the government's inability in the past to
adequately fund its housing programs and the tight budget situation expected
in the immediate future (as many demands are made on government resources
during the transition period). Alternative policy measures would need to be
examined to develop cost effective policy packages which would provide
maximum impact but stay within financing limits set by the tight budget. The
study will also explore ways of addressing previous commitments of the
Govermnent linked to the large stock of unfinished housing, part of which was
pre-allocated to the people on the waiting list.
b)    Housing Finance Development (US$100,000): A system of housing finance
will need to be developed to provide households with access to long tern
financing for housing purchase and developers with construction financing.
Specific characteristics of housing require a strategy be developed for housing
finance. For example, mortgage lending involves a large number of relatively
small loans made to households. Longer maturities of mortgage lending
requires that lenders explore the option of tapping capital markets and
traditional sources of long term financing (such as pension funds) for
financing; the small size of individual loans requires that special institutional
arrangements may need to be developed to allow originators of home
mortgages to tap into capital markets.
(ii)   Land and Building Regulations Studies (US$100,000): The existing overly complex
and non transparent system of real estate project review and approval constrains
growth of private developers and limits private financing of residential and
commercial construction. The study will review the exiting system and propose
simplifications and modifications to review and approval procedures.
(iii)   Assistance to the Project Implementation (US$900,000): There is only very limited
experience in Ukraine, both on national and local levels, with implementation of
World Bank financed projects. Outside assistance and training will be provided to
local and central government officials in procurement procedures, financial
management and other aspects of project implementation, monitoring and evaluation
and beneficiary assessment.
The housing policy and land regulation studies are expected to be completed by end 1996. The
results of the policy studies would be incorporated as appropriate in the Bank's dialogue with the
Government and reflected in the future assistance program. The results of the land and building
regulations study will be implemented by city adrninistrations in their efforts to simplify land and
building development procedures (para 1.19). The outcome of these studies and follow up action will
be taken up during the formal mid-term implementation review. The outline of terms of reference for
the above technical assistance is provided in Annex C.



- 13 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Project Costs
3.1          Total project cost is estimated to be US$27.9 million equivalent, excluding local taxes
and including cost of works already financed by the city administrations on selected buildings/sites.
The project costs are summarized in Table 3.1. All estimates are presented in US dollar equivalents
in order to minimize distortions resulting from fluctuating exchange and inflation rates. Base costs
are shown in September 1995 prices. Physical contingencies of 15% were used for civil works.
Price contingencies have been estimated using Bank: (a) international inflation estimates, 1996 -
1.8%, 1997 - 2.6%, 1998 - 2.5%; and (b) domestic inflation estimates 1996 - 55%, 1997 - 19%,
1998 - 13%. The local currency, the Karbovanets, is projected to appreciate in real terms and these
changes are incorporated in the price contingencies. The sunk costs are estimated on the basis of
recorded past expenditures and converted into US dollar equivalent according to the exchange rate at
the time when expenditures occurred. Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex D.
TABLE 3.1: Project Costs
Millions of US$
Forex   Base
Local  Foreign   Total           Cost
A. Housing Completion                        5.8      4.8    10.6      45      47
B. Land Development                          2.8      2.2      5.0     45      22
C. Sunk Costs                                5.9        -      5.9      -      26
C. Technical Assistance                      0.2      1.0      1.2     80       5
Base Costs (in September 1995 prices)       14.7      8.0    22.7      35      100
Physical Contingencies                      1.3      1.0      2.3     45       10
Price Contingencies                         1.5      1.4      2.9     47       13
Total Project Costs                         17.5     10.4    27.9      36      123



- 14 -
B. Financing Plan
3.2          A Bank loan of US$17.0 million will finance 61% of total project costs net of taxes
(55% of costs including taxes) or 93% of the foreign costs and 42% of local costs. The loan to
Ukraine will be payable in 17 years including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate with level repayments of principal. The loan will finance: (a) 80% of the housing completion
component incremental costs; (b) 80% of the land development component incremental costs; and (c)
27% of the technical assistance component not financed through grants from other bi-lateral and
multi-lateral sources. Most of the Bank loan, US$16.7 million, will be onlent to the project cities for
the housing completion and land development components: Kharkiv - US$1.5 million; Lviv - US$7.6
million; and Odesa - US$7.6 million. The remainder, US$0.3 million, will be made available to the
national government for the technical assistance component. The financing plan is presented in Table
3.2.
3.3          Counterpart funds will be provided by the project city administrations and the national
government (for the technical assistance component). The city administrations will finance: (a) 20%
of the costs of the housing completion component incremental costs; and (b) 20% of the costs of the
land development component incremental costs. All sunk costs have been financed by the city
administrations and constitute part of their counterpart contribution. The counterpart funding for the
technical assistance component will be provided by the national government and the project cities
utilizing other multi-lateral grant sources available for housing policy development (for foreign costs)
and local budget funds (for local consultants and other local costs). All applicable taxes related to the
project will likewise be financed by the national government and city administrations. Total taxes are
estimated to be US$4.2 million.
TABLE 3.2: Financing Plan
(in US$ millions)
Bank    Local Cont.    Total
Loan
Housing Completion               11.5        5.1         16.6
Land Development                 5.2         4.9         10.1
Technical Assistance             0.3         0.9          1.2
Total                            17.0       10.9         27.9



- 15 -
C. Onlending Arrangements
Legal Arrangements
3.4           The onlending arrangement for the Housing Completion and Land Development
Components would be as follows:
(i)    The Bank would enter into a Project Agreement with each project city administration.
The Project Agreement will, among others: define scope of the city investment
program, outline the implementation and review requirements, and incorporate actions
to be carried out by the city administrations and other city level conditionalities.
(ii)    The Government of Ukraine would enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each
project city administration. The Subsidiary Loan Agreements will incorporate, among
others: the loan amount for each city, the use of funds, on-lending terms and
conditions, adoption of the 1996-97 land auction program and sub-loan effectiveness
conditions, if any.
Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with two of the three project
cities will be a condition for project effectiveness. Signing of the third subsidiary loan agreement will
be a condition of disbursement for that city. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations and
reflected in the Loan Agreement (paras. 6.3 and 6.4).
Onlending Terms and Conditions
3.5           The National Government will onlend funds directly to the project city administrations
on the Banks' terms and conditions with a spread of 1% to cover the administrative costs and risk
associated with the onlending to cities. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the project cities.
The national government will bear the cross currency risk and the sub-loans will be denominated in
US Dollars. These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations and reflected in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements ( para. 6.2).
D. Pricing and Cost Recovery
3.6           The cost of the completed housing and developed land financed through the project
will be recovered through sales. The apartments and land will be sold at market prices; the
apartments at estimated market values and the land through auctions. Buyers will be required to
make full payment at the time of purchase which is currently the practice in the real estate market in
Ukraine. The sales prices of completed apartments in current prices are estimated to average
US$14,000 per apartment in Lviv and range between US$17,000 to US$48,000 per apartment in
Odesa depending on the building and are estimated to cover the incremental investment costs. These
prices are in line with the existing price of similar apartments in Lviv and Odesa. A comparison of
the projected sales prices and market prices is provided in Annex 1. Land sales prices in current
prices are projected to be US$ 25 to 33 per sq. m. in Lviv and US$31 per sq. m. in Kharkiv. There
is very little experience with land sales in Ukraine so it is not possible to compare the projected prices
with actual sales prices. However, the land auction program will generate information on land sales
prices so that the city will be in a better position to determine the marketability of the land developed
under the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the respective city administrations



- 16 -
will prepare a marketing plan for the apartments and land, by end June 1997, prior to the completion
of construction. The plan will include, among others, the proposed method of sales (auction or fixed
price sales), advertisement and promotion, administration of sales (agencies responsible,
documentation required, etc), and sales prices (or minimum prices in case of auctions) by apartment
unit or land parcel and, for buildings, provisions for formation of homeowner associations. This was
reflected in the Project Agreement (para. 6.2).
3.7            The debt service requirements of the project are projected not to have a significant
impact on the project city finances. The cash flow projections for the investment components in each
city are presented in Annex E. The maximum loan repayment will occur in the sixth year after loan
effectiveness, i.e. after the expiration of the grace period. The loan repayments in the sixth year are
estimated to be less than 1.5%  of the 1995 budget expenditures in Lviv and Odesa and less than 0.1 %
in Kharkiv".
.L/ Even under a worst case scenario where the cities were not able to recover any costs from sales, the city will be able to
service its debt obligations.



- 17 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Implementation Plan
4.1            Overall project oversight and policy coordination will be assigned to a national level
Project Steering Committee which will be supported by a small technical group. Implementation and
management of the Housing Completion and Land Development Components will be carried out by
the project city administrations. The Ministry of Finance will oversee the implementation of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and repayment of subloans to the project cities. Respective roles and
functions of these entities are described below.
Project Steering Committee (PSC)
4.2            The Project Steering Committee will be responsible for oversight of project
implementation, coordination and policy guidance. The PSC will be co-chaired by the chairmen (or
deputy chairmen) of the State Committee on Urban Development and Architecture (SCUDA) and the
State Committee for Housing and Municipal Economy (SCHME) and will also include representatives
of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the participating
cities. SCUDA and SCHME are two sector agencies in Ukraine with SCUDA responsible for all
issues related to construction"2, including residential construction, and SCHME responsible for overall
housing policy and supervising maintenance of the existing municipal housing stock. The PSC will
meet on a monthly basis or upon request of its members to analyze project implementation,
recommend corrective measures for problem areas, share experience among cities, and, where
necessary, inform and seek guidance from higher level officials on project related issues. A proposal
to establish the PSC has been drafted and is being reviewed by the Government. The PSC was
formally established in January 1996 prior to negotiations (para. 6.1).
4.3            A small Technical Group (TG) will be attached to the PSC to oversee implementation
of the project. The TG will: (i) provide administrative support to the PSC; (ii) based on quarterly
reports from the CEUs (para 4.5), prepare consolidated quarterly progress reports for the PSC and
the Bank; (iii) coordinate preparation of the annual project audits; and (iv) implement the technical
assistance component of the project and coordinate assistance to the project cities, including assistance
in procurement and disbursement procedures, training of local officials. In order to overcome
absence of necessary expertise in project management and, particularly, procurement, necessary
technical assistance will be provided to the TG on these aspects.
City Executing Units (CEU)
4.4            Several departments in the city administration are involved in housing and land
management at the local level and will play a role in implementation of the project. Housing
Departments arc responsible for maintenance and rehabilitation of existing municipal and cooperative
housing. Capital Construction Departments are responsible for new construction. They do not carry
out any actual construction themselves but act as the procurement arm of the city administration,
organizing construction enterprises, supervising construction works and certifying completed buildings
12/ Until recently, SCUDA was directly involved in construction, owning large construction enterprises. However, these are
being privatized. SCUDA has withdrawn from actual construction and is currently focusing on development of new building
codes, zoning regulations, licensing of construction enterprises, promoting energy efficiency in building designs and
establishing competitive bidding procedures for government building contracts.



- 18 -
for acceptance by the city. Land Departments used to be in charge of allocation of land sites for
different municipal purposes, including residential construction. While still maintaining the old
function, land departments are managing land privatization process and becoming involved in land
registration and cadastre issues.
4.5           In order to implement city specific components, each city administration will establish
a separate executing unit (CEU). Each CEU will be led by a city administration official appointed by
the mayor and staffed from employees of Capital Construction Department, Finance Department and,
if need be, Housing and Land Departments. The CEU will be responsible for all aspects of the
implementation of the city components, will report to the mayor and will disband at the completion of
the project with various staff returning to their respective units. The following are specific functions
assigned to the CEUs:
(i)    Administer the loan for the respective city components and maintain project accounts;
(ii)    Pre-qualify prospective bidders, prepare and issue bidding documents, evaluate bids
and select contractors;
(iii)   Supervise construction and ensure appropriate quality of works;
(iv)   Release funds to contractors;
(v)    Prepare withdrawal applications, statements of expenditures (SOEs) and respective
Special Account replenishment requests;
(vi)   Carry out public information campaigns and marketing and advertisement programs;
(vii)   Organize sales of completed units and implement auctions of developed land sites;
(viii)  Prepare quarterly progress reports on respective city components to be submitted to
the TG.
4.6           Since there is only limited experience in Ukraine with international bidding and
financial management, the CEUs will receive assistance on these aspects through the technical
assistance component of the project. Establishment of CEUs in two out of the three project cities is a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 6.3); the establishment of the CEU in the remaining city is a
condition of disbursement for that city (para 6.4).
B. Ouality Control
4.7           Quality control is critical for the success of the project. There is general
dissatisfaction with the buildings constructed under central planning due to poor quality of
construction. Therefore, construction will be tightly supervised to assure that buildings and
infrastructure are built to specification. The participating city administrations will pay particular
attention to appropriate technical supervision of the works. Funds will be released to contractors only
after satisfactory quality of works is ascertained. For these purposes, the CEUs will include technical
experts, supported by international engineering consultants funded through the technical assistance
component, who will be in charge of quality control of the works.



- 19 -
4.8           Proper maintenance of the completed buildings will be essential to sustain the
completed works. All the apartments in the Bank financed buildings will be privately owned. The
residents will form condominium associations and will be directly responsible for building
management and maintenance.
C. Procurement
4.9           An informal construction industry existed even under the Soviet system. In addition
to the official structures, an unofficially acknowledged and tolerated parallel construction sector
developed to fill the needs which could not be met by the central planning process. Formalization of
this parallel sector began in 1988 when the Law on Cooperatives of the then-USSR allowed small
cooperative-owned construction companies to develop and conferred on them certain advantages such
as salaries no longer limited by regulations and low taxes. This process of formalization was
completed in Ukraine when the 1991 Law on Industrial Enterprises permitted any form of enterprise
ownership.
4.10          With the launching of the Government's enterprise privatization program, vertically
integrated state owned construction enterprises (so called combinats) disintegrated and their units were
transferred into private ownership, thus increasing and expanding private sector participation in the
construction sector. Private ownership forms are joint-stock companies, lease-buyout companies,
cooperatives, small companies with limited liability and single owner companies. In some cases the
state devolved the ownership of companies to their workers/management. In many instances
"'spontaneous privatization" took place wherein managers and/or workers' collectives set up a private
company, leased state-owned company's assets and gradually purchased these assets.
4.11          Currently, there are both private and state construction enterprises operating in
Ukraine. At the end-October 1994, according to the State Committee of Urban Development and
Architecture, there were about 4,134 construction enterprises in Ukraine, of which 1,556 (38%)
remain state owned; the remainder 2,825 (62%) are private or have residual state ownership. There
are several foreign construction companies, among those Polish, German and Austrian, operating in
Ukraine. Some of those are operating through joint ventures, established with local partners.
4.12          There is increasing competition among construction enterprises as the system of state
sponsored construction breaks down. The cut in state budget funding for construction has created
excess capacity among the construction cnterprises. Competition among enterprises for the remaining
work is quite keen. Construction enterprises are actively seeking job opportunities everywhere in
Ukraine and sometimes even outside the country.



- 20 -
TABLE 4.1: Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ millions)
Procurement Method
ICB        NCB         Other        NBF        Total Cost
1. City Components
1.1 Kharkiv
land Development                            2.0          -           -           -            2.0
(1.5)                                            (1.5)
1.2 Odesa
Housing Completion                         9.4          -           -          1.0b_/        10.4
(7.6)                                            (7.6)
1.3 Lviv
Housing Completion                         4.9          -           -          1.4b_/        6.3
(3.9)                                            (3.9)
Land Development                           4.5          -           -         3.5b_/         8.0
(3.7)                                            (3.7)
Sub-Total City Components                       20.8         -            -         5.9b_/        26.7
(16.7)                                           (16.7)
2. Technical Assistance
2.1 Consulting Services                       -           -        0.9 a/          -           0.9
(0.3)                    (0.3)
2.2 Studies                                   -           -           -         0.3 c /        0.3
()
Sub-Total Technical AssiLtace                    -           -          0.9          0.3           1.2
(0.3)                    (0.3)
Total                        20.8         -          0.9          6.2          27.9
(16.7)                  (0.3)                    (17.0)
Note: Numbers in parenthesis are World Bank loan amounts.
a / Services to be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
b / Sunk costs.
c_/ Financing expected to the provided by the EU.



- 21 -
4.13          In Ukraine, similar to many other states of the former Soviet Union, there is no
public procurement law at present. Experience in competitive bidding is limited to a few projects
financed by other international organizations. However, the State Committee on Urban Development
and Architecture is interested in introducing competition in government construction contracts. The
Committee is preparing tendering documents and bidding procedures, with EU assistance, and is
planning to develop public sector procurement legislation and bring the Ukrainian system in line with
EU standards. The Bank project will support the Committee's efforts to promote competitive
bidding. A country procurement strategy note is scheduled for FY 1996.
4.14          The proposed project elements, their estimated costs and method of procurement are
summarized in Table 4.1. Details of the procurement arrangements including plan and schedule are
given in Annex F.
4.15          Housing Completion and Land Development All civil works contracts for housing
completion and land development, totalling US$20.8 million, will be bid through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) following the Bank Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995) and utilizing the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Works: Smaller
Contracts (1995) and, to the extent possible, on a "slice and package" basis. There are estimated to
be 12 civil works contracts, ranging between US$0.5 million to US$2.6 million equivalent. The size
of contracts and use of local design standards make unlikely participation of western contractors in the
bidding; however, contractors from neighboring FSU countries and Eastern Europe might wish to
participate. Given the increasing competition in the Ukrainian construction industry, significant
numbers of local firms are expected to express interest and participate in the tender. Their
participation in the bidding process will be subject to eligibility under the Bank Guidelines on
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). Bidders both for housing
completion and land development components will be prequalified utilizing the Bank's Standard
Prequalification Documents. The city administrations will be responsible for procurement. The
CEUs will carry out the administration of the tender. The CEUs will receive technical assistance on
all aspects related to procurement.
4.16          Technical Assistance The PSC technical group will be responsible for implementation
of technical assistance. All consultant services will be procured according to the Bank's Guidelines
for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency
published in August 1981 following shortlisting and competitive procedures. The TG will receive
technical assistance on all procurement related matters.
4.17          Prior Review Arrangements and Reporting  The prior review arrangements will be as
follows:
(i)    Pregualification: Prequalification of bidders for housing completion and land
development components will be subject to Bank's prior review.
(ii)    Civil Works: All ICB contracts will be subject to prior review".
13/ All contracts are estirnated to be above the Bank's current prior review threshold for civil works contracts of US$500,000.



- 22 -
(iii)   Technical Assistance: Contracts of total value below US$100,000 equivalent for
consulting firms and below US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants will not
require Bank's prior review. However, all Terms of Reference will be subject to
Bank's prior review, regardless of contract value.
The CEUs will be responsible for arranging for Bank review of procurement documents, notifying the
PSC and Bank on contract award and other key actions, collecting and recording data on procurement
and preparing quarterly reports on respective city components. A detailed procurement plan is
presented in the Annex F.
D. Disbursement
4.18         Loan proceeds will be disbursed over four years with closing date of June 30, 1999.
Disbursement estimates are provided in Annex G. The proposed project is the first housing project in
Ukraine. Moreover, there is limited experience with investment projects in Ukraine and housing
projects in the Europe and Central Asia Region. Therefore, no standard disbursement profiles are yet
available. The total Bank loan of US$17.0 million will be disbursed as follows:
TABLE 4.2: Disbursement Categ2ories
Category              Loan Amount          Expenditures to be Financed
(in US$ million)
1. Housing Completion                11.5        80% of civil works
2. Land Development                   5.2        80% of civil works
3. Technical Assistance               0.3        100% of consultant services
Total                    17.0
4.19         Bank financing would follow normal Bank disbursement procedures as summarized in
the Disbursement Handbook. The following are disbursement arrangements for the different
components of the project:
(i)    Housine Completion and Land Development Components Disbursements will depend
on work progress and will be based on full documentation of expenditures. Minimum
size of withdrawal applications for direct payments will amount to 20% of the amount
of deposit on the Special Accounts. Withdrawal applications for the Bank would be
prepared by the CEUs. All disbursement documentation would be duly maintained in
the CEUs and will be made available for review to the appropriate Bank staff upon
request.
(ii)   Technical Assistance Component Loan proceeds would be disbursed against eligible
expenditures either directly to retained consultants or by way of reimbursements for
expenditures already incurred. The Technical Group (TG) attached to the Project
Steering Committee will be responsible for preparation and submitting of withdrawal
applications to the World Bank. For contracts with consulting firms of total value



- 23 -
below US$100,000 and with individual consultants of total value below US$50,000
TG will use the SOE procedure.
4.20         To facilitate implementation of the project, the Borrower would establish four Special
Accounts (SA) in a major foreign commercial bank or banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the World Bank to cover the Bank's share of expenditures. The Authorized Allocations would be
US$140,000 for Kharkiv; US$600,000 for Lviv, US$600,000 for Odesa and US$100,000 for the TG,
representing about four months of average expenditures made through Special Accounts. During the
early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the Special Accounts would be limited to US$70,000
for Kharkiv, US$300,000 for Lviv, US$300,000 for Odesa and US$50,000 for the TG. However,
when the aggregate disbursements under the credit have reached the level of US$2,000,000 the initial
allocation may be increased to the Authorized allocation of US$140,000 for Kharkiv, US$600,000 for
Lviv, US$600,000 for Odesa and US$100,000 for the TG by submitting the relevant applications of
withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the Special Accounts would be submitted monthly or
when one third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation
requirements for replenishment would follow the standard Bank procedures as described in
Disbursement Handbook, chapter 6. Monthly Bank statements of the Special Accounts which have
been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests.
E. Accountina and Auditing
4.21         Each CEU will maintain accounts for loan financed components separately from any
other existing accounts. The CEUs will maintain records of all receipts and disbursements of funds.
The TG will maintain documentation supporting disbursement requests made through SOEs for
consultant services. Copies of these documents will be routinely submitted to the PSC. Each project
account will be audited separately on an annual basis by a firm of independent accountants acceptable
to the World Bank. Audits will be made available to the World Bank by June 30 each year. The
audits will include a separate opinion on the SOE and SAs. These arrangements were confirmed at
negotiations (para. 6.2).
F. Supervision. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.22         Supervision of the Project implementation on the national level would be assigned to
the Project Steering Committee. Monitoring and coordination of project implementation would be
assigned to the TG attached to the PSC. Consultants financed through the technical assistance
component of the project will provide expert advise in procurement, financial management and
beneficiary assessment. The TG will prepare a quarterly progress report on overall project
implementation based on reports from the cities. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations
(para. 6.2).
4.23         Since Ukrainian cities and the national housing agencies have virtually no experience
in implementing Bank projects, the project will require substantial supervision by the Bank in the
initial years. A project launch workshop is scheduled for early 1996. The Bank will reach an
understanding with the project cities and the TG on the critical actions to be taken by quarter and
have these confirmed by the PSC. These actions will be included in the progress reports. A formal
mid-term project implementation review is scheduled for the first half of 1997 whereby senior
govermment officials and the Bank would undertake a comprehensive review of project implementation



- 24 -
to date and the follow up to the housing policy and land and building regulation studies. Under the
supervision of the PSC, the TG will coordinate with the CEU staff and prepare an evaluation report
by March 1997. The report will be reviewed by the Bank and Government. The timing of the mid-
term review was confirmed during negotiations and reflected in the legal documents (para. 6.2). In
the subsequent years, supervision efforts may be reduced, depending on the success in the
implementation process and accumulation of the relevant experience by local authorities. The
supervision plan, implementation schedule and development monitoring indicators are attached as
Annex H.



- 25 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Economic and Social Benefits
5.1          The project will be a first step in the Bank's assistance to the Government in
developing a housing market in Ukraine. A housing market would provide greater choice and allow
for a more efficient allocation of housing as family needs change (e.g. with the birth of children,
changes in employment, growth of incomes, etc.). A vibrant housing market would generate
employment in the construction industry and contribute to domestic resource mobilization by
providing motivation for households to save. Housing reform and development of a housing market
is an integral part of the economic transformation of the Ukrainian economy. Cessation of the free
allocation of housing, housing privatization and homeowner takeover of building management and
maintenance would reduce government budgetary assistance to the housing sector and contribute to
the reduction in the budgetary deficit. A housing market would allow people to obtain alternative
housing and make it easier for them to move and seek better employment opportunities.
5.2          The project will foster the development of a housing market by promoting private
ownership of housing and homeowner management of multi-family apartment buildings, improving
enterprise access to land for housing construction and simplifying land and building regulations to
promote greater private initiative in housing and commercial real estate development. Municipal
housing once planned for allocation will be sold to households. Unlike privatized existing buildings
where there continues to be a mix of private and municipal apartments in the same building, these
buildings will be occupied entirely by private owners. The residents will form homeowner
associations in these buildings and take over management and maintenance. With new buildings, the
maintenance requirements should be initially low so the associations should not be faced with many
contentious problems which will make association management difficult. The project will promote the
development of private developers by improving construction enterprises' access to serviced land for
housing construction and simplifying business regulations. The project will also create demand for
construction enterprises and creating employment opportunities. The project will encourage the cities
to move from allocation of housing to families on the municipal housing waitlist to provision of
infrastructure and creation of an environment for private developers to construct housing in line with
market demand. Finally, studies financed under the technical assistance component will assist the
Government operationalize its Housing Policy Concept and move towards a housing market.
5.3           The project will support reform oriented city administrations and provide an
opportunity to demonstrate an alternative to state allocation and management of housing. Kharkiv,
Lviv and Odesa city administrations have demonstrated a willingness to experiment with alternative
market oriented approaches in housing. In addition, Lviv is considered for inclusion in Bank projects
in municipal water supply and urban transportation and Odesa in a Bank municipal water supply
project.
5.4          Economic analysis was carried out to examine the viability of individual investments.
Market prices were used to quantify the economic benefits assuming that current prices reflected the
consumer's willingness to pay for housing and that sale prices represent the discounted future flow of
housing services. Economic analysis requires information from the very markets that the project is
trying to develop, which is a constraint when carrying out economic evaluation in transition
economies. A small, growing market for existing apartments in the three project cities provided some
information on prices by type of apartment and general location. A simple economic evaluation was
carried out on the housing investments. The analysis is summarized in Annex I. The project



- 26 -
investments are estimated to have a weighted average economic rate of return of 25 %. The economic
returns are vulnerable to a down turn in housing prices and increase in costs: the weighted average
economic rate of return dropping to 14% if the price of apartments drop by 15%, and to 13 % if
construction costs increase by 20%. Without the project, the buildings would have deteriorated and
investment made by the cities lost.
B. Environmental Imnpact
5.5           The project is expected to have minimal negative environmental impact at the sites
and a positive impact on peoples' standard of living through improvements in housing design and
quality of construction. The housing to be completed and sites to be developed are located within the
urban areas, conform to overall city development plans, are not subject to noise or air pollution from
adjacent areas, will not disrupt sensitive ecological or social areas and will be provided with adequate
infrastructure and proper landscaping to prevent pollution of surrounding areas from sewerage and
runoff. Safeguards will be introduced to minimize environmental damage, such as soil erosion,
during construction. Improvements in ventilation, heat controls and other design standards will
ensure a more healthy indoor environment; better insulation, heat control and metering have the
potential to contribute to the country's energy conservation program. An environmental analysis of
the project investments is provided in Annex J.
C. Participatory Approach
5.6           The key stakeholders in the project are the city administrations and potential
beneficiaries, the city residents and the emerging real estate developers. The city administrations
have been involved in project preparation and the need for improving access to land and simplifying
building regulations have been identified through interviews with developers. At the completion of
construction, community organization and participatory approaches will be needed in formation of
homeowners associations, especially since there is a lack of tradition of urban residents coming
together to jointly reach decisions on amounts of expenditures needed for routine maintenance of
buildings or emergency repairs (which they had previously left to the city). Pilot efforts have been
carried out in organizing condominium associations in privatized apartment buildings in Kharkiv and
Odesa with assistance from USAID; this program is being expanded to other cities in Ukraine. The
introduction of Decree No. 588 mandates the creation of homeowners associations for management
and maintenance of the common areas. Homeowners associations will be formed in the Bank
financed buildings after sales have been initiated or in 1998. The Bank is embarking on a special
initiative to introduce participatory approaches into city investment decision making in Odesa with
support to be provided through an Institutional Development Fund grant. Progress on organizing
homeowners associations in existing buildings will be monitored and experience incorporated into the
marketing plan which will include provisions for forming homeowners associations".
14/ The city administrations are expected to take the lead, with assistance from local consultants where necessary, in
organizing homeowners' associations in existing buildings. Under Decree 588, the city, as an owner, can initiate formation of
associations in buildings with a mix of both municipal and privatized apartments.



- 27 -
D. Risks
5.7           The project faces many of the risks inherent in transition economies. The success of
the project depends on the overall progress on economic reform and stabilization. Lack of economic
growth, depressed incomes and high inflation would constrain the growth of the housing market, limit
effective demand for new apartments and dampen developer interest in purchasing serviced land for
housing construction. To address these risks, the scale of the project has been kept small; the number
of apartments to be provided in Lviv and Odesa are estimated to be less than 0. 1% of the housing
stock in both cities. The projected sales price of these apartments are considered to be in line with
comparable apartments. The scale of the land to be developed in Lviv and Odesa has been cut back
with only the initial phase of site development funded through the project. The city administrations
can proceed to construct the subsequent phase with proceeds from the sales of the initial phase should
demand for land turn out to be stronger than projected. Finally, the Bank loan will not impact
severely on the cities' finances even under a worst case scenario where no apartments or land could
be sold: the maximum annual payment of interest and repayment of principal is estimated to be less
than 1.5% of city budget expenditures.
5.8           Another risk is that project costs may increase significantly due to lack of experience
with competitive bidding and real appreciation of the local currency relative to the US dollar. Since
actual bid prices were not available estimates costs, actual prices, based on bids, may differ from the
project cost estimates. The physical contingencies have been set at 10% to take this possibility into
consideration. The local currency, Karbovanets, is considered to be undervalued relative to its value
based on purchasing power parity. The Government is proposing to introduce a national currency,
the Hrivna, to replace the karbovantes in the near future. Introduction of the Hrivna, stabilization of
the economy and renewed confidence in new national currency could result in an appreciation of the
Hrivna in real terms as local prices increase while the currency remains relatively stable. This
phenomenon was observed in other transition economies when new currencies were introduced. The
local project cost expenditures, expressed in US dollar terms, would increase (and the project cities
would be faced with a corresponding financing shortfall). The price contingencies were estimated
assuming some appreciation in the local currency.
5.9           There is a risk that the city administrations will go back on their commitment to
housing reform. Although the project cities have been identified and selected based on their past
commitment to housing reform, changes in the mayor and local councils could bring in a new
administration which may reverse decisions taken by the previous administration. Sales of land is
most controversial and vulnerable since many conservatives hold a strong belief that land should
remain under state ownership. The long wait list for municipal housing puts political pressure on
local officials to continue to allocate housing. At the city level, there is awareness that both the
national and local governments lack the resources to return to the previous system of state
construction, allocation and management of housing and hence a willingness to experiment with
alternative approaches. The project includes more than one city to spread the political risk.
Agreements on the city level reforms are incorporated into the Project and Subsidiary Loan
Agreements; the Subsidiary Loan Agreement will include a provision to accelerate repayment of the
subloan to the city to the national government in case of default on city level policy conditionality.
The study on government assistance to housing will explore alternative measures to promote
homeownership that the Government could introduce to defuse the problem of the families on the
government wait list which continues to be a serious political issue.



- 28 -
5.10         In sum, the project is kept small given the uncertainties and potential risks. The
project would allow the Bank to continue to work with reform oriented city administrations even if
the pace of economic reform and stabilization is slowed at the national level. Should the economic
situation improve significantly, the Bank would be able to follow up with additional housing projects
or housing components in other projects to further the development of a housing market.



- 29 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1          Prior to negotiations, the following actions were carried out:
(i)    The project cities prepared their 1996 land auction program and will prepare their
1997 plan for discussion with the Bank during 1996 (para. 1.19);
(ii)   The project cities confirmed ownership of the building sites (para. 2.7) and the land
development sites (para. 2. 10); and
(iii)   The national government established the Project Steering Committee (para. 4.2).
6.2          The following agreements were reached during negotiations and reflected in the Loan
and Project Agreements:
(i)    Conditions for city participation in the project. The city administrations will: (1) sell
housing completed and land developed under the project; (2) continue the land auction
program; (3) review building and land regulations; and (4) carry out competitive
bidding in selection of contractors (para. 1.19);
(ii)    Commitment by the government and the project cities to encourage the growth of
private developers and promote competition in the housing sector (para. 2.3);
(iii)   The terms and conditions of onlending (para. 3.5);
(iv)   Preparation of a marketing plan for completed housing and land by end-June 1997
(para. 3.6);
(v)    Accounting and auditing (para. 4.21) and monitoring and evaluation arrangements
(para. 4.22); and
(vi)   The mid-term review (para. 4.23).
6.3          The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i)    Signing of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between the
Government and in two of the three project cities (para. 3.4); and
(ii)    Establishment of City Executing Units in the same two cities (para. 4.6).
6.4           Signing of remaining subsidiary loan agreements and establishment of a City
Executing Unit in the city are a condition of disbursement for the third (remaining) city (para. 3.4 and
4.6).
6.5           Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a loan to Ukraine
of US$17.0 million for a period of 17 years, including five years grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.



Annex A
Page 1 of 4
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
UKRAINE: The State Housing Policy Concept
The weakness of the financial and credit system, the state monopolization of
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the housing stock, the restrictions in the allotment of
land parcels and individual housing construction, the lack of incentives for people to solve their
housing problems on their own have all contributed to the acute housing situation in the country.
More than 2.6 million families, including some with certain privileges, have been on the waiting list
for housing improvement for a long time. Despite the shortage of housing the scale of housing
construction decreases every year. Furthermore, the legal framework that currently regulates relations
in the housing sector is itself in need of reform.
The State Housing Policy Concept outlines the guidelines by which the rights of
Ukrainian citizens to housing are secured.
The objectives of the state housing policy are to create conditions for the realization of
the right of citizens to housing, to expand housing construction and to improve maintenance and care
of the housing stock.
Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the housing inventory are among the
priorities in the social and economic development of the country that will help to reduce social
tensions in society.
Factors That Reguire Restructuring of the Current
State Housing Policy
The need to restructure the current state housing policy is preconditioned by:
-     the inconsistency between the current housing system and economic reforms in Ukraine as
well as the need to accelerate integration of the housing sector into the market economy;
-     the reduction of the government funding for housing construction resulting from structural
changes in the national and local budgets as well as decline of the citizens' solvency and
inflation processes in the economy;
-     the insufficient support by the state for cooperative and individual housing construction;
-     the discrepancy between rent payments and operating costs, the inadequate system of paying
for maintenance of the state housing stock and the dependents' attitude of tenants to their
housing which leads to its rapid physical and moral wear;
-     the socially unfair treatment of people who built housing at their own expense and still
continue to pay, through taxes, for the maintenance of the state housing stock;



Annex A
Page 2 of 4
the priority which has been given by the state housing policy to housing construction in big
cities and which has created a large imbalance between rural and urban housing construction
and has thereby led to the impoverishment of villages;
excessive monopolization of housing construction, rehabilitation and maintenance;
the inadequate system of allotting housing and limited choice of different types and locations
of housing available to citizens;
the absence experienced by young people of economic possibilities to build or purchase
housing which is one of the reasons for the deterioration of the demographic situation;
the inadequacy of the legislative framework regulating relation emerging during the
privatization of the state housing stock.
Principal Objectives of the State Housinag Policy
The principal objectives of the state housing policy are:
to create conditions for every citizen to build, purchase or rent housing according to his or
her choice, needs and opportunities;
to provide housing within the established limits at the expense of the state for socially
unprotected people who need to improve their living conditions, particularly those with low
income, invalids, war veterans, servicemen, Chornobyl affected citizens and some other
categories, specified by the Housing Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts;
to provide housing from the state housing stock or subsidies, preferential credits for the
purchase or construction of housing to families who have been on the waiting list for a long
time with a view to the period of waiting and level of income. Aid to young families in
building or purchasing housing;
to establish economic and financial incentives for the construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of housing;
to reorient the urban development strategy towards the expansion of construction of more
comfortable housing, single family homes and the development of small and medium-size
communities; to create favorable environmnent with appropriate infrastructure for social,
cultural and consumer services for the population;
to liquidate dilapidated and dangerous housing; to expand the rehabilitation and upgrade of the
old fashioned housing stock; to eliminate communal apartments;
to promote the expansion and qualitative upgrade of housing development in rural areas, to
improve services there and to urgently set up a housing and municipal system in the rural
areas;



Annex A
Page 3 of 4
to carry out in conjunction with the wage reform a gradual transition to a self-sustained
system of payment for housing and municipal services as well as to targeted subsidies of these
expenditures for low-income and socially unprotected families;
to carry out, in conformity with the course of economic reform, a gradual redistribution of
responsibilities between the national, local governments and self-government agencies,
enterprises, institutions, organizations and individuals in the sphere of housing construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance for the purpose of their decentralization.
Implementation of the State Housing Policy
The state housing policy shall provide for:
financing the expansion of housing construction from alternative sources; promoting the
attraction of non-governmental funds for housing construction, particularly personal savings of
citizens, assets of enterprises, institutions, organizations, foundations, bank credits etc.;
improving the housing construction investment system including the attraction of citizens'
privatization certificates to housing construction and the creation of conditions for granting
low interest credits to citizens for building or purchasing housing;
incentives for enterprises, institutions and organizations engaged in designing, construction
and rehabilitation of housing, in production of ecologically safe building materials and
housing construction equipment, in maintenance of the housing stock as well as enterprises,
institutions and organizations that build housing for their staff;
-      creating conditions for the development of exchanges, investment funds, mortgage and
housing banks, insurance companies and other market structures to finance housing
construction;
-      regulating the amounts of rent and municipal service fees adjusted for the indicators of their
consumer quality;
-      ensuring social safety of the population in connection with the transition to the self-sustained
housing operation system and providing housing and municipal services at their prime cost;
-      reviewing master plans and working out comprehensive programs for the development of
cities and other populated areas with an allowance for new types and methods of housing
construction, including low-rise, individual (single-family) housing; specifying perspective
suburban areas for mandatory reservation for housing construction;
making the allocation of land plots for individual construction by citizens requiring the
improvement of living conditions a first priority and providing land for natural and juridical
persons to build housing in accordance with the legislation in force;
equipping the areas allocated for housing construction with access roads, utility networks and
social infrastructure with the attraction of funds from respective budgets, developers and
investors;



Annex A
Page 4 of 4
expanding the network of specialized houses for temporary residents (hostels, boarding
houses, asylum hotels);
reorienting civil engineering organizations and building materials enterprises at new housing
construction techniques, production of sophisticated ecologically safe and energy saving
structures, articles and equipment in required quantities, increased use of local building
materials;
creating a market of construction services, building materials, articles, technologies, design
documents and top priority channeling of non-governmental investments into the construction
and rehabilitation of housing and other social facilities;
involving the machine building and defense industry enterprises in the manufacture of
machines, aggregates, equipment and small mechanization means for civil engineering
organizations and the building materials industry;
proceeding with the privatization of the state housing stock, setting up a housing market and
market structures in the housing economy;
expanding the responsibilities of apartment (house) owners and tenants for their due upkeep
and maintenance, preventing the use of housing for the wrong purpose;
a mandatory unification of apartment owners in apartment buildings into associations to ensure
proper maintenance of buildings and adjacent territories;
providing housing support from the state to young people.
Public Participation in the Housing Stock Administration
Citizens, their associations and public organizations may take part in:
the housing stock administration to protect their social and economic rights and interests;
the selection of organizations competing to build, maintain and repair housing;
the supervision of expenditures and pricing of housing and communal services.
Provisions of the State Housing Policy Concept are a framework for working out a new Housing
Code of Ukraine, other legislative acts which regulate housing relations in the existing social and
economic conditions and are taken into account when regional and departmental public housing
programs are developed.



ANNEX B
Page I of 4
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Summary of Housing Policy Measures
[ POLIY AREA & LONG TERM                      ACTIONS TAKEN TO DATE                  ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER THE               AREAS FOR FURTHER ACTION
POLICY OBJECTIVES                                                                         PROJECT
ACCELERATING HOUSING
PRIVATIZATION
OBJECTIVE: Government ownership       The Government passed the Law on            The Housing Proiect is fostering private  Housing privatization is a national program
of housing will be minimized; most of  Privatization of State Owned Housing in 1992;    ownership of housing by: (i) selling all  and would encompass both enterprise and
housing will be owned by private      as of September 1, 1995, 32% of target      housing financed through the project at   municipal housing. The Bank operations in
individuals and legal entities who will be   housing has been privatized.         market prices (thereby creating fully     developing a social safety net (through the
free to sell and purchase land and                                                privatized buildings rather than mixed    Rehabilitation Loan and preparation of a
housing. Individual households will be    Decree No. 733 issued in October 1994   public/private building resulting from    Social Project) and improve municipal
responsible for and have access to the  increasing cost recovery for housing to 20%  privatization of individual apartments); (ii)  service delivery (through the proposed
means to adequately manage and       production cost and eventually to 60% by July   requiring formation of homeowner       municipal water project) would support
maintain their buildings; provisions will   1995 and introduced an assistance scheme in  organizations; and (iii) promoting home  government efforts to sustain housing rent
be made of joint ownership of common    early 1995 capping rent and utility (water,  owner takeover of management and       and utility pricing reformn. A follow up
areas in multi-family (apartment)    sewer, heat) payments at 15% of a household's   maintenance of the building.           housing project could focus on accelerating
buildings through condominium         monthly income. The Government delayed the                                            housing privatization nationwide by
associations. Those residents who     increases, raising cost recovery to 40% in end                                        providing incentives to privatize (e.g. by
remain in public owned housing will pay   June 1995 and setting January 1996 as the                                         funding building rehabilitation of buildings
the full market cost of housing; low  target date for reaching 60%                                                          which have been signifcanty privatized and
income households, where necessary,                                                                                         where -ondondinium associations have been
will be provided with financial assistance   Pilot Condominium Associations were formed                                     formed) including both enterprise as weUl as
to meet their housing needs.          and a pilot program for contracting out building                                      municipal housing.
management and maintenance was carried out
in Kharkiv City with USAID assistance. These
programs are to be replicated in other cities,
including Odesa and Lviv.
The Government issued Cabinet of Ministers
Decree No. 588 in July 1995, providing the
framework for formation of condominium
associations.



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 4
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Summary of Housinz Policy Measures
POLICY AREA & LONG TERM                    ACTIONS TAKEN TO DATE                  ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER THE                 AREAS FOR FURTHER ACTION
POLICY OBJECTIVES                                                                          PROJECT
DEVELOPING A HOUSING
FINANCE SYSTEM
OBJECTIVE: Banks and fuiancial        Housing loans are generally not available and  The Housine Project includes a housing   Development of a housing finance system is
institutions will compete with each other   almost all housing transactions are made in cash  finance development study under the  linked to the overall growth of the financial
to provide loans to families for purchase   or through barters.                   technical assistance component which wdl    sector. The Bank has carried out a review
of new or existing housing and to                                                  assist the government formulate an approach    of the fmancial sector and is preparing a
builders for housing construction,                                                to developing housing finance institutions  Financial Institution Development Loan
mobilizing their funding primarily from                                            within the financial sector development    (FIDL) which, among others, address the
domestic savings. Mortgage instruments                                             framework. The finding of the study and    regulatory and institutional issues in the
will be developed which provide                                                    funding for housing finance could be       fmancial sector. Qualified construction
sufficient returns to investors while                                              incorporated in subsequent financial sector or   enterprises and developers are expected to
being affordable to the majority of the                                            housing project. Follow up action will be  be eligible to borrow through the FIDL for
population. (Monopoly and interest rate                                            discussed during the formal mid-term review    their investment needs
subsidies which discourage investment                                              in early 1997.
and competition in housing finance
should be avoided).
ESTABLISHING PROPERTY RIGHTS
OBJECTIVE: A system of clearly
defined, fair and enforceable property  Private ownership of land was allowed under  The Housina Proiect wil promote private  The ongoing Rehabilitation Loan and the
rights wiU be developed. Private      the Land Code of 1992, but the sales or      ownership of buildings and land through sales   proposed Agricultural Sector Adjussment
individuals and legal entities will have  transfer of ownership of land is still limited.  of apartments to households and sales of  Loan include strengthening of property
the right, among others to own property,                                           development rights of serviced land to private  rights through the amendment of the Land
make decisions on use, and dispose of  Auctions of urban land have been carried out in   developers.                          Code and introduction of a Registration
property through sales, transfer or   Kharkiv, Odessa, Lviv and Chernihiv with                                                Law. The proposed Land Registrtion
inheritance.                          USAID assistance. Winning bidders are                                                   Project would assist cities upgrade their
awarded 50 year leases with priority to renew                                          administrative capacity to register property.
for another 50 years. The Government is
expanding the land auction program.



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 4
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Summary of Housing Policy Measures
POLICY AREA & LONG TERM                    ACTIONS TAKEN TO DATE                  ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER THE                AREAS FOR FURTHER ACTION
POLICY OBJECTIVES                                                                          PROJECT
SIMPLIFYING AND MAKING
TRANSPARENT LAND
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
OBJECTlVE: Government land use,       No action has been taken and the previous    The Housing Project includes a review of
building codes and other regulations  system of approvals remains in place.        building and real estate regulations under the
encourage private development                                                     technical assistance component. Agreement
(balancing public interests, such as                                               will be reached to implement the
environmental protection and structural                                            recomunendations of the review.
safety, with development); issuance of                                             Implementation of the recommendations will
building permit, government inspections                                            be examined during the formal nmid-term
and other tegulatory controls are                                                  review in early 1997.
transparent and predictable and do not
result in delays and costs in land and
housing development.
PROMOTING CONSTRUCT70IV AND
BUILDING MATERL4LS INDUSTRY
OBJECTIVE: Construction and building   Construction and building materials industries  The Housing Project will support       The construction and building materials
material supply are carried out by    are being privatized as part of the government's  development of construction firms at the city   industries would be strengthened as part of
private enterprises. Competition      enterprise privatization program.            level by: (i) providing access to serviced  the Government's enterprise privatization
improves quality of construction works                                             land; (ii) simplifying building and land   and development program. Construction
and availability of materials and keeps  Many construction enterprises are seeking  regulations; (iii) introducing and piloting  and material enterprise overall investment
price increases in check.             business opportunities outside their traditional  competitive bidding; and (iv) creating  needs would be addressed through the
areas of operation, creating potential for  business opportunities through the investment   proposed Financial Institution Development
competition in the industry.                financed through the project.              Loan.
The State Committee on Urban Development
and Architecture is developing competitive
bidding procedures for government building
contracts with EU technical assistance.



ANNEX B
Page 4 of 4
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Summary of Housint Policy Measures
POLICY AREA & LONG TERM                    ACTIONS TAKEN TO DATE                  ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER THE                AREAS r:OR FURTHER ACTION
POLICY OBJECTIVES                                                                          PROJECT
PROVIDING ESSENTiAL
INFRASTRUCTVRE AND
MUNICIPAL SERVICES
OBJECTIVE: Local governments and      A Local Government Law has been passed in    The Housing Proiect will be moving the local   Bank is developing an Urban Transport
utility companies will develop roads,  1992, but local governments and municipal   governments towards infrastructure provision    Project and Municipal Water Project which
drainage, water, power and other      enterprises remain dependent on national     for housing development and away from      would tackle improvements in specific
infrastructure and provide municipal  government budgetary support. The            direct ownership and management.           municipal services and is planning to address
services in a planned and coordinated  Government issued Decree No. 733 in 1994                                               the question of local-central government
manner. Local government and utility    increasing cost recovery housing, water and                                           fiscal relations through the Public
companies wil have the flexibility,   sewerage, gas, heating and public transport                                             Expenditure Review.
authority and access to resources to  which would be the first step in providing
construct infrastructure in anticipation of   financial autonomy to municipal enterprises.
development needs (or in line with local
development trends and priorities).
TARGETING GOVERNMENT
SUBSIDIES
OBJECTIVE: Government subsidies to    Lack of funding for housing construction has  The Housint Proiect includes a study on
the housing sector (where necessary and   resulted in practically aDl local governments  government housing policies under the
justified) should be transparent, have  stopping allocation of free housing to families    technical assistance component. The results
clearly stated policy objectives, be  on the government housing wait list.         of the study are expected to be incorporated
targeted to its beneficiaries (the poor                                            into the Bank's policy dialogue and in a
who would not be able to afford basic  The Government issued Decree No. 733 in     possible follow-up housing project. This
housing) and be sustainable within the  October 1994 increasing cost recovery for  would be discussed at during the formal mid-
financial constraints faced by the    housing and municipal services (reducing     term project review in early 1997.
government.                           implicit subsidies) and introduced measures to
cap housuig rent and utility payments at 15% of
monthly incomes.



Annex C
Page 1 of 8
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Review of Government Assistance for Housin,
Outline Terms of Reference
Background
1.           The Housing Policy Concept Paper outlines the government's approach to housing
development in Ukraine. The paper advocates a market based strategy to housing provision, moving
away from the central planning approach of allocating housing to the population. The principal
objectives of the Government's housing policy are to:
a.     create the conditions for every citizen to acquire housing according to his or her
choice, needs and opportunities;
b.     provide housing for low income households, invalids, Chernobol victims, war
veterans and other socially vulnerable or priority groups;
c.     provide housing assistance to young families and families on the wait list to acquire
housing;
d.     establish economic and financial incentives for the construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of housing and eliminate dilapidated housing;
e.    reorient urban development strategy towards the expansion of single family homes,
smaller communities and promote rural housing;
f.    increase cost recovery for state housing and communal services in line with wage
reform; and
g.     decentralize responsibility for housing to local governments, enterprises and citizens.
The Government proposes to implement the housing policy concept through, among others,
legislative acts, direct government budgetary support and low interest housing loans.
2.            The specific policy measures have not been developed to implement the housing
policy concept. Reference are made to direct government support for low income households and
other socially vulnerable groups as well as low interest loan for housing purchase. However, no
consideration has been given to the effectiveness of these and different types of intervention in
housing sector nor to their potential cost to the Government. This is of particular importance since
the Government is expected to face fiscal constraints over the medium term. It may not be possible
for the Government to subsidize housing for Chernobyl victims, low income households and other
social priority groups and provide preferential credits to families on the wait list. To be effective,
policies will need to be designed to conform with the overall macro-economic and fiscal constraints
facing the in mind and tradeoff between different policy objectives will need to be faced.



Annex C
Page 2 of 8
Qbjectives of the Review
3.           The objectives of the review will be to assist the Government operationalize its
Housing Policy Concept Paper by developing policy measures the implement the key objectives of the
policy within the macro-economic and fiscal constraints anticipated over the medium term. The
review will develop a package of cost effective policy measures that the Government could consider.
To the extent possible, the Government should be presented with various policy options. This initial
review is expected to be broad based; detailed measures will be developed as a subsequent phase (not
included under the technical assistance component).
Scope of Work
4.           The review would include, but not be limited to:
a.    A brief overview of housing policies and policy instruments in the OECD countries
(low interest loans, government subsidies to the housing sector, regulatory
requirements, etc.) and their effectiveness;
b.    Identify policy instruments to meet the priority, short term objectives of the
Government in the housing sector and an evaluation of the possible impact of the
policies on government finances and overall sector development;
c.    Develop a pack of policy instruments (including possible legislation) for the
government to operationalize the Housing Policy Concept.
The work is expected to be carried out over 4 months.
5.           The consultants will report to the Housing Project Steering Committee which includes
the key sectoral agencies and representatives from the three project cities (Kharkiv, Lviv and Odesa).
Expected Outputs
6.           The consultants will produce the following reports:
a.    Interim report: At the end of two months, the consultants will produce an interim
report which would include review of housing policies (part (a) above) and policy
options the Government could consider with an evaluation of their potential impact
(part (b) above);
b.    Final report: At the completion of the assignment, the consultants will produce a full
report including recommended policy package and action program for Government
implementation.
7.           The follow up to the study will be reviewed during the mid-term project review
scheduled for early 1997.



Annex C
Page 3 of 8
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Housing Finance Development Study
Outline Terms of Reference
Background
1.           A housing finance system is a critical element of a housing market, especially in
creating demand for housing. Lack of long term financing is the key constraint for households in
purchasing either new or existing house because housing generally costs many times the annual
income of most households. A house is the single largest asset owned by households and housing
purchase is a large motivation for households to save.
2.           The Government has made housing finance one of its priorities under its Housing
Policy Concept. In order to implement its housing policy, the government proposes to provide for
(a) "creating the conditions for development of exchanges, investment funds, mortgage and housing
banks, insurance companies and other market structures to finance housing construction"; and (b)
"financing the expansion of housing construction from alternative sources, promoting the attraction of
non-government funds for housing construction, particularly personal savings of citizens, assets of
enterprises, institutions, organizations, foundations, bank credits, etc."
3.           Development of a housing finance system will need to be considered with the overall
development of the financial sector, but with consideration given to the special characteristics of
lending to households for housing purchase or construction. The housing finance system will operate
within a legal and institutional environment that applies to all banks and financial institutions: e.g.
prudential lending regulations, laws assuring enforcement of contracts, foreclosure in case of loan
default, registry of assets as collateral, etc. There are also characteristic of housing finance which
set it apart from other forms of lending. For example, mortgage lending involves a larger number of
relatively small loans to household. Longer maturities of mortgage lending requires the lenders
explore the option of tapping capital markets and traditional sources of long term financing (such as
pension funds) for financing; the small size of individual loans requires special institutional
arrangements may need to be developed to allow originators of home mortgages to tap into capital
markets.
Objectives of the Study
4.           The objectives of the study are to formulate a plan for promoting the development of
a housing finance system for Ukraine. The study should outline the key elements of a housing
finance system and develop recommendations on the policy, legislative (regulatory) and institutional
actions that the government will need to promote housing finance in Ukraine. These actions will need
to be sequenced with overall economic transformation and financial sector development.
Scope of Work
The review would include, but not be limited to
a.    An overview of existing financial system and prospects for future financial sector
development: a review of banking laws (existing, under preparation), financial



Annex C
Page 4 of 8
regulations, and government plans for future financial sector development; overview
of existing financial institutions; overview of related industries, such as insurance and
pension funds. The review will identify issues pertaining to housing finance that need
to be addressed within the wider context of financial sector development.
b.     An overview of the housing sector: a brief review of land issues, housing
privatization, growth of housing construction firms, provision of infrastructure for
housing development, government support to the housing sector and other housing
sector issues that would impact on the development of the housing finance system.
c.    Institutional options: discussion of different approaches to housing finance (e.g.
specialized housing finance institutions versus universal banking, appropriateness of
secondary markets, etc) and possible implications for Ukraine; identification of key
issues (such as affordability and low interest loans) and discussion of possible policy
alternatives.
d.     Strategy for housing finance development in Ukraine: definition of the role of the
government in housing finance; legislative, institutional and policy actions for the
government to consider.
The work is expected to be carried out over 4 months.
5.            The consultants will report to the Housing Project Steering Committee which consists
of the key sectoral agencies and representatives from the project cities (Kharkiv, Lviv and Odesa).
Expected Outputs
6.            The consultants will produce the following reports:
a.    Interim report: At the conclusion of the review of the existing situation and overall
prospects for financial sector development, the consultants will produce an interim
report which identifies the key issues and policy and institutional options that the
government could consider to promote housing finance.
b.     Final report: At the completion of the assignment, the consultants will produce a full
report including recommended policy package and action program for Government
implementation.
7.            Follow action to the study will be reviewed during the mid-tern project review
scheduled for early 1997.



Annex C
Page 5 of 8
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Building and Land Regulation Review
Outline Terms of Reference
Background
1.            A market for real estate in the urban areas is emerging. Private investors see
opportunities in a growing market for office space, modern shops, hotels and high quality housing for
higher income people and foreigners. A local housing market is developing following privatization of
state owned housing. People are privatizing their apartments and exchanging or selling them to adjust
their housing to their current rieeds. Real estate brokers are emerging to link potential sellers with
buyers.
2.            Developers are interested in constructing new buildings and rehabilitating existing
buildings to address the needs of this growing real estate market, but face various constraints. One
key constraint is the complex (and not necessarily transparent) review and approval procedures for
development project. For example, a developer in Kiev needs to go through the Permanent
Comnmission for Architecture, Construction and Development of the city council, the Kiev Institute of
Architectural Design and City Planning, the district authorities, archaeological authorities, Commnittee
on Economic of the city council and the Department of Architecture of the Kiev City Administration.
It takes about 2 years from the time an application is submitted to obtain approval to start
construction.
3.            While building standards, land use controls and building permits are necessary to
protect public interest (e.g. environmental protection, structural safety, etc), excessive regulation can
delay implementation of projects, increase costs and act as a disincentive for private investment.
There is a need to balance the cost and benefits of regulations. The Government should review its
regulations and procedures on allocation of development rights, mandatory government reviews and
issuance of permits, estimate the time and costs (administrative expenditures, costs of delays) required
to fulfil these requirements, and simplify or eliminate those that are cumbersome.
Objectives of the Study
4.            The objectives of the study are to review existing land and building regulations at the
city level and recommend areas where the regulations can be simplified and where they need to be
strengthened (e.g. in environmental protection). These recommendation would be followed up with
regulatory changes at the national and city levels.
Scope of Work
5.            The review would include, but not be limited to
a.     An overview of existing rule and regulations pertaining to real estate development
projects; and
b.     Recommendations on areas for simplification and strengthening of these regulations.



Annex C
Page 6 of 8
The work is expected to be carried out over 6 months in collaboration with the city administrations of
Kharkiv, Lviv and Odesa.
6.            The consultants will report to the Housing Project Steering Committee which consists
of the key sectoral agencies and representatives of the three project cities.
Expected Outputs
7.            The consultants will produce the following reports:
a.    Interim report: After 3 months, the consultants will produce an interim report which
identifies the areas where rules and regulations need to be simplified or strengthened;
b.     Final report: At the completion of the assignment, the consultants will produce a full
report including recommended action program at both the national and local levels.
8.            The follow action taken by the project cities will be examined as part of the mid-term
implementation review scheduled for early 1997.



Annex C
Page 7 of 8
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Project Implementation Technical Assistance
Outline Terms of Reference"5
Background
1.            The housing project will bring about significant changes in the way in which civil
works projects are implemented at the city level. First, contractors for civil works contracts will be
selected through competitive bidding procedures. However, neither the city staff nor the contractors
have experience in competitive bidding. Second, the cities will have to manage an international
contract for which they have very limited experience. Stricter contract management and quality
control during construction will be essential for the success of the project. One of the major
shortcoming of construction under the Soviet system was poor quality control; many residents
complained about the poor quality of construction and finish of their state provided housing. Finally,
the accounts will need to be set up to track project expenditures. These accounts will need to be
maintained following international accounting practices, kept separate from the city's regular accounts
and subject to annual audit.
2.             The cities will also be responsible for preparation of marketing plans for sales of
completed units. The marketing plan will need to include method of sales, advertisement and
promotion, organization of sales and pricing of apartments and land. The project cities have started
and will continue to carry out land auctions but have no experience in marketing apartments.
3.            Homeowners associations will be organized to take over management and maintenance
of the buildings once they are sold. Two project cities, Odesa and Kharkiv, have organized
condominium associations with assistance from USAID for privatized buildings. The Government has
introduced a decree mandating formation of homeowners associations to takeover management and
maintenance of the common areas. USAID through local consultants is expected to continue to
provide support for the formation of condominium associations in Odesa, Kharkiv, Lviv and other
cities in Ukraine. Community organization and participatory approaches may be needed in formation
of homeowners associations, especially since there is a lack of tradition of urban residents coming
together to jointly reach decisions on amounts of expenditures needed for routine maintenance of
buildings or emergency repairs (which they had previously left to the city).
Objectives of the Technical Assistance
4.             The objective of the technical assistance is to provide support to the city
administrations in key areas where they lack the necessary expertise to assure the success
implementation of the project.
15/ For simplicity, a single outline is prepared. Implementation of the assistance can be split into more than one contract and
separate detailed terms of reference developed accordingly.



Annex C
Page 8 of 8
Scope of Work
5.           Assistance will be required in:
a.    Project Implementation: organization and implementation of competitive tender,
contract management, accounting systems and financial management and control;
b.    Preparation of marketing plan for apartments and land financed through the project;
c     Organization of homeowners associations.
The consultants will report to the Project Technical Group at the national level and will work with the
project city administrations at critical times in project implementation at the local level.
Expected Outputs
6.           The expected output would include: procedures and manual (for competitive tender,
financial management, etc); training programs and technical advise.



UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Proiect Components Cost Summary
%     % Total
(US$ 000)             Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Housing Completion Component
Lviv Housing Completion                     1,987.8    1,626.3    3,614.1      45       16
Odesa Housing Completion                    3,847.3    3,147.8    6,995.1      45       31
Sub-Total Housing Completion Component        5,835.1    4,774.1    10,609.2     45       47
B. Land Development Component
Lviv Land Development Component             1,923.9    1,574.1    3,498.0      45       15
Kharkiv Land Development Component           838.3      685.8    1,524.1       45        6
Sub-Total Land Development Component          2,762.2    2,259.9    5,022.1      45       22
C. Sunk Costs
Lviv Housing Completion Component           1,430.0         -     1,430.0        -       6
Odesa Housing Completion Component           970.5          -       970.5        -       4
Kharkiv Land Development Component                     -          -         -            -
Lviv Land Development Component             3,461.0         -    3,461.0         -      15
Sub-Total Sunk Costs                          5,861.5         -    5,861.5         -      26
D. Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance                         240.0      960.0    1,200.0       80        5
Total BASELINE COSTS                           14,698.8    7,994.0   22,692.8       35     100
Physical Contingencies                      1,289.4    1,055.0    2,344.4      45       10
Price Contingencies                         1,529.8    1,356.5    2,886.3      47       13
Total PROJECT COSTS                            17,518.0   10,405.5   27,923.5       36     123
Interest During Construction                       -    2,023.3    2,023.3      100       9
Commiment Charges                                  -       87.6       87.6      100        0
Total Costs to be Financed                     17,518.0   12,516.4   30,034.4       40     132                          X
_  _      _                           _    _  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
ExRenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(USS'000)           Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Buildings                            5,835.1    4,774.1   10,609.2      45      63
Infrastructure                       2,762.2    2,259.9    5,022.1      45      30
Sub-Total Civil Works                  8,597.3    7,034.0   15,631.3     45       93
B. Consulting Services
Consulting Services                   240.0      960.0    1,200.0       80       7
BASELINE COSTS                           8,837.3    7,994.0   16,831.3      47     100
Physical Contingencies               1,289.4    1,055.0    2,344.4     45       14
Price Contingencies                  1,529.8    1,356.5    2,886.3      47      17
TOTAL INCREMENTAL PROJECT COSTS         11,656.5   10,405.5   22,062.0      47     131
.,  .       .          _      . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies (USS'00)
Housing Completion
Component             Land Development Component
Lviv        Odesa          Lviv Land     Kharklv Land
Housing      Housing       Development   Development        Technical
Completion    Complition     Component      Component        Assistance      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Buildings                   4,880.3       9,366.3               -              --                     14,246.6
Infrastructure                    -            -           4,580.2        2,000.0              -       6,580.2
Subtotal Civil Works          4,880.3       9,366.3          4,580.2        2,000.0              -      20,826.8
B. Consulting Services
Consulting Services               -            -                -              -          1,235.0      1,235.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              4,880.3      9,366.3          4,580.2        2,000.0         1,235.0     22,061.8
Taxes
Foreign Exchange              2,201.6       4,224.8         2,071.1          910.0           998.0      10,405.5
£ >
0 x



UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Project by Years - Totals Including Contingencies (USS'000)
1996      1997       1998       Total
A. Housing Completion Component
Lviv Housing Completion                     938.3    2,939.3    1,002.7    4,880.3
Odesa Houisng Completion
Moldovanka                                468.9       460.7    1,102.4    2,032.0
Building # 42                             345.5     1,064.7     397.8     1,808.0
Building # 1                              323.9       770.1         -     1,094.0
Buildings # 38&38B                        728.4     1,773.6         -     2,502.0
Buildings # 7&8                           581.9     1,348.1         -     1,930.0
Sub-Total Odesa Housing Completion         2,448.6    5,417.2    1,500.2    9,366.0
Subtotal Housing Completion Component          3,386.9    8,356.5    2,502.9    14,246.3
B. Land Development Component
Lviv Land Development Component            1,929.4    2,650.8         -     4,580.2
Kharkiv Land Development Component          789.5     1,210.5         -    2,000.0
Subtotal Land Development Component            2,718.9    3,861.3         -     6,580.2
C. Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance                        816.0       207.0     212.0     1,235.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                   816.0       207.0     212.0     1,235.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            6,921.8    12,424.8   2,714.9    22,061.5                    ,n
o
>e



UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
KHARKIV: SOURCES AND APPUCATION OF FUNDS
(in USS Millions)
1996     1997     1998      1999     2000      2001     2002     2003      2004     2005      2006     2007      2008     2009      2010     2011      2012     Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS:
City Budget            0.290    0.512    0.131     0.131    0.131     0.259    0.248    0.237     0.226    0.215     0.204    0.194    0.183    0.172    0.161      0.150    0.139    3.582
IBRD Loan              0.607    0.931     0.000    0 00     0.000                                                                                                                      1.538
Sales
Land                            0.000    1.200    0.300    0.000    0.000                                                                                                              1.500
Total                  0.897    1.443    1.331     0.431    0.131    0.259    0.248    0.237      0.226    0.215     0.204    0.194    0.183    0.172    0.161      0.150    0.139
APPUCATION OF FUNDS:
Investments
Infrastructure        0.893    1.369    0.000    0.000    0.000                                                                                                                        2.262
Debt Service
Commitrnent Fee       0.004    0.002    0.000    0.000    0.000                                                                                                                        0.006
Interest              0.000    0.071    0.131      0.131    0.131    0.131    0.120    0.109    0.098    0,087      0.076    0.065    0.054    0.044    0.033    0.022    0.011        1.314
Principal                                                            0.128    0.128    0.128    0.128    0.128    0.128    0.128    0.128    0.128    0.128    0.128    0.128          1.538
Total                  0.897    1.443    0.131     0.131    0.131    0.259    0.248    0.237    0.226    0,215    0.204    0.194    0.183    0.172    0.181         0.150    0.139
SURPLUS                0.000    0.000    1.200    0.300    0.000    0.000    O.W        0.000     0.000    0,000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    O.00    0.000    0.000
Table Notes:
a. City budget includes counterpart (investment) funds, taxes and debt service; exdudes city administrative expenditures for prject implernentation.
b. Sales assumpibons are as follows:
Year                           1997     1998      1999     2000     2001
Land (sq. m.)                    0    48000    12000         0         0
Price per Sq. M.: USS            0       25        25        0         0
c. Investment costs indude conbngencies and taxes
d. Bank loan funds are onlent with 5 years grace, repayment over 17 years in equal repayments of principal at an interest rate of 8.5% per annum.
OQ  0
tD  (D
0



UKRAINE
HOlING PROJECT
LVIV: SOUtRCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(In USS Millions)
1996    1397     13"      13f9    2000    2001       2002    2003      2004    2005    2006       2007     2008    2009     2010     2011      2012    ToWl
SOURCES OF FUNDS:
City Bude            0.980    2.283    0.956    0.643    0.643    1.274    1.220    1.167    1.113    1.060    1.006    0.952    0.899    0.845    0.792    0.738    0.684   17.256
IBRD Loan            2.197    4.540    0.832    0.000    0.000                                                                                                                7.568
Sale
Apinlents                     0.000    4.264    2.956    0.000    0.000                                                                                                      7.220
Land                          0.000    0.247    0.252    0.321    0.492                                                                                                      1.312
Total                 3.177    6.823    6.300    3.851    0.965    1.766    1.220    1.167    1.113    1.060    1.006    0.952    0.899    0.845    0.792    0.738    0.684
APPIJCAlION OF FUNDS:
Invuitmen
Infrashrcture        2.139    3.128    0.000    0.000    0.000                                                                                                               5.267
BuHdiNg              1.019    3.398    1.196    0.000    0.000                                                                                                               5.612
Debt Servce
Commitment Fee       0.019    0.013    0.002    0.000    0.000                                                                                                               0.034
Interast             0.000    0.283    0.590    0.643    0.843    0.843    0.590    0.536    0.482    0.429    0.375    0.322    0.268    0.214    0.161    0.107    0.054    6.342
Prilndpl                                                          0.631    0.631    0.631    0.631    0.831    0.631    0.631    0.631    0.631    0.631    0.631    0.631    7.568
Tota                  3.177    6.823    1.788    0.643    0.643    1.274    1.220    1.167    1.113    1.060    1.006    0.952    0.899    0.845    0.792    0.738    0.684
SURPLUS              0.000    0.000    4.511    3.208    0.321    0.492    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000
Table Notes:
a. City budget indudes counterpet (invesbrent funds, t    nd debt sewvice; exdudes adinisnratIe expenditures for proct iemention
b. Sae aisuetlors for spabnent and lnd we as fllows:
Yew                          1997     1996    1999    2000
Apatmet (no.)                 300      204
Prie per Apst US$000          14.2    14.5
Land (sq. m.)               10000    10000   10000    15000
Price per Sq. M.: USS        24.7    25,2    32.1       32.8
0Q~
The lodn of tme sit e  assuiond on awtment saes ae disasaed In Anrex H (EconomIC Analysis Sumnwy). Pices he been adused to retxIcd empact of aprdaon of local caurrncy.          M  M
c. lnvesent o  lxdudes conlirVenciea and txe.                                                                                                                                      K
d. Bank loan fund aeon nt wlth 5 ym grace, rpble over 17 ym  ki equa"l repenwn of pdncpal at an hiret ra of 8.5% per Onnnurn.                                                      0
I-hI



UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
ODESA: SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(in USS Million)
1it      1997    1it"    1e         2000     2001     2002     2003     2004     2005     200t      2007     2008     2009     2010     2011     2012    Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS:
City Budget           0.834    2.188    1.102    0.637    0.637    1.261    1.208    1.155    1.102    1.049    0.996    0.943    0.890    0.837    0.784    0.731    0.678   17.031
IBRD Loan             1.883    4.393    1.237    0.000    0.000                                                                                                                 7.493
Apartnents Sales               0.000    4.600    5.761    2.269    0.000    0.000                                                                                               12.630
Total                 2.697    6.581    6.940    6.398    2.906    1.261    1.208    1.155    1.102    1.049    0.996    0.943    0.890    0.837    0.784    0.731    0.678
APPLICATION OF FUNDS:
Investments
Bulldings            2.678    6.316    1.778    0.000    0.000                                                                                                                 10.771
Debt Service
Commnitment Fee      0.019    0.014    0.003    0.000    0.000                                                                                                                  0.036
Intereat             0.000    0.252    0.558    0.637    0.637    0.637    0.584    0.531    0.478    0.425    0.372    0.318    0.265    0.212    0.159    0.106    0.053    6.224
Prncpal                                                            0,624    0.624    0.624    0.624    0.624    0.624    0.624    0.624    0.624    0.624    0.624    0.624    7.493
Total                 2.697    6.581    2.339    0.637    0.637    1.261    1.208    1.155    1.102    1.049    0.996    0.943    0.890    0.837    0.784    0.731    0.678
SURPLUS               0.000    0.000    4.600    5.761    2.269    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000
Table Notes:
a. City budget induaes counterpetl (invesment) funds, taxes and debt service; exdudes adninistrative expenditures for proect implementaton.
b. Sales assumptions for apartrenb we as folows:
Year                          1997     1998     1999     2000     2001
Moldovanka: No.                                  38       19
Price: US50000                        40.4     42.0
Bldg. #42: No.                                   80       80
Price: USOO0O                         17.6     18.0
Bdg. 01:  No.                           35       30
Prke: US$0000                27.2     27.7
Bldg. 438&388: No                       96       100                                                                                                                                  0Q 
Price: US000O               18.5      18.9                                                                                                                                  I  tD
Bldg. #7&8: No                          38
Price: USOOOO                48.2
0
The bcaton o the stes s id rtnassum    of apwe  sales ae dicnsd In Annex H (Economic Analysis Summery). Prk es adlusted to rdect   Wd of exdcig rats dcagres.
c Inv_sknint cost  cbdude contingmnces  d tx                                                                                                                                            (A)



ANNEX F
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Procurement Plan
(USS'OOO)
Contract Value     Procurement      Implementation
Package                   (US$ Million)        Method             Period
I. Housing Completion Component
Lviv Housing Completion
Buildings 8, 11 & 12            2.0             ICB          08/1996 - 07/1998
Buildings 6, 7 & 10             2.9             ICB          08/1996 - 08/1998
Odesa Housing Completion
Moldovanka                       2.1            ICB          08/1996 - 03/1998
Building # 42                    1.8            ICB          08/1996 - 03/1998
Building # 1                     1.1            ICB          06/1996 - 05/1997
Buildings # 38&38B              2.5             ICB          06/1996 - 08/1997
Buildings # 7&8                  1.9            ICB          06/1996 - 07/1997
II. Land Development Component
Kharkiv Land Development                2.0            ICB          06/1996 - 08/1997
Lviv Land Development
Water                            1.0            ICB          07/1996 - 05/1997
Sewage                           1.6            ICB          07/1996 - 07/1997
Heating/Hot Water                1.4            ICB          07/1996 - 07/1997
Roads & Other Works             0.6             ICB          10/1996 - 10/1997
Ill. Technical Assistance
Consulting Services
Financial Management            0.2          Cons. Serv.    08/1996-12/1997_b/
Procurement                     0.2          Cons. Serv.     06/1996 - 10/1996
Contract Management              0.4         Cons. Serv.    06/1996-12/1997_b/
Monitoring                       0.2         Cons. Serv.         Jun-98
Studies                                 0.3             NBF         06/1996 - 12/1996
a/ The General Procurement Notice for the project was published on February 16, 1996
b/ These services are not expected to be continuous and will be provided when required



ANNEX G
UKRAINE
HOUISNG PROJECT
Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Amount (US$ Million)
Cumulation
Bank FY            Semester            Absolute           Cumulative        as % of Total
1996                 1                   -                  -                   0
2                 2.1                 2.1                 12
1997                 1                  2.9                5.0                 29
2                 4.9                 9.9                 58
1998                 1                  4.9                14.8                87
2                 1.1                 15.9                94
1999                 1                  1.1                17.0                100



Annex H
Page 1 of 4
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Supervision of the project is expected to require 20 staff-weeks per fiscal year during first two years of
implementation and 10 staff-weeks thereafter. A formal mid-term review involving senior government
officials will be carried out in early 1997 to review progress on implementation, including simplification
of land and building regulations and follow-up on policy studies. 15 staff-weeks in the field will be
required for mid-term review. The schedule below indicates supervision plan and required resources in
addition to regular review requirements for procurement actions, progress reviews and various
correspondence.
Dates                 Activity              Staffing               Staff-weeks'
May, 1996             Project Startup       - Task Manager
- Economist
- Architect
- Procurement
- Financial
Management                     10
October 1996          Supervision           - Task Manager
- Architect
- Procurement
- Disbursement                 8
March 1997            Supervision           - Task Manager
Mid-term review       - Division Chief
- Economist
- Architect
- Financial Analyst
- Procurement                  15
September 1997        Supervision           - Architect
- Financial Analyst            4
March 1998            Supervision           - Architect
- Financial Analyst            4
October 1998          PCR Preparation       - Economist
- Architect
- Financial Analyst            6
1/    Staff-weeks for IBRD staff only. Additional resources are expected to be obtained from
consultant trust funds.



Annex H
Page 2 of- 4
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Project Implementation Summary
1995     1996      1997     1998      1999      2000
PRE-INVESTMENT ACTIVITY:
Preparation of Tender Documents              ==
Tendering                                      ++
INVESTMENTS:
Kharkiv: Land Development
Lviv:  Housing Completion
Land Development                           00011001/00000
Odesa: Housing Completion
MARKETING & SALES:
Preparation of Marketing Plan
Kharkiv: Land                                                  .......
Lviv:  Housing                                                 ...............
Land                                                    .........................
Odesa: Housing                                                 .......................
HOME OWNER ORGANIZATION:
Constituent Meeting
Preparation of By-Laws
Adoption of By-Laws                                                      ++
STUDIES:
Govemment Support for Housing
Housing Finance Development
Land & Building Regulation
MID-TERM REVIEW:



Annex H
Page 3 of 4
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Suvervision Plan
Development Monitoring Indicators
I Ro|t -tEVW1PMENT                  MON1TOWIXGNfICATO                            COM1S
Further Private Ownership of Housing   Marketing Plan for Apartments      Lviv and Odesa city administrations
Completed Under the Project: by June    will prepare marketing plans which
1997                                 will include sales of all units
completed under the project. The
Bank will review these marketing
plans.
Promote Resident Takeover of         Organization of Homeowners           Lviv and Odesa city administrations
Building Management & Maintenance    Associations: within six months of   will assist buyers organize
start of sales                       homeowners associations using
participation techniques with
Adoption of Homeowner Associations    assistance from the project
By-Laws: within nine months of start    implementation consultants.
of sales                             Organization of the homeowner
associations will be incorporated in
the marketing plans.
Encourage Growth of Private         Implementation of Land Auctions       All three project cities will carry out
Developers                           Programs for 1996 & 1997             the auctions scheduled for 1996 &
1997. Kharkiv and Lviv city
Preparation of Marketing Plan for    administrations will prepare a separate
Land Developed Under the Project: by    marketing plan for the land developed
June 1997                            under the project by June 1997.
Completion of Building and Land      The Bank will discuss the results of
Regulation Study by December 1996    the Building and Land Regulation
and Implementation of Agreed Action  Study, reach understanding with the
Plan (following study): by June 1997  cities on follow up actions, and
monitor implementation of the
actions.
Pilot Competitive Bidding in the     Development of contract documents:   The Bank will ensure competitive
Selection of Contractors for         By March 1996                        bidding as part of the regular
Government (City) Contracts                                               superivison activities.
Implementation of the first competitive
tender: By June 1996



Annex H
Page 4 of 4
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Development Monitoring Indicators
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT                  MONiTORING INDICATORS                         COMMENTS
| OBJECTWES
Further Housing Reform                Completion of review of government     The national government (through the
assistance to housing and agreement on   technical group) will oversee
follow-up action plan: by December    implementation of the policy studies
1996                                  financed under the technical assistance
component. The Bank will discuss
Completion of housing finance         and agree on the follow up action
development study and agreement on    with the Project Steering Committee
follow-up action plan: by December    which include the key national
1996                                  government agencies involved with
the housing sector and sectoral policy.



Annex I
Page 1 of 8
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Economic Analysis Summary
1.            The main economic benefit of the project will be the promotion of the housing market
itself and the contribution of the project to the process of economic transformation. A housing
market would provide households with greater choice in the location and type of housing based in line
with their changing needs and an incentive to save, and improve the quality and cost of housing
through increased competition in supply. In the transition economies, development of a housing
market will support the growth of industrial and commercial enterprises by allowing for divestiture of
enterprise own housing and facilitating labor mobility. Growth of a real estate market will allow for
greater flexibility in constructing offices and other commercial buildings in urban areas which will
allow cities to function as dynamic service and information centers. Increased private ownership of
housing and household involvement in the selection, management and maintenance of housing will
contribute to the reduction in government housing subsidies, both for construction and maintenance,
which will impact on the government budgetary deficit and overall macro economic stabilization.
Finally, cramped quarters and poor quality of housing are seen by the people as one of the more
visible shortcomings of the central planning system. Better housing will provide tangible results of
the alternative to central planning and will sustain momentum for economic reform.
2.            The project will contribute to the development of the housing market by: (a)
promoting private ownership of housing through the sales of unfinished municipal buildings and
moving away from the previous system of state allocation of apartments to families on the waitlist; (b)
supporting private housing developers through improve access to serviced land and simplification of
building and land regulations; (c) introducing competition in the construction industry through use of
competitive bidding procedures in selection of contractors; and (d) assisting the national government
develop policies for rationalizing assistance to the housing sector and devising a strategy for
introducing housing finance. The project will support reform oriented city administrations and
demonstrate an alternative to state management of the entire housing stock.
3.            Economic evaluation was carried out of to examine the viability of the individual
investments. Cost benefit analysis relies on the market to generate information on the beneficiaries
willingness to pay for goods or services produced which is then used to measure the benefits from the
investment. There are clear limitations to economic analysis in the transition economies where these
markets are just emerging.
4.            While a real estate market is developing in Ukraine, it is still limited and information
on housing transactions scarce. In Kharkiv, Lviv and Odesa, there is a small but growing market for
apartments. While realtors provide information on apartments available for sale or exchange and
broker transactions, information on actual apartment sales is not readily available, expect possibly in
Kiev where the local realtors are better organized. Sufficient information on land sales is not
available. While land auctions have been carried out in all three cities, the number of actual
transactions is very limited (information is available for only just over 20 sales) and prices vary from
US$0.25 per sq. m. to US$200 per sq.m. Therefore, only a very simple economic evaluation was
carried out for housing investments using information available from local realtors on the market for
apartments in the three project cities.



Annex I
Page 2 of 8
5.            Imputed rental values, reflecting the beneficiaries willingness to pay for housing
services, are generally used to quantify the economic benefits of housing investments. Sales prices
are used as a proxy for benefits, assuming that sales price represents the discounted future flows of
benefits to purchasers (homeowner). Information on sales of existing apartments in Lviv and Odesa
was obtained from discussions with local real estate agents and published information where available.
This information is available in the project files.
6.            As in market economies, the location of the proposed investments is a key factor in
determining their attractiveness to potential buyers. Similar sized apartments located in or close to
the city center, in prestigious areas and/or with good transportation access commanded higher prices.
The characteristics of the four housing sites are as follows:
a      Lviv. Lvsvnychi: The project will finance completion of six buildings which are located
adjacent to each other in a new housing development at Lysynychi. The site is located on the
outskirts of Lviv City, but it is not necessarily far, being only about 5 km from the city center
(and about 20 minutes by car). The proposed buildings are part of a larger housing
development, some of the buildings being already completed and occupied, two enterprise
housing buildings'6 under construction and an additional 18 buildings planned. Bus service is
provided to the site.
b.     Odesa. Moldovanka: The project will finance completion of one building in Moldovanka.
The site is located in an old established neighborhood, located close to the city center. The
site is within 3 km of the city center (or 10-15 minutes by car) and is served by tram and bus
lines.
c.     Odesa, Vuzovsky: The project will finance completion of three buildings in Vuzosky. Two
buildings (no. 7 and 8) are located adjacent to each other, are of the same design and can be
considered as one development; the other building (No. 1) is located in same area although
not necessarily adjacent to the other buildings. Vuzovsky is an established area with a mix of
older single family houses (vacation homes), newer apartment buildings and resort facilities,
situated along the Black Sea coast. The proposed housing sites are well located,
approximately 4 km from the city center (or about 20 minutes by car) with tram and bus
readily available and are also within walking distance to the beaches.
d.     Odesa. Yuzhnv: The project will finance completion of three buildings in Yuzhny. These
buildings are located adjacent to each other with similar designs and can be considered as one
development. Yuzhny is located a little further south of Vuzovsky. The site is located within
an established housing estate consisting primarily of large apartment buildings with about
2,500 households. The distance to the city center is about 6 km (or about 30 minutes by car);
bus and tram transportation is readily available.
All three sites in Odesa are located in the southern part of the city which is considered to be a more
desirable residential area with beaches along the Black Sea compared to the more industrialized
northern parts.
7.            The comparable average market prices were estimated for the apartments to be
financed. It should be noted that these are very rough estimates based on available information on the
16/ Buildings constructed by enterprises to house their employees.



Annex I
Page 3 of 8
market for existing apartments in Lviv and Odesa. The amenities included with the apartment, the
specifics of the location of the buildings (its immediate surroundings, access to transportation, access
to schools and other social facilities), the age and state of the building influence its market value.
The market value of the apartments funded through the project were estimated to be slightly higher
than the apartments of a comparable size in a similar location because they are new. The price
estimates used for the economic evaluation are as follows:
a.     Lviv. Lysvnvchi: Estimated average market value per apartment: US$11,500 (or around
US$190 per sq. m.) based on data of existing apartments for sale in Syhib, another housing
estate established on the fringe of Lviv City. For comparison, the price for apartments for
sale near the city center average around US$250 per sq.m.
b.     Odesa. Moldovanka: Estimated average market value per apartment: US$34,000 or around
US$490 per sq. m. based on the average sales price for apartments in the Moldovanka
district.
c.     Odesa, Vuzovsky: Different market values were estimated for building no. 1 and buildings
nos. 7 & 8 to reflect the difference in unit size. The average size of an apartment in
buildings 7 & 8 is about 100 sq. m. or about 50% higher than the average for apartments in
building No. 1. The estimated market values were estimated to be US$22,000 or around
US$340 per sq. m. for building no. 1 and US$39,000 or around US$390 per sq. m. for
buildings nos. 7 & 8 based on the average sales price for apartments in the Vuzovsky district.
d.     Odesa. Yuzhnv: Estimated average market value per apartment: around US$ 15,000 or
U$260 per sq. m. based on the average sales price for apartments in the Yuzhny district.
Current estimates of market prices were used for the economic analysis since it will be premature to
speculate on the movement of real estate prices". A sensitivity analysis was carried out assuming a
decline in the prices of the apartments.
8.             The cost were based on project cost estimates. Taxes were excluded from cost
estimates. Prior expenditures made by the city for uncompleted housing units were considered as
sunk costs and were not included in the cost estimates. In Lviv, part (15%) of the cost of the off-site
infrastructure (in proportion to the total site) were added to the cost of the housing completion. No
shadow prices were used because appropriate prices had not been developed. All prices were in
constant 1995 prices.
9.             The weighted average economic rate of return for the uncompleted housing
investments is 29% (Table 1). There is difference among the individual investments with Lysynychi,
Moldovanka and Buildings Nos. 7 and 8 having rates of return lower than the other component.
Detail calculations are shown at the end of this Annex.
17/ The housing prices lsed in the city cash flow projections (Annex E) differ from these numbers since they are expressed in
current prices and include an adjustment for possible real appreciation of local currency against the US dollar. All
contingencies other than physical contingencies in the cost estimates were excluded from the economic evaluation.



Annex I
Page 4 of 8
TABLE 1: Economic Rate of Return By Component
Economic Rate of Return
Component                   Weights   _            _            __________
Base Case   Decrease in  Increase in
Price: 15 %    Costs:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    J   ~2 0 %
Lysynychi                     34%         14%          2%           1%
Moldovanka                    14%         23%          14%          15%
Building No. 42               13%         31%          23%         22%
Building No. 1                 8%         50%          37%         35%
Buildings No. 38 & 38B        18%         41%          29%         27%
Buildings No. 7 & 8           14%         14%          1%           0%
Weighted Average ERR                      25%          14%          13%
10.           The main risks facing the project are weaknesses in housing prices and possible
increases in costs. The housing market in Lviv and Odesa are just emerging and, unlike more
mature markets, it is difficult to predict future price trends based on current market conditions,
especially since real estate markets are location specific. Increase in supply of housing, shift in
market preference or continued economic difficulties may result in real estate prices dropping below
today's levels. Construction prices are also difficult to predict, especially with the collapse of the
construction industry and break down in material distribution. As economic activity, especially
construction picks up, the cost of materials may increase due to local shortages caused by the
inefficiency in the distribution system. Appreciation of the local currency in real terms may also
result in cost increases, although such increases could be offset by an increases in wages and
household incomes and greater demand for housing. Sensitivity analyses were carried out to estimate
the impact of a decrease in real estate prices and an increase in construction costs in costs. The
weighted average economic rate of return would drop below 15% per annum if real estate prices drop
by 15% from today's levels or costs increase by 20%. The impact on the individual investments
would vary.
11.           Changes in the potential sales price of the estate and increases in project costs will
have a negative impact on project viability, especially for Lysynychi in Lviv and Buildings Nos. 7
and 8 in Odesa. The investments in Odesa are not considered to be at significant risk from price
fluctuations since they are located in well established neighborhoods in the more popular southern
sections of the city. The Lysynychi site in Lviv is more vulnerable since it is located on the fringe of
the city. However, demand for new housing is expected to be strong over the short term, especially
as city center areas are developed for commercial use. Private developers, including international
firms, are interested more in developing the city center areas for commercial use and/or high income
residences. This would require relocating existing residents and consolidating many of the smaller
apartments into larger apartments or offices. New housing construction is limited so that the
apartments constructed through the project should be attractive for developers to provide as relocation



Annex I
Page 5 of 8
sites for residents when acquiring city center buildings. Cost increases are a significant risk; costs
should be monitored closely during project implementation.
12.           Without the project, the foundation and building work carried out to date would have
deteriorated and the previous investments lost.



Annex I
Page 6 of 8
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Economic Analysis Summary
A. Lviv: Lysynychi
Basic Assumptions:
Est. Market Price     $190/sq. m.    Av. Apartment Size    60 sq. m.    Av. Sales Price   $11,500
Project Flows: in US$ millions, in constant 1995 prices
1996       1997        1998        1999        2000        2001
Apartments Sold                           -           -         300         204           -           -
Price Per Apartment                       -           -       0.012       0.012           -           -
Benefits (sales revenues)             0.000       0.000       3.450       2.346       0.000       0.000
Investment Costs                      1.075       2.851       0.833       0.000       0.000       0.000
Net Flows                            -1.075      -2.851       2.617       2.346       0.000       0.000
EIRR                                   14%               .
Note: 15% (relative share of these housing units to overall site development) of off site infrastructure costs charged to housing
development costs.
B. Odesa: Moldovanka
Basic Assumptions:
Est. Market Price     $490/sq. m.    Av. Apartment Size    70 sq. m.    Av. Sales Price   $34,000
Project Flows: in US$ millions, in constant 1995 prices
Year                                   1996        1997        1998        1999        2000        2001
Apartments Sold                           -           -           -          38          19           -
Price Per Apartment                       -           -           -       0.034       0.034           -
Benefits (sales revenues)             0.000       0.000       0.000       1.292       0.646       0.000
Investment Costs                      0.299       0.288       0.672       0.000       0.000       0.000
Net Flows                             -0.299     -0.288      -0.672       1.292       0.646       0.000
EIRR                                   23%



Annex I
Page 7 of 8
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Economic Analysis Sunima
C. Odesa: Building No. 42
Basic Assumptions:
Est. Market Price     $260/sq. m.   Av. Apartment Size    55 sq. m.    Av. Sales Price   $14,000
Project Flows: in US$ millions, in constant 1995 prices
1996       1997        1998        1999       2000        2001
Apartments Sold                  -           -           -           80          80         -
Price Per Apartment              -           -           -           0.014       0.014      -
Benefits (sales revenues)        0.000       0.000       0.000       1.120       1.120      0.000
Investment Costs                 0.222       0.670       0.244       0.000       0.000      0.000
Net Flows                        -0.222      -0.670      -0.244      1.120       1.120      0.000
EIRR                             31%
D. Odesa: Building No. I
Basic Assumptions:
Est. Market Price     $340/sq. m.   Av. Apartment Size    65 sq. m.    Av. Sales Price   $22,000
Project Flows: in US$ millions, in constant 1995 prices
1996       1997        1998        1999       2000        2001
Apartments Sold                  -           -           35          30          -          -
Price Per Apartment              -           -           0.022       0.022       -          -
Benefits (sales revenues)        0.000       0.000       0.770       0.660       0.000      0.000
Investment Costs                  0.211       0.492      0.000       0.000       0.000      0.000
Net Flows                        -0.211      -0.492      0.770       0.660      0.000       0.000
EIRR                             50%         _



Annex I
Page 8 of 8
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Economic Analysis Summary
E. Odesa: Buildings No. 38 & 38B
Basic Assumptions:
Est. Market Price     $270/sq. m.   Av. Apartment Size    55 sq. m.    Av. Sales Price   $15,000
Project Flows: in US$ millions, in constant 1995 prices
1996       1997        1998        1999        2000       2001
Apartments Sold                   -          -           98          100         -
Price Per Apartment               -          -           0.015       0.015       -
Benefits (sales revenues)         0.000      0.000       1.470       1.500       0.000       0.000
Investment Costs                  0.475       1.132      0.000       0.000       0.000       0.000
Net Flows                         -0.475     -1.132      1.470       1.500       0 000       0.000
EIRR                            141%       1           l
F. Odesa: Buildings No. 7 & 8
Basic Assumptions:
Est. Market Price     $390/sq. m.   Av. Apartment Size    100 sq. m.   Av. Sales Price   $39,000
Project Flows: in US$ millions, in constant 1995 prices
1996       1997        1998        1999        2000       2001
Apartments Sold                   -          -           38          -           -           -
Price Per Apartment               -          -           39          -           -           -
Benefits (sales revenues)         0.000      0.000       1.482       0.000       0.000       0.000
Investment Costs                  0.380      0.861       0.000       0.000       0.000       0.000
Net Flows                        -0.380      -0.861      1.482       0.000       0.000       0.000
EIRR                              14%



Annex J
Page 1 of 7
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Environmental Aspect
1.             The environmental aspects of the project investments were discussed with the city
officials during project preparation and appraisal. The project is expected to have minimal negative
environmental impact. The project will be completing housing construction or development of
housing sites planned and initiated by the city administrations. The sites in Kharkiv and Lviv are
existing sites, located on the city fringe, in areas planned for urban development, adjacent to existing
housing development. In Odesa, only completion of buildings in existing, developed housing areas is
included in the project. Water supply, drainage, sewer and other infrastructure requirements have
been incorporated in the site designs. Some potential environmental impacts have been identified and
mitigation measures initiated: e.g. raising the site at Kharkiv through filling to reduce the possibility
of flooding. There is the possibility of some soil erosion and dust generated during development of
land in Kharkiv and Lviv and control measures will be included in the construction plans. The
project is expected to have a positive impact on people's standard of living through design
improvements in apartment layout, ventilation, heat control and energy efficiency. The possible
environmental impact of the investments in Kharkiv, Lviv and Odesa are discussed below; a check of
the potential negative environmental impact for the site developments in Kharkiv and Lviv following
the Bank's Environmental Assessment Sourcebook1t is presented in tabular form at the end of this
Annex.
A. Kharkiv
2.             Present Situation  The proposed site is located at the intersection of Shevchenko
Street and Geroyev Truda Street, 7 km. from the city center in the northeastern part of Kharkiv City.
The site is surrounded by well developed residential areas and a recreational zone with an artificial
lake. The surrounding residential areas have readily available shops, cinema, schools and other social
facilities. They are served by buses and electric trams which provides convenient access to the city
center, other parts of the city and a subway station 2.4 km. away from the proposed site. There are
no major industrial facilities located in the vicinity; the industrial zones are located south of the city.
3.             The Shevchenko Street site is an attractive site with access to transportation, shops,
social and recreational facilities. It is situated between existing residential districts and is surrounded
by two streets with tram and bus services, connecting site with the city center and a subway station.
It is an attractive location with recreational facilities (an artificial lake and green space) close by.
Previously, the site had been used for agricultural purposes, primarily small garden plots for urban
households.
4.             Proposed Investments The project will finance the provision of water, drainage,
sewerage, heating, electricity, gas and roads to develop approximately 6.5 ha. at Shevchenko Street
site of which about 6 ha. will be sold to private developers for construction of residential buildings.
Due to zoning regulations, the buildings should be limited to 1-4 storey single family or multi-family
18/ Based on guidelines for "Large Scale Housing Project" in the Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, Volume II (Sectoral
Guidelines), Chapter Nine, "Population, Health and Nutrition; Transportation; Urban Development; Water Supply and
Sewerage. "



Annex J
Page 2 of 7
apartment blocks. The estimated cost is US$2.0 million. No works have been carried out to date.
However, the site already has access to trunk infrastructure of the adjacent residential areas, which
have sufficient capacity to supply also the new site.
5.             Environmental Impact The project is expected to have minimal negative
environmental impact. The Shevchenko Street site is located adjacent to existing apartment buildings
in established residential areas. Industrial facilities are not located in the vicinity. The area is flat.
Previously, the site had been used primarily for some small urban garden plots. The city carried out
preliminary analysis of geological conditions of the site and concluded that the site is suitable for the
proposed development. Additional analysis of the site conditions will be carried out during design
works and mitigation measures will be implemented as necessary. A check of potential negative
environmental impact was carried out and the results are presented in tabular form at the end of this
Annex.
6.             The possibility of excessive dust and loss of soil exists during construction. Proper
control measures (such as silt fencing, temporary silt basins, etc) will be required and implemented
during project implementation. This will be reflected in the bid documents.
B. Lviv
7.             Present Situation The project site (Lysynychi) is located on the eastern periphery of
Lviv City. It is located on an open hillside with good views in all directions. On one side, it is
adjacent to single family residences, a cemetery and another housing development (Microrayon No.
M-61) which is partially completed and inhabited. The other side overlooks agricultural fields.
There are no industrial sites, major factories or other sources of air, noise and water pollution nearby.
8.             The site is approximately 5.5 km from the city center (City Hall) and is currently
served by bus. Transportation access is expected to improve significantly when a planned ring road
for Lviv City is completed sometime in the future.
9.             The project is part of a larger housing development (Microrayon M-62) for which
construction of the infrastructure and some of the buildings had been started. Microrayon M-62 was
planned as a community with residences, shops, kindergarten, schools and other social facilities. The
total planning area is 21 ha. Construction of the main utility lines (water supply, sewerage, district
heating system, electricity, etc) linking the site to the municipal systems has been started but stopped
due to lack of funds. Construction is underway for two enterprise housing buildings at Lysynychi.
Lviv City Administration started construction on six buildings, work on which has also stopped due to
lack of funds.
10.            Proposed Investments The project will include completion of municipal housing and
development of part of the Lysynychi site. Financing will be provided for water, sewerage, gas,
electricity, heating, road and other infrastructure facilities for the development of approximately ha.
8.7 of land, of which ha. 5 can be sold to developers for residential construction. Part of this
infrastructure has already been constructed and the project will be financing the missing links. Total
cost of infrastructure provision is estimated to be US$4.1 million. Six partially constructed municipal
residential buildings will be completed at Lysynychi district for a total of around 500 apartments.
The estimated cost of housing completion is US$4.3 million.



Annex J
Page 3 of 7
11.           Environmental Impact The project is expected to have minimal negative
environmental impact. The Lysynychi is located on the fringe of Lviv City, on a hill top in rolling
terrain, adjacent to existing residential areas. It has no known cultural or historic value. There are
no industrial facilities or other sources of pollution nearby. The site is already partially developed.
Drainage, sewerage and other infrastructure planned for the estate and completed through the project
will minimize any negative spillover effects to the surrounding areas. A check of potential negative
environmental impact was carried out using the Bank's Environmental Assessment Sourcebook; the
results are presented in tabular form at the end of this Annex.
12.          The possibility of excessive dust and loss of soil exists during construction. Proper
control measures will be required and implemented through during project implementation. The
project is expected to have a positive impact on people's standard of living through design
improvements in apartment layout, ventilation, heat control and energy efficiency.
C. Odesa
13.          Proposed Investments The project will finance completion of seven residential
buildings for a total of around 520 apartments with about 31,000 sq.m. gross area of space. The
estimated cost of completion is US$8.3 million. The seven buildings are not located in one area (as
in Lviv) but are spread out in Vuzovsky, Yuzhny and Moldovanka districts in the southeni part of
Odesa in established residential neighborhoods. The southern part Odesa, where many of the beaches
on the Black Sea and recreational facilities are located, is considered to be one of the more desirable
residential areas.
14.           Environmental Impact The project is not expected to have a negative environmental
impact. The buildings are located in established housing areas with access to transportation,
infrastructure and municipal services. There are no industrial areas, large factories or other sources
of air, noise or water pollution located in the vicinity of these buildings. The foundations are already
in place and no historic or cultural facilities or waste or other problems were discovered during
construction. Therefore, a separate check list for each of the building sites was not prepared.
15.          The project is expected to have a positive impact on people's standard of living
through design improvements in apartment layout, ventilation, heat control and energy efficiency.



Annex J
Page 4 of 7
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Environmental Aspects
A. Kharkiv: Shevchenko Street Site
[     Potential Negative Inpact              Estim-ated =mpact                Mitigating Measures
1.    Displacement of Existing    The site is designated for          None required.
Land Uses                   residential use. The site is located
adjacent to existing housing
development.
2.    Destruction of               Site previously used for some small   None required.
Environmentally Sensitive   urban family garden plots. There
Areas                       is no environmentally sensitive area
at the site.
3.    Danger to Residents From     The site is located in a flat plain  During construction, special
Hazardous Natural           area. Filling and water            attention will be paid to proper
Conditions                  management will be provided as      measures to minimize soil erosion
precautionary measure to protect  in case of heavy rain/flooding.
the site from possible flooding from
the Kharkiv River.
4.    Danger to Residents from     The site is not a known dumping    None required.
Hazardous Manmade           site. Geological survey carried out
Conditions                  by a local engineering firm as part
of city administration's site
investigation did not turn up any
hazardous conditions.
5.    Hazard to Residents from     No factories or other sources of   None required.
Air, Water or Noise         air, noise or water pollution located
Pollution From Other        nearby.
Adjacent or Nearby Land
Use
6.    Hazard to Residents from     Not applicable.                    None required.
Air Pollution Due to Site
Location Being in an Area
Subject to Frequent
Temperature Inversions
7.    Dislocation of Existing      Not applicable. Site not occupied.    None required.
Resident Population
8.    Destruction of Historic or   No historical or cultural resources  None required.
Cultural Resources          involved or found during prior
works.
9.    Overloading of Existing      Site designed as part of overall city    Appropriate permits will be
Infrastructure or Services  development plan.                  obtained from the city
administration.



Annex J
Page 5 of 7
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Environmental Aspects
A. Kharkiv: Shevchenko Street Site
Potential Negative Impact   |         Estimated Impact                 Mitigating Measures
10.   Excessive Depletion of      Construction industry facing excess    None required.
Resources such as Lumber    capacity due to economic recession.
or Fuel, or Overtaxing of   Resources will not be depleted.
Traditional Industries, such
as Brickmaking
11.   Damage to Sites and their   Site located adjacent to existing  None required.
Immediate Surrounding       housing development and part of
Resulting from Disruption   city development plan. Site
of the Basic Natural        development planned to conform to
Framework of the           land use in adjacent areas. Area
Environment, in Particular    graded to manage runoff; lakes
the Soils, Vegetation, and  have been built in adjacent areas as
Drainage Network.           part of overall water management
plan.
12.   Degradation of Habitats     Site development planned to       None required.
Caused by Fragmentation     conform to land use in adjacent
areas as part of overall city plan.
No degradation of habitats
expected.
13.   More Extreme Flood-         Site included in the water        During planning and construction,
Drought Cycles, Increased   management plan for the area.     proper drainage systems will be
Erosion and Siltation and                                     developed.
Degradation of Stream
Biota and Riparian
Vegetation, etc., Caused by
Increased Runoff From
Developed Sites
14.   Depletion and/or Pollution  Water and sewer will be provided  None required.
of Local Groundwater        through municipal system. No
Resources                   depletion or pollution of ground
water expected.
15.   Degradation of Soil Cover    Possible soil erosion during     Erosion control plans to be part of
From Erosion, Removal, or   construction.                     construction plan and will be
Loss of Soil Due to                                           reflected in bid documents.
Compaction
16.   Loss or Degradation of      Site partially covered with weeds.  Degradation of vegetation will be
Vegetation From                                               minimized.
Unnecessary Removal or
Mechanical Damage
17.   Degradation of Habitat      Not applicable. Site already part  None required.
from Inappropriate          of the urban area.
management or Introduction
of Invasive Exotic Species



Annex J
Page 6 of 7
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Enviromnental Aspects
B. Lviv: Lysynychi
Potential Negative Impact   |          Estimated Impact         |       Mitigating Measuete        l
1.    Displacement of Existing    The site has already been partially  None required.
Land Uses                   developed for residential use. The
site is located adjacent to existing
housing development.
2.    Destruction of               Site is located next to existing   None required.
Environmentally Sensitive   residential areas and is already
Areas                       partially developed. Site
previously used for agricultural
purposes.
3.    Danger to Residents From     Site is located on a hill top in   None required.
Hazardous Natural           rolling terrain and is not subject to
Conditions                  flooding, landslides or other
predictable natural hazards.
4.    Danger to Residents from     The site is not a known dumping    None required.
Hazardous Manmade           site for municipal, industrial or
Conditions                  hazardous waste. No hazards
found during work on partially
constructed buildings.
5.    Hazard to Residents from     Not applicable. No factories or    None required.
Air, Water or Noise         other sources of air, noise or water
Pollution From Other        pollution located nearby.
Adjacent or Nearby Land
Use
6.    Hazard to Residents from     Not applicable.                    None required.
Air Pollution Due to Site
Location Being in an Area
Subject to Frequent
Temperature Inversions
7.    Dislocation of Existing      Not applicable. Site not occupied.    None required.
Resident Population
8.    Destruction of Historic or   Not applicable. Site is located    None required.
Cultural Resources          outside the historic city core. No
known historic or cultural value at
the site and none found during
previous construction.
9.    Overloading of Existing      Site design includes provision of  Permits will be obtained prior to
Infrastructure or Services  water, sewer, drainage and other   construction.
infrastructure in line with overall
city development plans.



Annex J
Page 7 of 7
UKRAINE
HOUSING PROJECT
Environrmental AsRects
B. Lviv: Lysynychi
Potential Negative Impact  J          Estimated Impact        J        Mitigating Measurs       1
10.   Excessive Depletion of      No natural resources at site.     None required.
Resources such as Lumber    Construction industry facing excess
or Fuel, or Overtaxing of   capacity due to economic recession.
Traditional Industries, such
as Brickmaking
11.   Damage to Sites and their   Site development plan provides for    None required.
Immediate Surrounding       drainage, sewerage and other
Resulting from Disruption   infrastructure to avoid negative
of the Basic Natural        spill over effects into surrounding
Framework of the            areas.
Environment, in Particular
the Soils, Vegetation, and
Drainage Netwvork.
12.   Degradation of Habitats     Not applicable. No natural habitats   None required.
Caused by Fragmentation     affected by site. Site plan provides
for green space.
13.   More Extreme Flood-         Possible runoff from site may cause   Adequate drainage provided at
Drought Cycles, Increased   erosion.                          site.
Erosion and Siltation and
Degradation of Stream
Biota and Riparian
Vegetation, etc., Caused by
Increased Runoff From
Developed Sites
14.   Depletion and/or Pollution  Water to be provided through      None required.
of Local Groundwater        municipal water system.
Resources
15.   Degradation of Soil Cover    Possible soil erosion, dust during  Erosion control plan to be part of
From Erosion, Removal, or   construction.                     construction plan and will be
Loss of Soil Due to                                           reflected in the bid documents.
Compaction
16.   Loss or Degradation of      Not applicable. Site already      None required.
Vegetation From             partially developed.
Unnecessary Removal or
Mechanical Damage
17.   Degradation of Habitat      There is no habitat at the site.  None required.
from Inappropriate
management or Introduction
of Invasive Exotic Species



MAP SECTION



20                                 \        251                                         30 0                     )35                                                           Aa
X   J  B  E  L  A  R  U  S  4 ¢  >8.8U.&r  ..  b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    ....
p O L A N D , r-._ - Sg_ f a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN    FEDERATION    *-d- ----iX9
X    ?            ;                 . ce~~~~~~~~ ~~herno  / 
1t.   '<       O~~~Rivne                      Resri,      .Sm   
SLOVAK                                    Te>  (f7Kmopip>:,o ,,  <Rlv  -/,
'~~~* J~~UzhlorA~           Frrznvkinvsk                                                                                                                                       0.8   ,--eru ',Y   
HUNGARY                                              -                                                                                    j,-.<t. 1sO@< Anipropetrovsk Luos 
1r  _                        ChernivtisN   'b<                                              Kirovohrod  <-c                  t)~ 
ROMANIA              4.                                     '                                      2       Kyy  i          OZaportzhzhia<       
{         y                    '        . MO~~~~LDOVA   tt                                       -                  
U  K R A  I N  E                                  ---               f                        mYkI;                     n        M;O;   
HOUSING PROJECT 1 -Yro  ---SA'
POPULATIONS OF PROJECT CITIES:*                                     j/ _ 
2.6 MILLION MaV                                        t                                                                ^                   _,RUSSIAN
1 6 MILLION OHAV                                      ,                                                                                                        FEDERATION
0.8 MILLION W1V                                        2                                                                                
1 2 MILLION OEA                         4               ;        ' ;TOO;;
O     SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES                                         _                                                SYmferop;l 
NAT10NAL CAPITAL                                                                                       SeaStop;il
AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC OR
_               08~~~~~OLAST BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                     KILOM50E00T   10RS
Z     -B~~~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES\'I                                                                                                                           .I      IIIJ
>       _                                     ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~BULGARIA'-  3 r                                                35C    °LESLr                             5



IMAGING
Report No:       15033 UA
Type: SAR



