Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER
3985
UA
Kharkiv Project Agreement
(Housing Project)
 
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KHARKIV
Dated December
19, 1996
 
LOAN NUMBER
3985
UA
KHARKIV PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December
19, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and KHARKIV (Kharkiv).
 
WHEREAS
(A)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
UKRAINE
(the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seventeen million Dollars
($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Kharkiv
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth
in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Kharkiv, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to Kharkiv on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Kharkiv Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS Kharkiv, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section
1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section
2.01. (a) Kharkiv declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out Part B.1 of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and Kharkiv shall otherwise agree,
Kharkiv shall:
(i)
establish and maintain, until the completion of the
Project, a city executing unit
(CEU) and ensure that
the CEU functions at all times in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and is at all
times staffed by personnel with qualifications,
terms of reference and experience satisfactory to the
Bank;
(ii)
by December
31, 1996, prepare a marketing and sales
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the sale of land
developed under Part B.1 of the Project, which plan
shall include provisions related to the method and
administration of sales through an open auction,
advertisement procedures, documentation, and contract-
ing provisions;
(iii)
offer for sale through an open auction all land
developed under Part B.1 of the Project in accordance
with the plan referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of
this paragraph;
(iv)
auction land in accordance with the provisions of the
Kharkiv Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(v)
assist the Borrower to carry out the Land and Building
Regulations Study referred to in Section
3.02
(a)
of
the Loan Agreement.
 
Section
2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the works required for Part B.1 of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
 
Section
2.03. Kharkiv shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to use of services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively
)
in respect of the
Kharkiv Project Agreement and Part B.1 of the Project.
 
Page  3
Section
2.04. Kharkiv shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Kharkiv Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, Kharkiv shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Kharkiv Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
 
Section
2.05. (a) Kharkiv shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Kharkiv Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
 
(b)
Kharkiv shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by
Kharkiv of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Kharkiv
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs
(a) and
(b) of this Section, Kharkiv shall:
 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as
may be agreed for this purpose between Kharkiv and the
Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with Kharkiv on said plan.
 
Section
2.06.
Kharkiv shall: (a) 
maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on a continuous basis, in
accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out
of Part B.1 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank on or about March
1,
1997, a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph
(a)
of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June
1,
1997, or such later date as
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph
(b) of
this Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of Part B.1 of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
 
Section
2.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6)
months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the
Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
 
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Management and Operations of Kharkiv
Section
3.01. Kharkiv shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineer-
ing practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced manage-
ment assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers
.
Section
3.02. Kharkiv shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section
4.01. (a) Kharkiv shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B.1 of the
Project of the departments and agencies of Kharkiv responsible for
carrying out Part B.1 of the Project.
 
(b)
Kharkiv shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six
(6) 
months after the end of
each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section
5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
 
Section
5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of Kharkiv thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify Kharkiv thereof.
 
Section
5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspen-
sion under the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section
6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
Page  5
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing
.
Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when
it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the
party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688
(TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423
(RCA),
64145
(WUI) or
82987
(FTCC)
 
For Kharkiv:
Principal Department for
Economic Development
Executive Committee of
Kharkiv City Rada
pl. Sovetskoi Ukraini, 7
Kharkiv
Ukraine
Section
6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of Kharkiv may be taken or executed by the Head of the
Principal Department for Economic Development or such other person or
persons as the Head of the Principal Department for Economic Develop-
ment shall designate in writing, and Kharkiv shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
 
Section
6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Wafik Grais
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
KHARKIV
Page  6
By
/s/ Yuli Shcherbak
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Works
Part A:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph
5
of
Appendix
1
thereto.
 
2.
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs
2.9
and
2.10
of the Guidelines.
 
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs
2
and
3
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
