Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3985 UA
                        Odesa Project Agreement
                           (Housing Project)
                                between
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                                  and
                                 ODESA
                        Dated December 19, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3985 UA
                        ODESA PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ODESA (Odesa).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
UKRAINE (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seventeen million Dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Odesa
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth
in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Odesa, the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to Odesa on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Odesa Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS Odesa, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obli-
gations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
Page  2
                               Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                               ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Odesa declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part A.2 of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and Odesa shall otherwise agree,
Odesa shall:
          (i)  establish and maintain, until the completion of the
               Project, a city executing unit (CEU) and ensure that
               the CEU functions at all times in accordance with
               procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and is at all
               times staffed by personnel with qualifications,
               terms of reference and experience satisfactory to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  by December 31, 1996, prepare a marketing and sales
               plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the sale of
               residential buildings completed under Part A.2 of the
               Project, which plan shall include provisions related
               to the method and administration of sales, through
               an open auction, advertisement procedures, documen-
               tation, and contracting provisions;
        (iii)  offer for sale through an open auction all residential
               buildings completed under Part A.2 of the Project in
               accordance with the plan referred to in sub-paragraph
               (ii) of this paragraph;
         (iv)  auction land in accordance with the provisions of the
               Odesa Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
          (v)  ensure that its activities in the residential con-
               struction area are consistent with the State Housing
               Policy concept, adopted by the Borrower on June 30,
               1995, in order to foster competitive conditions in
               the housing market in Odesa; and
         (vi)  assist the Borrower to carry out the Land and Building
               Regulations Study referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of
               the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the works required for Part A.2 of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. Odesa shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to use of services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
in respect of the Odesa Project Agreement and Part A.2 of the Project.
     Section 2.04. Odesa shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Odesa Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, Odesa shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Page  3
Odesa Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) Odesa shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Odesa Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Odesa shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by
Odesa of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Odesa
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of this Section, Odesa shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
               months after the Closing Date or such later date as
               may be agreed for this purpose between Odesa and the
               Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
               and
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with Odesa on said plan.
     Section 2.06.  Odesa shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on a continuous basis,
in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying
out of Part A.2 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank on or about March 1, 1997, a report integrat-
ing the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to the paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A.2 of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by June 1, 1997, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of Part A.2 of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the
matter.
     Section 2.07.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the
Project; and (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
                               ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of Odesa
     Section 3.01. Odesa shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. Odesa shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
Page  4
sistent with appropriate practice.
                              ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) Odesa shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A.2
of the Project of the departments and agencies of Odesa responsible
for carrying out Part A.2 of the Project.
     (b)  Odesa shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
               able to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as
               well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of Odesa thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify Odesa thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspen-
sion under the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  5
          United States of America
          Cable address:              Telex:
               INTBAFRAD              197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.       248423 (RCA),
                                       64145 (WUI) or
                                       82987 (FTCC)
     For Odesa:
          Department of Construction
          Executive Committee of Odesa
            City Rada
          St. Komitetskaya (Zagubanskogo), 10A
          Odesa
          Ukraine
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of Odesa may be taken or executed by the Head of
Department, Department of Construction, Executive Committee of Odesa
or such other person or persons as the Head of Department shall
designate in writing, and the Head of Department shall furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States, as
of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Wafik Grais
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                Europe and Central Asia
               ODESA
               By /s/ Yuli Shcherbak
                                               Authorized Representative
                                  SCHEDULE
                                 Procurement
Section I.     Procurement of Works
Part A:   General
     Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
Page  6
1.   Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph
5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for works, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
