                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 33993

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (TF-27744 CPL-41350 PPFB-P2930)

                                         ON A

                                  LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3.7 MILLION

                                           TO

                                       LITHUANIA

                                         FOR A

                       SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SERVICES




                                    November 10, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective )

                               Currency Unit = Litas
                                      Litas 1 = US$ 0.34
                                       US$ 1 = Litas 2.88

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASR     Annual Social Report
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
LT      Lithuania
MC      Methodological Centers
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MSSL    Ministry of Social Security and Labor
PCU     Project Coordinating Unit
PEF     Policy Evaluation Fund
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SSIDP   Social Service Infrastructure Development Program
SPP     Strategic Partnership Program




                              Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director     Daniela Gressani
                            Sector Manager      Hermann von Gersdorff
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Vilija Kostelnickiene

                                         LITHUANIA
               Social Policy & Community Social Services Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P008539                                                  Project Name: Social Policy & Community Social
                                                                     Services Development Project
Team Leader: Vilija Kostelnickiene                                   TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Policy & Community Social Services                L/C/TF Number: TF-27744; CPL-41350;
                            Development Project                                                      PPFB-P2930
   Country/Department: LITHUANIA                                                          Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (85%); Central government administration
                            (15%)
                  Theme: Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (P); Social safety nets (P);
                            Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (P); Improving labor
                            markets (S); Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/28/1994                                     Effective: 03/18/1998                01/13/1998
     Appraisal: 10/13/1995                                         MTR: 05/15/2000                  05/23/2000
      Approval: 02/18/1997                                      Closing: 10/01/2002                 05/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA/MINISTRY OF SOCIAL SECURITY& LABOR
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               Daniela Gressani                               Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Director:                Charles C. Griffin                             Thomas Blinkhorn
Team Leader at ICR:             Vilija Kostelnickiene                          Louise Fox
ICR Primary Author:             Inguna Dobraja


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context. The objectives and design of the Social Policy and Community Social Services Development
project need to be assessed in the context of (i) a transition to a market economy and structural changes
which imposed costs on some households, particularly the poor and those at the margin, and induced the
need for various types of assistance, and (ii) political, institutional and fiscal conditions that urged the
establishment of a fiscally sound social safety net that targets scarce social protection resources to the most
vulnerable and addresses the issue of social policy design, monitoring and evaluation.

At the time of project preparation, Lithuania's social security system had undergone some changes in its
structure, financing and administration. However, it still retained many features of a Soviet type social
security system that were not adequate to address the newly emerging and rapidly growing variety of
assistance needs. The system was fiscally unsustainable and inefficient. When families, children or elderly
had severe social or economic difficulties, community-based help (services such as counselling, job
training, child care, material assistance and outreach programs) was almost non existent. The primary
means of assistance was residential institutions which hid rather then addressed the real problem. The
Government recognized the need to improve and re-orient this aspect of the social safety net.
The institutional structure and the capacity to develop and implement social policies were also quite weak.
The role of the Ministry of Social Security and Labor was limited to conveying, interpreting and clarifying
rules and regulations without proper analytical work done to track policy implications or to analyze and
assess various policy options.

During project preparation, the existing policy framework was jointly reviewed by the Ministry of Social
Security and Labor (MSSL) and the Bank and a medium term policy agenda was prepared. Based on that,
the Government adopted a new policy focus in the delivery of social assistance and social care that included
a commitment to family and the community as the primary location for raising children and caring for
elderly. The Government was also committed to undertake the institutional changes necessary to support
the realization of new policy goals.

Objectives. The objective of the Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project was to
support the Government of Lithuania in providing social security to the population at an affordable cost
through institutional development activities to improve: (i) the capacity to analyze social policy at all
stages; and (ii) community social care services.        This would be achieved through the institutional
development of the MSSL. The project would assist the Government in the following areas: (a) developing
the capacity of the MSSL to design, implement, monitor and evaluate social safety net policies; (b)
reducing institutionalization of groups at risk (the handicapped, the elderly, etc.) through the development,
testing, and replication of new community-based social service models; and (c) developing MSSL project
management capacity.

The objectives were well balanced: they were clear, realistic and specific. They were also broad enough to
allow for adequate flexibility to respond to changing needs and, therefore, relevant throughout the duration
of the project. The agreed objectives were a result of extensive analytical work preceding the project,
responsiveness to the Government priorities and existing capacity, and strong partnership in developing
project objectives that ensured strong Borrower's commitment. The project objectives were consistent with
the Government's new policy initiatives and they were in line with the Lithuania Country Assistance
Strategy (1994, Report No. 13677-LT), which highlighted three priority areas of creating policy and
institutional environment which would be more conducive to private investment, strengthening of financial



                                                     - 2 -

institutions, and reorientation of social safety nets, public services and infrastructure to the needs of market
economy. These objectives remained relevant in the Lithuania CAS (1999, Report No.19135-LT) which
urged to improve the efficiency of social protection system and address coverage issues.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

There were three original project components:

Component 1. Social Policy Development (Project base costs - US$2.60 million). The objective of this
component was to support the development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the MSSL social
policy agenda. It sought to improve the allocation of human and financial resources within the Ministry
through a strategic planning approach, so that scarce organizational resources would be used more
effectively and priority policy development and evaluation addressed. The component also aimed to
strengthen the capacity of the Ministry to develop workable social policy solutions to be presented to the
MSSL's clients, including Government, Parliament, and the municipalities. It also supported the local
capacity to prepare high quality social policy analyses.

The reform program included two subcomponents focused on: (a) improved resource use in the MSSL
(including support to the implementation of the strategic plan for social policy development, containing
mission statement, corporate objectives, clear lines of financial and managerial subordination, agreed
indicators of performance); support to the implementation of the management and administration training
program and the development of the MSSL personnel unit; and (b) policy monitoring, evaluation and
implementation (including the preparation of an Annual Social Report, establishment of applied training
program, support to the MSSL Policy Evaluation Fund (PEF).

Component 2. Community Social Service Pilot Projects (Project base costs - US$7.08 million). The
component supported the development of a feasible, cost-effective approach to social service delivery that
would be community based and responsive to local needs. The component aimed to support a social
assistance delivery system that results in fewer individuals being placed in institutional care and better
coordination of the delivery of cash and non-cash benefits to the clients. The reform program included
three subcomponents focused on: (a) establishment of multi-service centers for the elderly, families with
children and people with disabilities (including support to three pilot services in Vilnius, Siauliai and
Svencionys serving various vulnerable groups - mentally handicapped young adults, elderly, families with
children, former prisoners); (b) establishment of education centers for children with disabilities (including
support to three pilot centers in Anyksciai, Moletai and Utena aiming to prevent handicapped children
from being placed in institutions by developing services in the community and at a lower cost than
institutional placement); and (c) monitoring and evaluation (including baseline study of social service needs
and services available, analysis of funding of institutions and community services, establishment of a
computerized case monitoring system, a mid-term and final evaluation).

Component 3. Project Management (Project base costs - US$1.02 million). This component supported
the implementation of the project activities through the development of the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) thus enhancing the project management capacity in the MSSL. The PCU was established within the
MSSL and served as a Secretariat of the Project Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister. The main
responsibilities of the PCU were:(a) to coordinate, monitor and evaluate project activities; (b)to manage



                                                       - 3 -

and keep records of all procurement operations; (c) to prepare and distribute periodic reports to the relevant
government authorities and to the Bank in an agreed format.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components of this operation were not revised during the project implementation period.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Even though no formal Quality at Entry was carried out at the time of project preparation and appraisal ,
the Quality at Entry is rated as Satisfactory, based on: (i) consistency of the project objectives with the
country's priorities to provide social security to the population at an affordable cost and introducing
alternative approaches in social service delivery, as well as consistence with the Country Assistance
Strategy (November, 1994); (ii) adequacy of the project design; (iii) ownership by the counterparts of the
policy agenda and the related project strategy, evidenced by the realistic assessment of the changing
environment that led to a reduced scope of the original project design; (iv) use of pilot approach to
implement new ways of delivering social services at a local level; and (v) attention given to building the
commitment and capacity of the client to implement the project and collaborate with donors supporting the
project.

The Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) carried out in September 2004 rated quality at entry as
sound. In retrospect, one project shortcoming was the design of the key performance indicators (KPI). At
the time of project preparation it was not required to agree on a formal set of performance indicators. The
KPI were developed together and strongly supported by the Lithuanian counterparts. During the project
implementation period it turned out that these indicators had limited value in monitoring the actual
implementation and, in addition, required special instruments (surveys, specific analysis etc.) that were not
part of regular operations of government institutions.

The design of project components was clearly linked to the project objectives stated above. The project
focused on the Government's priorities, i.e. re-orienting the social safety net through institutional and
capacity development that allowed taking well informed, technically and fiscally feasible social policy
decisions, and testing and introducing new forms of social assistance forms and approaches in addressing
social services needs of vulnerable population. Since this was the first investment project designed and
implemented in the Ministry and municipalities, there were no lessons or capacity to be drawn on. Adequate
attention was given to project management and coordination arrangements at an early stage of the project.

The initial project design included a social insurance administration component. Due to changing political
and institutional circumstances, the Government asked to drop this component after appraisal.             The
component was later partially implemented with EU funding.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project has achieved its objectives and the overall outcome of the project is rated fully satisfactory.
The project has (a) introduced new approaches and instruments for institutional development that were
entirely new to Lithuania; (b) produced fully sustainable outputs which, furthermore, continue to contribute
to changing the role and performance of MSSL in social policy development; and (c) stands as a catalyst in
further improvement of social service sector.



                                                    - 4 -

The goals set for both institutional development and social service pilots were fully met. The MSSL has
developed into an institution that has the capacity to design, evaluate and monitor social policies, is
proactive and transparent in areas of responsibility and efficient in communicating that to all counterparts
at central and local government levels and the public at large. Several policy instruments that have been
developed at the initial project stages - Annual Strategic plans, Annual Social Reports, Policy Evaluation
Fund - continue to be an important part of the MSSL activities. The project activities have significantly
increased the human capacity at the MSSL - staff have acquired new skills, more time is being devoted to
strategic planning and performance monitoring, and there is an effective collaboration with other
stakeholders in public, private and nongovernmental sector. The project has created not only preconditions
for significant change in the MSSL, it has also affected the understanding and interpreting the social policy
development in the country. In addition, the early establishment of three social service pilot centers in 1998
(the PPF was used to start these pilot centers) and the quality of services provided there have been
considered as best practice in the region, and as such worked as a key factor in establishing demand for
similar centers throughout the country and the Government's response in developing and implementing a
national Social Service Infrastructure Program. Technical assistance provided under the project laid a
solid ground for further institutional and social policy development in the social service area. It also
facilitated the Ministry to prepare for EU accession and in absorption of EU structural funds in the social
area.

The most significant shortcoming of the project was that the achievement of some outputs required longer
than was originally expected. The project was extended three times for a total of 2.5 years, mainly to allow
for the implementation of the Strategic Partnership Program(see more detailed information in 4.2).

4.2 Outputs by components:

Specific outputs by components are as follows:

Component 1. Social Policy Development Component (actual cost - US$1.75 million)

This achievement of this component's objectives is rated as Satisfactory. The main objective of the
component was to support the development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the government's
social policy agenda through improved resource use of the Ministry of Social Security and Labor and
enhanced policy monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The project activities helped the government to
deliver the following:

l since 1999 Annual Strategic plans have been introduced and have become an instrument for overall
    MSSL activity planning, successful preparation of new legislation, developing strategic approach to
    policy development and monitoring and evaluation of policies in a systemic way. The internal structure
    of the Ministry and job profiles of core staff have been revised so that staff now devote their time to the
    core activities: policy design, monitoring and evaluation;
l through various training activities, MSSL staff have acquired and enhanced core competencies needed
    for public administration and strategic management, planning, budgeting and project management
    (SWOT analysis, stakeholders' analysis, project cycle management). Part of the capacity building
    program focused on strengthening applied research, policy monitoring and evaluation skills. 22
    seminars and workshops were organized to improve the skills of the MSSL staff and of its key
    counterparts in analyzing and monitoring social policies regularly. As a result, the MSSL currently
    proves to be a highly effective ministry that has one of the lowest levels of staff turnover among
    government institutions in Lithuania;
l since 1998 seven Annual Social Reports (ASR) have been prepared and published serving as a source



                                                     - 5 -

   of information for different stakeholders. From its first publication it was highly acclaimed by the
   government, academia and public. This probably is the most tangible and visible output of this
   component . The ASR is publicly available through the Ministry's webpage in Lithuanian and in
   English and serves as a tool of communication within the MSSL and with other stakeholders. Although
   the ASR is the main source of information of changes in social policy and provides a comprehensive
   collection of social policy indicators, the policy evaluation part of the ASR could be further
   strengthened;
l The Policy Evaluation Fund (PEF) contributed to the strengthening of the social policy research
   community in Lithuania and highlighted the importance of independent social policy research for the
   analysis and evaluation of policy impact. The PEF expanded the range and improved the quality and
   relevance of social policy analysis. The PEF receives budget allocation of 120,000 Lt (US$43,000
   equivalent) on an annual basis. While small in size, the PEF established the practice of outsourcing
   research by introducing a competitive tender procedure. The PEF supported 14 research projects that
   were conducted in different areas: policies for persons with disabilities, labor market issues, programs
   for social-economic monitoring in target regions, etc.;
l The Strategic Partnership Program (SPP) as an element of monitoring and evaluation evolved during
   the project life time: it was renewed, modified and grew into a bigger social assistance information
   system beyond the initial intentions to collect administrative information.The aim of these partnerships
   was to provide the MSSL at the central level with data needed for monitoring and evaluation of social
   policies in a decentralized system, and, at the same time, provide municipalities with a tool to monitor
   social policy implementation locally. The initial SPP was introduced and assessed (1999-2001). This
   assessment allowed to identify technical, methodological and conceptual problems of original SPP. In
   order to address these issues, the MSSL proposed to discontinue the original SPP, redesign it and
   renew the agreements on SPP implementation. Based on the revised SPP, the MSSL requested two year
   extension of the project closing date. The project was extended for 8.5 months initially and a new
   closing date of June 15, 2003 established by which the set benchmark (contract with the software
   provider ready for signing) had to be met. Although substantial progress was achieved, the policy
   discussions with the SPP counterparts took longer than expected and the benchmark was not met in
   time. The new closing date of March 1, 2004 established. The third project closing date was granted
   to complete the procurement process and test the new SPP. Currently the renewed SPP system is in its
   early days of operation, but appears to be introduced successfully in all municipalities. Although the
   system requires additional work on capturing specific information (for example, social services), it has
   a potential to become a useful tool at both national and municipal levels.

Component 2. Community Social Service Pilot Projects (actual costs - US$12.4 million)

The achievement of this component's objectives is rated as Highly Satisfactory. The main objective of the
component was to establish and test viable and cost-effective community based services that address local
needs. Activities supported by this project delivered the following:

(i)    14 centers of social services to children, elderly and other vulnerable groups of population have
       been established and are fully integrated into social service network supported by municipalities.
       More than 10,800 clients have received new type of services in the pilot centers since the beginning
       of the project. The lessons learned and best practices developed are being used for further social
       service development in the country (see section         Additional Information).    The MSSL has
       effectively used the acquired knowledge and practices from pilot centers and this experience is
       being replicated within the framework of the Social Service Infrastructure Development Program
       (SSIDP).     This program, jointly financed by the Government and the Council of Europe
       Development Bank, is operational since 1998 and has financed 101 additional social services. The


                                                    - 6 -

        total resources allocated to the SSIDP from 1998-2004 was 29 million Lt (US$11 million
        equivalent). This program is real evidence of expansion of cost-effective community based services
        that better responds to the needs of the clients.

(ii)    Some of the social service centers have become methodological centers (MC) which are considered
        as best practice and centers of excellence and provide hands on training to staff from other relevant
        centers, and as such they became an integral part of national system for social workers
        qualifications enhancement and training. These MCs provide 11 training programs approved by the
        MSSL covering a range of specialties in social work. Roughly around 350 social workers have
        gone through one or several training courses financed by the project and it is foreseen that over a
        three year period (2005 -2008) all social workers will undergo training either using MCs or other
        training capacities.

(iii)   Three sets of quality standards for children services have been developed, tested and are being
        gradually introduced into regular practice of social services across the country. These standards
        have contributed to make social services more transparent and provide better opportunity for the
        client to choose between different forms of services. The management and the staff of the Audit
        department of the MSSL have acquired new practices in results oriented service provision and are
        capable not only to monitor outcomes and performance, but also to supervise service providers to
        improve the quality of social services.

Component 3. Project Management (actual costs - US$1.04 million)

This component's outputs are rated as satisfactory. The project was administered well and, despite the
staff changes, all the financial and procurement procedures were followed throughout the project
implementation period. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) monitored all the project activities, provided
regular reports to the Project Steering Committee and the Bank on the progress towards project objectives.
The PCU also provided its inputs in the ICR preparation. All project audit reports were delivered on time
and provided unqualified opinions.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact is rated as substantial. One of the main objectives of the project was
to implement the project activities through developing institutions and as a result the project has contributed
significantly to the institutional development in the social protection sector at a central and local levels.
The Ministry of Social Security and Labor currently proves to be a highly effective Ministry in its capacity
to analyze policies and to develop new projects. Lithuania now has a capacity to prepare independent and
sophisticated policy proposals, drawing on instruments developed under the project. The MSSL is one of
the best performers in terms of attracting EU resources for improving social welfare.

The project's training activities ensured that Lithuania has highly qualified social workers that can



                                                     - 7 -

implement and disseminate best practice social services and it has an institutional capacity to provide
training to a growing number of welfare professionals.

Lithuania has continued to develop activities that go far beyond the original scope of the project - 101
centers have followed the practices of original 14 pilot centers, the first set of service quality standards are
being followed by developing standards covering new areas of social services.

One of the most notable institutional effects is the partnership between the MSSL and municipalities that
has developed during the project implementation process. This partnership is based on mutual
understanding of main challenges of a modern social assistance system at a local level and close
cooperation in addressing these challenges. The development and implementation of the strategic
partnership agreements contributed to the capacity building in the MSSL as the staff experienced directly
the consequences of their actions with respect to the definition of indicators, expectations towards the
municipalities, communication with municipalities, feedback, etc. Currently, the strategic partnership
agreement is a highly appreciated tool both by the MSSL and the local governments.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were no major factors outside the control of government that directly affecting project outcome. The
fact worth mentioning is that, although the local governments are part of public administration, they make
independent decisions regarding the administration and resource allocation within their jurisdiction. The
MSSL as the main government body responsible for project implementation had limited possibilities to
influence the decision making process at a local level. Therefore, the implementation agreements were
signed between the MSSL and each participating municipality to ensure that the pilot project
implementation proceeds as agreed.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The overall achievements of the project were positively affected by the consistency of the top management
in the MSSL that remained in place during almost the whole project period and provided continuity in
implementing the agreed policy initiatives and project activities. The MSSL had to ensure that there is
continuous understanding of the project objectives and support to the pilot implementation, including the
provision of funding. Although participating municipalities received grant assistance to establish the centers
for social service delivery, the required financing of recurrent costs or agreed premises were not always
provided in time. It did not compromise the implementation of originally planned activities, but in some
occasions led to slower than planned implementation. The relationship with the municipalities needed to be
build on establishing real partnership between the central and local levels of government. Some of the
activities initiated by the project, for example the Strategic Partnership Program, were viewed by the
municipalities as bureaucratic information-sharing burden, rather than real partnership.                   This
misunderstanding counteracted any potential benefits derived from the early cooperation, and ultimately
caused delays in implementing the program.           A greater effort to establish a real partnership with
municipalities would have led to better understanding of the benefits of the SPP and timely design and
implementation of this program.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The MSSL was the main implementing agency for the project and it established the PCU to ensure smooth


                                                     - 8 -

implementation of the project activities and to support the project coordination. The PCU was staffed
adequately and received appropriate training. Although the top management remained committed to the
overall project objectives, the change of the government in the middle of the project implementation resulted
in a change of the several PCU staff. This led to a short-term reduction of the PCU capacity and some
delays in project implementation. Although, the knowledgeable project director returned to the PCU, there
was a need to ensure that additional training and more intensive supervision from the Bank team was
provided.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total project cost was estimated at US$ 12.31 million equivalent at appraisal,with the Bank loan of US$
3.70 million,government and municipalities contribution of US$ 4.32 million, and other donor assistance on
a grant basis in value of US$ 4.30 million. The funding to implement the Community Multi-Service and
Centers for Children with Disabilities was provided to the participating municipalities as a direct grant
assistance based on the implementation agreement between the MSSL and each municipality.            All local
recurrent costs estimated at US$ 3.93 million at appraisal would be made available by the Government and
municipalities, including the costs from administrative and operating activities of the PCU.             The
Government of Lithuania requested a Project Preparation Facility advance in the amount of US$ 0.7
million to complete the project preparation activities of which US$0.4 million was used before project
effectiveness. Actual total project cost was US$ 15.19 million, including US$ 3.61 million by the Bank,
US$ 2.84 million by other donors (SIDA US$ 2.49 million, Dutch US$ 0.35 million), and US$ 1.09
million by the Government and US$ 7.65 million by the municipalities.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project's sustainability is rated as Highly Likely. Lithuania has created within the MSSL the capacity
for policy planning, monitoring and evaluation that is facilitating the debate of the options for further
improvements in social policy.        Various instruments for policy planning and monitoring have been
developed and are being used in everyday work, including the yearly update of an annual strategic plans,
together with the preparation of strategic plans for upcoming three years and the preparation of annual
social reports. During the project life time, strategic planning was introduced in all the ministries; the
MSSL was in advanced position and served as a model to other government institutions. The legislative
framework governing the social service system is also changing - the MSSL has developed a Concept of
Social Service Reforms and is finalizing the legislation that will set out new service financing and payment
mechanism, standards for children institutions have been designed and tested and are ready for nationwide
implementation.     New standards for general and specialized social service provision are also being
developed. The process of standards development revealed the need for close coordination with the
Ministry of Education that resulted in improved ongoing cooperation. The pilot projects have established
high quality social services that are seen as the best practice and are being considered for replication in
other municipalities. The replication process is being continued through the Social Service Infrastructure
Development Program that is jointly funded by the EC Social development Fund and the Government. The
pilot centers have also facilitated the collaboration and discussion among municipalities to share the best
practices in developing community based social services.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Most of the project activities and reform agenda have already been incorporated into the regular operation
of the MSSL and implementing institutions reducing the need to have special transitional arrangements.


                                                     - 9 -

This is evidenced by: (i) introduction and full use of the annual strategic plan as an instrument for policy
development, monitoring and evaluation; (ii) strong human capacity in the MSSL with staff that is capable
of planning, evaluating and proposing policy changes; (iii) continued preparation of Annual Social Reports
that have become a forum for decision-makers and independent experts in social policy to review and set
the priorities for further development of the social policy in Lithuania - the latest report published on
Ministry website refers to 2003 (published in 2004); and (iv) continuation of the Policy Evaluation Fund
with financing social policy research projects from the budget funds; and (v) the network of community
based services is expanding with pilot projects leading the way in provision of certain type social services.

All 14 pilot centers are operational, and some of them have become Methodological Centers that carry
forward the best practices learned and provide training for social workers from other social protection
institutions.

The Government is also committed to fully implement the Strategic Partnership Program that will provide
reliable information and integrated view of the social assistance benefits and services system in the country
and could be used for improved policy analysis and evaluation.

Taking into account Lithuania's membership in the EU and the strong and independent capacity that has
been developed, no future Bank operation is planned. This is evidenced by the fact that Lithuania has been
very successful in accessing and using the resources of the EU Social Development Fund for further
improvements of its social welfare system.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in identifying and helping Lithuania counterparts to prepare the Project was
Satisfactory. The project preparation was very well founded, with strong analysis of the problems and the
solutions, very client oriented and inclusive. It was a result of intensive joint Bank/client work and was
very client driven (especially as the pilot projects were concerned). The preparation process was consistent
and focused on developing a solid policy, institutional and organizational grounds for further project
implementation. The proposed range of activities and instruments for policy monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) introduced during the project, was backed by assistance to the Bureau of Statistics to design and
implement new Household Budget Survey so that project activities were not delayed and had reliable
information for policy analysis and further restructuring of MSSL. Although there were concerns about
capacity of municipalities to deal with implementation of the project, the Bank was supportive to the
Borrower's commitment to speed up establishment of community-based service centers. To minimize
possible risks and ensure smooth implementation of pilots, all necessary preparatory arrangements such as
tendering of pilots, detailed pilot proposals including architectural plans were prepared before project
effectiveness. PPF was used for actual establishment of the first pilots which were considered as highly
successful. The initial project design included a social insurance component aiming to develop and
strengthen the capacity of the social insurance administrative agency(SODRA). The project team
negotiated with the EU to provide a grant to finance this component within the project. However, after the
appraisal the government decided to take out this component from the project and agreed with the EU that
the planned activities will be implemented by the EU directly.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance during supervision was Satisfactory. The Quality of Supervision Assessment


                                                     - 10 -

(QSA6, 2004) rated supervision as satisfactory. The project received timely advice on project
implementation. The project implementation benefitted from the fact that the Bank team essentially
remained the same since the initial project stages and there has been an excellent continuity in the task
team. Having the Task Tam Leader located in the Country Office has been very important factor to ensure
close communication and cooperation with the Borrower, especially in institution building. This was
particularly important during the project implementation (in the middle of the project) when core Project
Coordination Unit staff was replaced and project coordination capacity was affected for about one year.
This required substantial Bank team's (particularly PAS) involvement and more intensive supervision of the
project implementation activities during this project stage. Regular supervision visits combined with
sometimes intensive, daily supervision from the field identified problems at an early stage that allowed to
address these problems timely and effectively. The Bank was supportive to the Borrower's preference to
redesign the Social Partnership Program that extended the project implementation period but signalled the
responsiveness of the Bank to the client needs.

The QAG report also pointed out the limited value of key performance indicators to monitor project
progress. Although the KPIs were developed in a very participatory manner, were strongly supported by
counterparts, and were believed to be the best indicators in monitoring the project achievements, they
turned out to have limited value as monitoring indicators at a later stages of the project implementation. In
addition, measuring them required specific arrangements such as surveys, collection of information,
preparing analysis. These activities were not part of the daily work of the MSSL and required additional
staff and resources. Since the target indicators of the project were reached rather quickly, the counterparts
focused on achieving the general project objectives rather than specific indicators.

Bank management, representing ECA Vice Presidency, Sector and Country departments, on several
occasions visited pilot centers in Lithuania.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above, the overall Bank performance is considered Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's preparation performance is rated as Satisfactory, especially considering that this was the
Ministry's first project. The initial project design included a social insurance administration component,
which was dropped after appraisal at the request of the Government. Otherwise, the Government was fully
committed to the project, and it actively participated in finalizing the project design (through logframe
workshops) that reflected the key strategic goals of the Government social policy. The monitoring of the
effectiveness of social assistance system and reform of policy framework for institutional care were the key
items on policy agenda. The Government was also committed to undertake institutional changes needed to
support these policy goals and improve effectiveness of the MSSL in social policy design, monitoring and
evaluation. In addition, the MSSL was supportive to the initiatives of the municipalities to establish and
test community-based services for vulnerable groups of population therefore PPF was requested to advance
this process.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government implementation performance is considered Satisfactory. The Government demonstrated
clear ownership of the project objectives, counterpart funds were adequately provided and project



                                                    - 11 -

objectives achieved. Municipalities remained committed to project objectives and were instrumental in
facilitating the development of innovative social services at a local level.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The implementing agency's performance is rated as Satisfactory.         There was a strong ownership of the
project at the MSSL top management level and this served as a driving force in instituting modern
approaches in Ministry's policy preparation process and daily operation. The Ministry was successful in
involving and maintaining the most qualified professional staff during the project implementation that
ensured continuous capacity building in the MSSL and smooth project implementation.               The PCU,
established by the MSSL, was operating effectively and provided adequate administrative support to the
project and liaison with the Bank. In the middle of the project there were changes in PCU core staff that
led to delays in project implementation.        Capacity was subsequently restored through training and
assistance provided by Bank field staff to the PCU. The return of the experienced and committed Project
Director significantly contributed to restoring the project administration capacity.        Regular project
management reports and audit reports were delivered as scheduled.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is considered Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


The project implementation has led to a number of lessons:

l Comprehensive and participatory project preparation that includes substantial analytical work, initial
    development of policy framework and basic principles of institutional and organizational framework is
    critical to ensure high quality implementation. The project benefited from good preparation that created
    real ownership and determined early success of the project.

l Although the project was clear about expected outcomes, the key performance indicators were not very
    useful to monitor project performance. To monitor the project progress there should be a limited
    number of monitoring indicators that, preferably, are part of the regular business of the implementing
    agency and do not require special arrangements such as surveys, analysis etc.

l Flexibility to adjust the lending instrument (for example, formal gradual closure of fully implemented
    project components) that would take into account the changed circumstances, would benefit the project.
    Implementation of the renewed Strategic Partnership Program (SPP) was the only activity that was not
    implemented at the time when all the other project activities were completed. Since the option to
    develop a new project that would implement just the SPP was not acceptable politically, the project
    was extended three times and significantly increased the project supervision costs.

l For project activities where cooperation between different levels of government is essential,        more
    efforts need to be spent initially to build real partnership that is based on mutual understanding about
    the objectives and benefits of the joint program.

l Capacity building for policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation takes time. Only programs that cover
    several years can achieve sustainable results and they should provide a mix of analytical and practical



                                                     - 12 -

    lessons.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                   Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project
                  BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

Evaluation of results of Project components

Component One - Social Policy Development

During the Project preparation and implementation it became clear that one of the obstacles for effective
performance is the MSSL staff involvement into routine job, which was closely related with the duty to
work with benefits recipients and with imperfect distribution of mandates between divisions and
employees. The outcome of the Project was that the staff begun to devote the main working time to the
policy development issues.
The MSSL staff acquired expanded possibilities to participate at the conferences and seminars,
familiarize with world social security experience, to acquire new skills, to devote more time for strategic
planning and performance evaluation preparing annual social report, to organise activities using
external resources for better understanding of social policy, to collaborate with stakeholders.

Other stakeholders noted that the MSSL is one of the most effective ministries in the Lithuania and
collaboration with it is useful not only in the sense of specific benefits, but also as benchmark of the
mode of collaboration.

It is possible to state that the formulation of the Project objectives assists to the MSSL to become
effective ministry, staff to be stable with creative social security policy development skills and able
effectively collaborate with other stakeholders in public, private and non-governmental sectors.

Strategic plan allowed strictly redefine the main MSSL mandates and to improve it's structure, for better
correspondence with the main social policy aims. Planning of activities become more effective, because
the format of strategic plan required clear formulation of the realistic target, to define its measurable
impact and deadlines, to assign responsible executors. Further strategic plan development transformed
into creative process, which required involving more staff of the MSSL. Strategic plan become an
instrument for overall MSSL's activity planning, for successful preparation of new legislation, including,
accession to the EU. During project period, because of implementation of strategic plans or due special
training programmes, the MSSL staff acquired core competencies necessary for planning itself or for
project management. These are, for example, the following skills: SWOT analysis, stakeholders'
analysis, logical framework analysis (LFA), and project cycle management. Respondents also mentioned
new live skills, such as teamwork and leadership, management of personal agenda, etc. These skills are
rendered to the new staff training and coaching them at the workplace, developing specific problems.

In general, the newly prepared strategic plans of the MSSL allowed to more clearly define trends of
social development of the country and to anticipate specific tasks for actual implementation of these
trends. Measures anticipated in the strategic plan were more clearly oriented towards actual resources
and effective implementation of these measures.




                                                   - 13 -

Strategic planning became an instrument of the MSSL, which enable to formulate, monitor and evaluate
social policy in systematic way. Understanding and development of social policy became more
consequent and transparent for other stakeholders. Staff have sufficient skills and render them to the
newcomers.
Annual Social reports assist to the MSSL staff to improve transparency in the formulation of the social
policy and to receive feedback from it's readers; for others it is important source looking for more clear
understanding of the status of different social groups, looking for political decisions (presenting them or
voting); for others  as one of the key sources for scientific researches or studies. Without the Annual
Social Report all groups of stakeholders would lose a lot.

PEF have been beneficial tool for the all parties involved. The researches had the opportunity to explore
the understanding of social security problems and to look for more efficient ways for improvement of the
situation of the most vulnerable groups with the minimum administrative (preparation of legislation) and
implementation costs. The MSSL have received additional understanding, which has not been an
available using only internal resource.

Training programme provided staff with necessary skills in areas such as public administration and
strategic management, budgeting, and use of hardware and software. The staff of different levels of the
Ministry participated in seminars on improvement of their knowledge and skills concerning evaluation
and monitoring of social policy. These activities were the most valuated and indicated as the
preconditions for all other Project activities by the MSSL staff.

The SPP enables the MSSL and municipalities to collaborate with interest and effectively, to adopt
benchmarking at municipalities in order to evaluate own performance and to foresee and substantiate
their demands, to have picture on the social assistance territorial disparities, to indicate the main
problems and to monitor their development under the changes in economic or political situation, to react
in time to these changes and to design new policy instruments and measures.

Project lessons have in principle changed the former mission of the MSSL. The institution reacting to the
effects of social events became the institution capable to evaluate social events, accumulate and analyze
statistical data and provide preventive proposals to avoid the future problems. It can be stated that
during the Project implementation the establishment of a system of social policy monitoring was started.
This system is further developed by the specialists of the Ministry

Component Two - Community Social Services Development

The main advantage of the project is that social services will become easier accessible for most socially
vulnerable groups of population and will be provided at their place of residence rather than in large
centralized shelters. The local community is becoming an active assessor of the quality and forms of the
offered social services. The community initiatives constitute a stimulus to officials of local governments
to adopt solutions responding to community needs.

Throughout the competition 3 Municipalities were chosen that having proposed the best projects on
special education of children with mental disabilities and also 3 Municipalities having proposed the best
projects to establish centres providing open type social services for the most vulnerable members of
community. Even before       starting launching the project special attention was devoted to lack of
professional social work. As professional social workers in Lithuania are being taught since year 1991,
the lack of qualified workers in newly developing centres of social services is considered to be the
problem regarding much attention. SIDA support was used to solve this problem, which was particularly


                                                    - 14 -

implemented by the Social Work School of Stockholm University applying various types of training
programs, courses of qualification development.

Currently 14 centres providing social services have been established and made operational. The
reconstruction of the buildings of the centres have been completed, they have been equipped with
necessary furniture, equipment and special vehicles. About 270 jobs have been created in the centres
within the period from launching of the project until now. All staff members are financed from the local
municipality budgets. From the beginning of the project services have been provided to 10 830 clients.

Achievements of component

According to the character of provided social services the centers can be distinguished into the following
groups of target clients: 4 day centers for children and youngsters with medium and heavy degree of
mental disability; 2 centers for children from socially unstable families (with maximum child's stay in the
centre not longer than 6 months, in the meantime the social workers are seeking to resolve the family
problems, and return the children to their families), other 8 centers provide open type services to groups
of population of highest social risk: alcoholics, drug-addicts, battered women and children, elderly
people, adults with a variety of disabilities, former prisoners and in general members of the community
facing social problems.
Briefly we will define each of them separately.

Centres proceeded their work without additional support - financial (no extra goods, furniture or
transport were bought) or qualification development ( there were no trainings, conference, workshops,
supervisions)  under the intended purpose: Establishment of a feasible, cost-effective approach to social
service delivery that is community based and responsive to local needs.
At the end of year 2003 the contest of the Name of Methodical Centre was held and 4 centres
implemented during the project period were among 10 name-holders.

Traversing through the latter 3-year period of sponsorship tendencies, it could be stated that: Centres of
open type social services, implemented during the project period, supply lower costs per person than
stationary institutions', for people with similar demographic and social characteristics. It can be
evidenced with reference to the report on Stationary Custodial Institutions' Assessment 2003
accomplished by the Audit Department beside MSSL.




                                                   - 15 -

                          Table #1 (all costs in Litas: 1USD = 2.8 Lt)

   Residential care for       WB project day centers or         Differences   Average for Differences
 children and youth with     special education centers for         less "- "  WB project    less "- "
   mentally disabilities        mental disables children          over "+"      centers     over "+"
(for one client per month)    (for one client per month)
                             Anyksciu Education Centre for       - 2.2 times
                              Mentally Disabled Children         or - 55 %
                                          752.9
           1674                        Moletu EC                  - 1.5 time      892       - 1.9 time
                                          1084                    or - 35 %                 or - 47 %
                                        Utenos EC                 - 2 times
                                           839                    or - 50 %
                                     Svencioniu EC                - 1.9 time
                                          891,8                   or - 47 %



                          Table # 2 (all costs in Litas: 1USD = 2.8 Lt)

   Residential care for       WB project day centers        Differences     Average for  Differences
    elderly people and        or home delivery social        less "- "      WB project     less "- "
     disabled people              services centers           over "+"        centers      over "+"
(for one client per month)  (for one client per month)
                                Svencioioniu Home           - 2.3 times
                              Delivery Social Services        or 58 %
                                        416.6
            989                Siauliu Social Services       - 6 times        282.1       - 3.5 times
                                     Centre 165               or 83 %                      or 71 %
                               Vilnius, Seskines Day        - 3.7 times
                                 Centre for Elderly           or 73 %
                                  "Atgaiva" 264.9




                                              - 16 -

                              Table # 3 (all costs in Litas: 1USD = 2.8 Lt)

 Residential care for elderly     WB project day centres for         Differences     Average for    Differences
  mentally disabled people      elderly mentally disabled people      less "- "      WB project       less "- "
  (for one client per month)       (for one client per month)         over "+"          centers      over "+"
             1085                  Vilnius Training Centre for       - 1.5 time
                                 Mentally Disabled People "Mes"      or - 32 %
                                               742




                              Table # 4 (all costs in Litas: 1USD = 2.8 Lt)

  Residential care for children        W B project temporary         D ifferences       Average for    Differences
  or Children Home (Internat)          residents for children           less "- "       WB project       less " - "
   (for one client per month)        (for one client per month)        over "+"           centres        over "+"
               1200                       U tena Temporary            - 1.68 time                        - 1.6 time
                                        Residence Centre for            or 40 %                           or 38 %
                                            Children 711
                                                                                            739
                                       Svencionys Temporary           - 1.56 time
                                        Residence Centre for            or 36 %
                                           Children    767




Conclusions

l the MSSL staff already had the main skills of strategic planning before the Government decided to
  make it obligatory at all the ministries. The staff of the MSSL were able to use these skills also in
  preparation of other legal documents of Lithuanian Government and the EU;
l obtaining of the new skills allowed to make the MSSL staff the most stable comparing to other
  Governmental institutions;
l obtaining of the new skills assisted to increase the effectiveness of the legislation preparation even in
  the uncertain political situation. For example, in the preparation of the pension reform the attitude
  has been suddenly changed: it was decided to introduce voluntary insurance instead of obligatory.
  Due to good technical skills staff have been able to prepare the analysis of the new system and to
  present proposals on the effective implementation of the new system very quickly;
l if information system have not been developed in time (Annual Social Report, website, computer
  networks), twice more time would be spent for stakeholders information, and information presented
  in another forms (verbal, by phone or at meetings) would be less comprehensive and unsteady. That
  would complicate communication with stakeholders (Seimas, other ministries, municipalities, the EU
  institutions, etc.);
l the staff of the Ministry received training and obtained more knowledge and skills on how to analyze
  social processes and carry out monitoring and evaluation of the social policy. Research initiated by
  the Policy evaluation fund provided wide opportunities to analyze processes in the entire sector and
  to anticipate tendencies of its development. Co-operation within the context of strategic partnership
  between the Ministry and municipalities has in principle changed the former style and quality of




                                                   - 17 -

    co-operation;
l all centres established in the course of the project implementation justified the original idea of the
    project, - to establish open type social service institutions base on the needs of the local
    communities, to function as alternatives to stationary patronage institutions and to help a large
    share of the client avoid the stationary patronage;
l there isn't a single centre participating in the project the experience of which would be of no interest
    or value to the social workers of other municipalities, the workers of the centres are becoming
    providers of methodological counseling and consultants. This certifies to the high professional
    competence developed in the course of the project and the high quality of provided services. In terms
    of the application of the working methodologies every centre could be a good example for replication
    in other municipalities as to the organization of open type social services as alternative to
    institutional patronage;
l the process of the project implementation showed that municipalities should have a long-term
    strategy of the development of social services on the community level, including clients of all risk
    groups according to the nature of the problem and the age of the clients. This strategy should be
    closely pursued regardless of political forces in power. This way it would be possible to avoid
    spontaneous shortfalls of funding caused by insufficient understanding of tendencies in social
    processes by local politicians, or their insufficient education in issues of social services.

It can be additionally noted that:

l While establishing centres of special upbringing for children and youth with mental disabilities it is
    essential to forecast (or even parallel establish) group-life homes, where youth with mental
    disabilities are housed when they are 21, along with centres of work occupation that would provide
    work skills' training. As this is not done such clients are forced to return home ( in best case) and
    all the human resources used for social integration become worthless.
l Temporary shelter house for former prisoners must become the detachment of centre of former
    prisoners' resocialization. Another detachment must be designed for the training of work skills and
    occupation activities. It is not sufficient for the former prisoners to offer only temporary shelter and
    support in paper administration. These people are facing difficulties of employment due to society's
    intolerance.
l Possibilities of professional juridical support for victims of human trafficking and women, children
    experienced violence are needed. In contrary situation rights of victims are not guaranteed  former
    clients usually continually depends on violators.
l Temporary shelter for children from families with high social risk must give more attention to work
    with those families (search of patrons, training of patrons, consultations for the family members,
    prevention work with anticipatory social risk families) and holding active contacts with
    municipality's Agency of Children Rights Protection.

These aspects of negative assessment are clearly realized by the centres. It is hopefully anticipated that
the municipalities, supplying financial resources to the centres, will also realize it, which enables them to
precede their work having more than minimum resources. This leads us to additional conclusion that the
responsibility of municipalities for the social well being of their territorial community members must be
expanded.

Component Three  The Project Management

Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established for project management, monitoring and evaluation
purpose. The PCU, reporting to the Steering Committee (at the MSSL) was responsible for the timely


                                                      - 18 -

implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project activities. The PCU was ensured effective
administration of critical project activities. Specific tasks of the PCU was included:

(a)     coordinate implementation of various activities and ensure that all resources utilized under the
        project are accordance with priorities and objectives defined;
(b)     monitor and report to the Steering Committee and the Bank on the progress toward achievement
        of the project objectives and the agreed policy measures;
(c)     monitor and evaluate systematically activities agreed to in implementation plans by making
        periodic assessment of the relevance, performance and impact of these activities, ensuring that
        project objectives are achieved;
(d)     monitor availability of counterpart funds when required for the project;
(e)     manage and keep records of all procurement operations ensuring compliance with aggregate
        limits on specified methods of procurement;
(f)     maintain a procurement registry of all procurement operations under the project;
(g)     monitor the project's financial information ensuring that all project expenditures and
        commitments are consistent with the project's agreed allocations for expenditures categories;
(h)     manage        contracting of technical assistance services and monitor the placement and
        performance of staff receiving training, as well as the consultants hired under project;
(i)     prepare and distribute consolidated periodic reports to the relevant government authorities and
        to the Bank reflecting: the status implementation process, problems encountered and corrective
        actions needed and current costs of each project component and estimated costs of completion;
(j)     prepare and complete relevant sections of the Implementation Completion Report at the close of
the Project.

Lessons Learned

In conclusion, the following key experiences and lessons learned should be emphasised. They should be
taken into consideration when making decisions about the continuation or dissemination of the projects
and methodologies that have been developed during this programme.

l You can only expect real success if the project is established in cooperation with leaders and staff
    members who are really enthusiastic and engaged in the project. You cannot order anyone to do a
    job and expect positive results.
l It is one hundred per cent necessary that the municipality will take responsibility for the project and
    are ready to accept that the project is an experiment, and this said, which could potential fail.
l It is very important for the project that some organizations or authorities beyond the community and
    project, for example SIDA or other international organizations, maintain their interest in the project
    throughout its lifetime.
l It is of vital importance for the establishment and completion of a project like this, that there are real
    economic benefits for the community in the end.
l It is very stimulating for the establishment and completion of a project like this, for local politicians,
    authorities and the local communities as a whole, to receive information about the project and that
    positive image of the project is promoted, for example via the press and national and international
    conferences.
l The social, economic, political and geographical conditions that affect each project are different in
    every case so it is impossible to replicate a project perfectly. But the positive experience and lessons
    learned form one project could be used as inspiration for the next. It can also be expected that the
    positive results and benefits experienced by one project can be experienced in a similar project.
l When projects are established and implemented in cooperation with national or foreign experts, it is



                                                     - 19 -

    very important, that the consultants deliver what is really needed and do not just deliver what they
    think from a theoretical point of view are the needs of those they are working with.
l The professional success of the social workers and therefore social work depends on the values,
    attitudes, knowledge and professional skills in leadership that those involved possess. Work in such
    projects requires professional effort from those implementing the projects, where education, training,
    and coaching and supervision are of the utmost importance.
l The municipalities and the projects must be supported, on a daily basis by high qualified experts, for
    example, from The Ministry of Social Security and Labour.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Below are comments from Anders Hedlund, Head of Division for East Europe and Central Asia, Sida
Europe.

Sida's comment on the Implementation Completion Report


The Lithuania Social Services and Social Policy Development Project was one of the first large
projects in the social sector that Sida was engaged in. The Swedish co-operation with the Baltic
States had started a couple of years before also including assistance to the social sector. One of
the Swedish actors were the Department of Social Work at Stockholm University and their
training of heads of social service departments and higher officials within the central authorities
had been well received and this project became a natural prolongation of these previous
activities.

Our evaluation of the project is very positive. The development of the social service sector in
Lithuania is profound and the results have been accomplished  in retrospect  in a rather short
time. The contribution by the project to this development has been substantial. The services
delivered by the community based pilot centers have a high quality and the ideology behind the
work methods have changed the perception of social assistance. The center have also changed
the lives of thousands individuals to the better. The community based pilot centers have been
broadly replicated throughout the country with support from the Ministry of Labor and Social
Security and in this way contributed to the design of the social assistance system in Lithuania.

These positive results are currently disseminated to other countries in the region through other
Sida funded projects in the social sector. Stockholm University is using the Lithuanian example
as a showcase in project sin in Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan and other
countries. This co-operation is now being formalized in a tripartite co-operation involving
Lithuania, Kyrgyzstan and Sweden.

There are a lot of factors behind the successful completion of the project. Only a few can be
mentioned here. The combination of a field-approach with the establishment of the community
based pilot projects and a strong connection to the long-term plans of the Ministry has been one
important factor behind the sustainability of the results. The fact that the project was prolonged
and had a long duration can be seen as a positive factor. This gave all the involved actors a
chance to integrate new models of work in their day-to-day activities. The close co-operation
between Stockholm University and Vilnius University was also important for the dissemination of


                                                   - 20 -

the new models and perspectives. And finally we had strong actors both in Sweden the
competent and persistent team from Stockholm University  and in Lithuania  both within the
selected municipalities and the Ministry. Without the devoted efforts from all these individuals
the project would not have attained the strong results it actually did.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


    The achievements of the Lithuania Social Policy and Community Social Services Development project
    have been reflected in various publications and the following article is published on the WB Vilnius
    Country Office website.



    Targeting Domestic Violence in Lithuania

    "I sometimes feel that we have set our domestic demons free." Nijole Dirsiene, Director of the Shelter
    for Children and Mothers, Vilnius

    Facing the issue of domestic violence
    As public relations officer of a state agency, she was a well-known face. What was not known, until a
    year and a half ago, was that she had been silently enduring domestic violence. She had been afraid to
    reveal her plight for fear of negative reactions from the public as well as her own two sons.
    Experts at the Shelter for Children and Mothers in Vilnius, however, had been in covert contact with
    her for over a year. Gradually confronting her suffering, she moved to the shelter, divorced her
    husband, and told her remarkable story to a popular Lithuanian magazine. Her ordeal, in turn, would
    help Lithuanian society face the difficult issue.

    World Bank's support helps breach the" Wall of Silence"
    I sometimes feel that we have set our domestic demons free," explains Nijole Dirsiene, director of the
    Shelter for Children and Mothers. Since 1998, when the shelter opened, the number of women seeking
    refuge there has increased every year--from 50 in its opening year to 955 in 2003. Dirsiene thinks the
    number grows not because of an increase in abuse but because "the wall of silence has been breached."

    She credits the World Bank with making it possible for her organization to take care of domestic
    violence survivors, to advise them, and to give them shelter until their problems are solved.

    Letting the genie out of the bottle and bringing about change
    The family tradition is strong, almost sacred in Lithuania; yet a recent poll shows that 70 percent of
    women have been victims of domestic violence at least once. When the country was part of the Soviet
    Union, these problems were either hushed up at home or dealt with in a rather primitive manner at
    work.

    Following the restoration of independence in 1990, the genie did not stay in the bottle for long. Once
    the issue was out in the open, it was decided to establish a center to support women who faced abuse at
    home.




                                                     - 21 -

Shelters act as agents of change in society as more women seek help
In 1998, the World Bank gave its backing to a project that encompassed 14 social service projects for
abuse victims, the elderly, and those in poor health. The Shelter for Children and Mothers is one of
those projects.

The World Bank's assistance has enabled the conversion of a building near the center of Vilnius to
serve as the shelter. It has also helped the center to install a security system, and acquire office
equipment. A Swedish grant helped to train the staff. At present, the shelter can accommodate 70
people--who are served by 15 social workers, two psychologists, and a nurse.

Staff members at the shelter say that they are happy to be agents for change in the public's perception
of domestic violence--from looking at it as a "family matter" to seeing it as it truly is, a crime. They
are in constant contact with the police and lawyers, and are involved in legal reform that would enable
the issue to be dealt with more swiftly and efficiently.

A Crisis Center for Men too
Ms. Dirsiene, the shelter director, says that the World Bank's support has lent their efforts a credibility
boost, making it much easier to deal with hurdles. Inspired by the success of the shelter in Vilnius, a
similar project has been initiated in Utena. A separate unit is being set up in Vilnius - this time a Crisis
Center for Men.

"We have decided to stop hiding and are going public with our address," says Ms. Dirsiene. The
shelter will also release information about the women it serves unless they request anonymity. She is
happy that more and more women are seeking help. "The problem needs to be seen and named before
it can be solved," she says. "Publicity changes the attitude of the police, the courts, and society itself.
And bringing about that change is our overarching goal."




                                                 - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
(1) Percent of MSSL time devoted to core          Project indicator has been achieved           MSSL staff survey carried out in September
policy development tasks increases from less                                                    2003 showed that 96% of staff (covered by
than 50% in 1995 to over 75% in 2000,                                                           survey) devote about 90% of their time to
measured by yearly questionnaire on staff                                                       core policy development tasks.
time allocation.

 (2) Skills acquired will result in better policy Project indicator has been achieved           Since 2000 all legislative proposals to
analysis in the MSSL, measured by 100                                                           Seimas and Government are compulsory
percent of MSSL legislative proposals to                                                        supplemented with explanatory note on policy
Seimas and Government having analysis of                                                        objectives and intentions of proposed
fiscal and social implications attached by                                                      legislation and analysis of fiscal and social
2000.                                                                                           implications.

(3) MSSL analysis and development of social Project indicator has been achieved                 The ASR and strategic planning are fully
policy at all stages (design, monitoring and                                                    internalized and sustainable as policy
evaluation) is improved, with viable policy                                                     planning, monitoring and evaluation
options clearly presented to outside agencies                                                   procedures.Almost 100% of planned policy
and the broader public.                                                                         measures are being implemented, ASR is
                                                                                                considered as successful way presenting
                                                                                                social policies.

(4) The administration of social assistance       Project indicator has been partially achieved Renewed SPP is targeted in reaching above
policy at the local level and central/local                                                     mentioned objective. The SPP is operational
communication are improved, measured by                                                         and covers all the municipalities (see Post
interviews with key stakeholders (such as                                                       Project report on SPP, October 2005)
Seimas representatives and municipal heads)
at mid-term and final stages of the project.

(5) Establishment of a cost effective social      Project indicator has been achieved           The report prepared by the Audit Department
assistance system at the community level                                                        of the MSSL indicates that costs per person
tailored to the needs of individuals who are                                                    in the community based care centers are
vulnerable or at risk of institutionalization.                                                  lower compared to the residential care
                                                                                                institutions. For example, residential care for
                                                                                                elderly and disabled is 2-6 times more
                                                                                                expensive than community care, residential
                                                                                                care for children with mental disabilities is 1-2
                                                                                                times more expensive than community based
                                                                                                care.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Annual Strategic plan and partnerships at         Project indicator been achieved               Annual Strategic plans are being prepared
each level, adapted each year in light of prior                                                 regularly and have become an instrument of
year's achievements and new corporate                                                           the MSSL to formulate, monitor and evaluate
objectives by July 31.                                                                          social policy.


Monitoring and evaluation program including Project indicator has been achieved                 22 workshops were organized to improve
training of MSSL staff and users in applied                                                     MSSL staff skills in analyzing and monitoring
social policy analysis (176 staff),                                                             social policies. PEF supported 14 research
dissemination of studies financed by PEF,                                                       projects covering different areas of social
and publication of annual Social Report by                                                      policy. Since 1998 seven Annual Social
the MSSL from 1997 on.                                                                          reports have been prepared and are available
                                                                                                through the MSSL's webpage in Lithuanian
                                                                                                and in English.


Three education centers and three                 Project indicator has been achieved           All 14 centers have been established and are
multi-service centers are functional by early                                                   operational.
1998.




                                                                     - 23 -

Mid-term evaluation of all centers by        Project inicator has been achieved    Mid-term evaluation was done in 1999 and
12/31/1999, and final evaluation including a                                       the evaluation of all 14 centers was prepared
plan for replication by 12/31/01.                                                  by independent evaluators in 2003. The
                                                                                   evaluation concluded that centers have
                                                                                   reached their objectives and the experience
                                                                                   should be broadly disseminated. Social
                                                                                   Service Infrastructure Development Program
                                                                                   administered by the MSSL (ongoing from
                                                                                   1998) has been accepted as a replication
                                                                                   plan.

1End of project




                                                                - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. Social Policy Development                                 2.60             1.75            67.3
B. Community Social Services Pilot                           7.08           12.40            175.1
C. Project Management                                        1.02             1.04             102

Total Baseline Cost                                         10.70           15.19
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.56
 Price Contingencies                                         1.05
                        Total Project Costs                 12.31           15.19
                  Total Financing Required                  12.31           15.19


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              1.30         0.00          0.00         1.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.96)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.96)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         1.40          0.00         1.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.10)          (0.00)       (1.10)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         1.50          4.29         5.79
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.50)          (0.00)       (1.50)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.17         0.17
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          3.65         3.65
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              1.30         2.90          8.11         12.31
                                  (0.00)           (0.96)      (2.60)          (0.00)       (3.56)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             2.03         0.00           0.00        2.03
                                  (0.00)          (1.49)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.49)
2. Goods                          0.84             1.20         0.00           0.00        2.04
                                  (0.62)          (0.99)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.61)
3. Services                       0.29             0.16         0.05          10.62        11.12
                                  (0.21)          (0.12)       (0.05)         (0.00)       (0.38)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00


                                                - 25 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               1.13               3.39              0.05             10.62            15.19
                                          (0.83)             (2.60)            (0.05)            (0.00)           (3.48)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Social Policy               1.61         0.39         0.85        1.23         0.17       0.35       76.4      43.6     41.2
development
B. Community Social            1.72         3.65         3.00        2.26         7.65       2.49       131.4    209.6     83.0
Services Pilot
C. Project Management          0.24         1.12         0.25        0.12         0.92                  50.0      82.1      0.0




                                                          - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/07/1995                     SR. ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL        S               S
                                             PROTECTION SPEC.;
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/01/1995                4    SR. ECONOMIST (1);               S               S
                                             SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                             SPEC.; OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)

 Supervision

              06/25/1997                4    IMPLEMENTATION (1);              S               S
                                             COMMUNITY SERVICES (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1)
              10/04/1997                4    PROJECT ACCOUNTING (1);          S               S
                                             COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERV.
                                             (1); MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL PROTECTION SPEC
                                             (1)
              02/05/1999                4    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              HS             HS
                                             (1); COMMUNITY SERVICES
                                             (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1)
              05/15/1999                6    TEAM LEADER (1); DEPUTY          HS             HS
                                             TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL
                                             PROTECTION (1); SOCIAL
                                             ASSISTANCE (1);
                                             COMMUNITY PILOTS (1);
                                             PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1)
              05/15/1999                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 HS             HS
                                             COMMUNITY SERVICES (1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1); SECTOR
                                             ECONOMICS (1); PILOT
                                             PROJECTS (1)
              12/18/2000                6    TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT         HS             HS
                                             MANAGEMENT (1); PAS (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (3)
              12/18/2000                4    MISSION LEADER (1);              HS             HS
                                             PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER



                                              - 28 -

                                                                  (1); PROCUREMENT EXPERT
                                                                  (1)
                   12/11/2001                               5     MISSION LEADER (1);               S    S
                                                                  PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                                                  (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                                  SPECISLIST (1);
                                                                  CONSULTANT (2)
                   10/25/2002                               3     TEAM LEADER (1); PTL (1);         S    S
                                                                  CONSULTANT (1)
                   10/25/2002                               6     OPERATIONS/SOCIAL PROT            S    S
                                                                  (1); SOCIAL SERVICES (1);
                                                                  POLICY MONITORING AND
                                                                  (1); PROCUREMENT (1); SP
                                                                  POLICY/ADMINISTRAT (1);
                                                                  TEAM LEADER (1)
                   12/19/2003                               4     TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                                                  CONSULTANT (2);
                                                                  PROCUREMENT STAFF (1)
                   03/25/2004                               1     TASK TEAM LEADER (1)              S    S
                   06/14/2004                               3     TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                                                  CONSULTANT, SOC. SERV.
                                                                  (1); CONSULTANT,SOC
                                                                  POLICY (1)



 ICR
                   05/2/2005                                3     TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                                                  CONSULTANT, SOCIAL
                                                                  SERVICES (1);
                                                                  CONSULTANT, SOCIAL
                                                                  POLICY (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                     No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                  n/a*                           n/a*
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                     19.37                            681
  Supervision                                              130.31                            617
  ICR                                                       22.21                             28
  Total                                                    171.89                           1326
Figues for Identification/Preparation are included in Appraisal/Negotiations.




                                                                  - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Lithuania - Social Policy and Community Social Services development Project, Staff Appraisal Report,
February 14, 1997

Preparation/Appraisal/Supervision Aide-Memoires

Project Status reports

Project Mid-Term report, May 2000.

QSA 6 Report, 11/03/2004

Post Project Report on Social Partnersip Program, October 2005

World Bank Social Policy and Community Social Services Development project, Impact Evaluation of
Component 1, May 2005

Project LIT/96/004. Social Policy Evaluation and Monitoring. Final Progress Report, December 2002

Social Policy and Community Social Service Development Project in Lithuania, Sida Evaluation,
December 2004.

Spectrum: A Model for the Future: Innovative Social Policy in Lithuania, Fall 1999.

Social Policy and Community Social Services development Project, Annual reports 1999 - 2003.

Annual Social Reports of the MSSL from 1997-2003, at www.socmin.lt




                                                 - 32 -

- 33 -

