Report No. PIC2082
Project Name                   Lithuania-Social Policy and Community     Pe N
Social Services Development Project
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Social Sector
Project ID                     LTPA8539
Borrower                       Republic of Lithuania
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Social Security and Labor and
six municipalities
Contact Information: Mr. Alfredas
Nazarovas, Project Director
Project Coordination Unit
Ministry of Social Security and Labor
Vivulskio 11, Vilnius 232600
Tel: 3702 62 51 72
Fax: 3702 65 24 63
Project Amount                 US$12.3 million
Loan Amount                    US$3.7 million
Appraisal Date                 November, 1995
Planned Board Date             February 18, 1997
Date of Last PID               April 30, 1996 (formerly Social Safety Net
Project)
Date RPID Prepared             November 13, 1996
COUNTRY AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
1.   By 1990, Lithuania had undergone some fifty years of development
under central planning, with an export oriented industrial base that was
highly integrated with the other republics of the Soviet Union,
favorable terms of trade with those republics, a high level of energy
dependence on Russia, a skilled work force and a relatively developed
infrastructure. Severe economic and social shocks followed Lithuania's
emergence as an independent state -- as a result, the country suffered
a precipitous decline in output, with GDP falling some 13 percent in
real terms in 1991, 38 percent in 1992, and 16 percent in 1993. With
independence, the Government embarked on a comprehensive reform agenda
aimed at reorienting to a market economy. A formal stabilization
program was launched in October, 1992, and Lithuania has broadly
remained within program targets, containing both monetary expansion and
the fiscal deficit. A new currency, the litas, was adopted in June,
1993, and was pegged to the US$ at a rate of 4:1 under a currency board
system in April, 1994. The country succeeded in reversing the GDP
decline with growth of about 1.5 percent in 1994 and 2.7 percent in
1995, and inflation has been reduced to single digit monthly levels
(from about 50 percent in the first quarter of 1992). New private



sector activity is growing and absorbing an increasing percentage of the
work force.
OVERVIEW OF THE LITHUANIAN SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM
2.   During the transition to market, shifts in relative prices and
other incentives that accompany structural changes in the economy (such
as the removal of subsidies) impose costs on some households, and can
particularly impact the poor and those at the margin. As the Government
continues to reduce its role as the redistributor of national income, it
has become increasingly important to establish a fiscally sound social
safety net that targets Lithuania's scarce resources on the most
vulnerable, reinforced by client-responsive programs that support the
productivity, dignity, and quality of life of the individual.
3.   Before independence, Lithuania's social security system was
integrated with the social programs of the Soviet Union, financed
through the state budget, and regulated from Moscow. This system was
oriented to central planning, and assumed (i) aost full employment; (ii)
heavily subsidized basic commodities; and (iii) widespread access to
aost free (if generally low quality) services such as health care and
education. After independence, the Government introduced changes in the
structure, financing, and administration of the social programs it had
inherited, hoping both to address its perception that living standards
were falling sharply for many households and to introduce social
insurance programs that were fiscally sustainable and directly linked to
contributions.    Currently, three types of cash benefits are provided:
(a) social insurance benefits, such as pensions and unemployment
benefits; (b) state allowances and pensions, such as childbirth grant
and extended maternity leave (childcare benefit); and (c) means tested
allowances, which include a general benefit and a winter heating
allowance. The Government has been unable to measure the impact of
these programs on household income and consumption until recently, when
the outmoded Soviet-era Household Budget Survey was replaced with a more
reliable instrument.
4.   While the new pension law has a number of positive features,
including universality, a more contribution-related structure, and
increased transparency, it will be expensive over the medium term. In
1993, an estimated 6.6w of GDP was spent on these benefits. Of this,
the social insurance benefits (covering some 23 percent of the
population) accounted for 5.7T of GDP, and the others 0.9t of GDP.    The
cost of social insurance benefits rose to an estimated 8.79 of GDP in
1995. Given foreseeable demographic trends and the generous formulae
that are used to set and index benefits, system costs are expected to
rise dramatically over the next ten years.
5.   Prior to independence, Lithuania had an extensive, though austere
and authoritarian, system of social supports for well-functioning
families, including creches, day care centers, extensive public health
care, after-school programs and summer recreation. But when families or
the elderly had severe difficulties, aost no forms of community-based
help (which can include counseling, job training, child care, and
material assistance) were available. The primary means of assistance
was, and still is, removal of children and placement in kinship foster
-2 -



families or institutional placement of children, the disabled, or the
elderly.
INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE
6.   Ministry of Social Security and Labor (MSSL). The MSSL, which is
responsible for the development, monitoring and evaluation of social
policy, is divided into three departments -- Income Guarantee, Social
Care, and Employment. The Income Guarantee Department is responsible
for social insurance and (cash) social assistance policy design,
implementation, and monitoring. The Department's Social Indicators
Division supports policy development in the Ministry and the Social
Insurance Agency (SoDra), assessing minimum living standards and other
indicators used in benefit formulae, while the Division of Family
Assistance develops and monitors family assistance, maternity, and
children's benefits. The Department of Social Care oversees the
operations of institutions for the elderly, invalids, and handicapped
children (especially drafting standards and guidelines) and also
oversees the activities of the Ministry training center. The Employment
Department oversees the development of active and passive labor market
policies.
KEY ISSUES IN SOCIAL SAFETY NET DEVELOPMENT
7.   Weak social policy development.   The capacity of the administration
inherited from the pre-independence period and charged with developing
and implementing social policy is extremely weak.     The MSSL lacks the
skills and knowledge to estimate the fiscal and social implications of
proposed social policy (such as the pension law, which is proving to be
fiscally unsustainable). The role of the MSSL with respect to the
social assistance offices is similarly limited. At present, it consists
of conveying, interpreting, and clarifying formulae and regulations
enshrined in legislation, and there is little or no prompt or reliable
information that the MSSL can use to track policy. Analytical policy
work appears to be mostly conducted in an ad hoc fashion, with little
attention devoted to long-term strategy. Difficult tradeoffs between
policy options are not assessed, leading to ineffective and costly
policy choices such as the new pension law.
8.   Underdeveloped social policy monitoring and evaluation.    The MSSL
Social Indicators Division relies on its own policy analysis, as well as
the analytical work of other MSSL divisions. At present, key evaluation
issues concerning social assistance are generally restricted to short
term budgetary priorities, and there is no regular mechanism for
evaluating a given policy once it is in place. The MSSL has
insufficient resources to: (i) identify a research program that would
help the Government to establish progress towards policy objectives;
(ii) carry out that program, either on its own or in cooperation with
other agencies; and (iii) communicate evaluation results to the relevant
parties.
9.   Inefficient use of organizational resources.   The above problems
are compounded by a frequently inefficient and inflexible organization
for developing policy. Staff report spending 50 percent or more of
their time on non-core tasks, such as adjudication of benefit disputes
- 3 -



at the local level. In part because of its relatively recent emergence
as an independent policy making institution, the MSSL has been unable to
formulate definitive strategic organizational goals, develop clear lines
of financial and managerial subordination, address critical gaps and
overlaps in services provided, utilize scarce physical and human
resources efficiently, and establish the flexibility to redeploy those
resources and encourage teamwork between divisions.
10. Ineffective and expensive forms of social care. Institutional
placement continues to be the main service provided when problems
develop for children, families or the elderly because little community-
based social assistance is available. The need for assistance has risen
since independence, as families cope with the strains of the transition.
Traditional models of service provision have been maintained, and as a
result there has been an increase of 34 percent in the number of
children placed in institutions between 1992 and 1994. The MSSL and the
municipalities recognize the problem and believe a reorientation is
necessary, but are hampered by: (a) a lack of knowledge and experience
of appropriate alternatives,; (b) a rapidly changing policy framework,
which has resulted in some confusion regarding which levels of
Government and which agencies are responsible for these services, (c)
fiscal constraints,; (c) fiscal constraints; and (d) a lack of
understanding in society about the needs of elderly, children, and
disabled.
II. THE SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORY
11. The project's main objective is to support the Government of
Lithuania in providing social security to the population at an
affordable cost through institutional development activities to improve
(i) the capacity to analyze social policy at all stages; and (ii)
community social care services. The Program Objective Category is PA
(poverty reduction).
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND FINANCING
12. The project would provide, over five years, assistance for
institutional strengthening through technical assistance, local and
external training, as well as financing for civil works, equipment,
materials, computer hardware and software, vehicles, furniture, and
incremental recurrent costs. Total project costs, net of taxes and
duties, are estimated at about US$12.3 million. External donors
(Sweden, the Netherlands, and the UNDP) are expected to finance most
foreign technical assistance costs. The proposed loan of US$3.7 million
would finance 30 percent of total project costs. The project components
are as follows:
1. Social Policy Development (US$2.6 million base costs, or 24
percent of total project cost base costs). This component will support
the development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the
Government's social policy agenda through (a) Improved Resource Use in
the MSSL, to help the Ministry of Social Security and Labor to design
and implement priority social policies with a more efficient and
- 4 -



effective organization; and (b) Policy Monitoring and Evaluation, to
allow the Ministry to track progress towards achieving its social policy
goals, and to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of its programs.
2. Community Social Service Pilots (US$7.1 million base costs, or
67 percent of total project costbase costs).    This component will
develop and test new means of providing non-cash assistance by: (a)
Establishing Community Multi-Service Centers serving the elderly,
families with children, and the disabled; (b) Establishing Education
Centers for Disabled Children, and (c) Monitoring and Evaluating the
implementation, cost and impact of the centers.
3. Project Management (US$1 million base costs, or 95.7 percent of
total project cost base costs). This component supports project
implementation, including overall project management, project
monitoring, procurement, accounting, and office organization.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
13. The proposed project would be carried out by the Ministry of Social
Security and Labor and six municipalities.    A detailed implementation
plan is included in the project Operational Manual (available in the
project file). Timetables, milestones, and monitorable outcome/impact
indicators are specified for each component. Implementation will be
supported by the Project Coordination Unit. A staffing and management
plan for this unit has been prepared. Training in procurement and
project management will be provided under the project.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
14. This project supports the institutional development of an agency
performing the critical and politically sensitive government function of
social policy development. It also supports the development of new,
better, and more cost-effective approaches to assisting vulnerable
groups. An ex ante economic analysis has shown that the community
social service pilots should be financially sustainable, and ongoing
monitoring and evaluation activities that include social service
financing studies and mid-term and final evaluations will determine the
advisability of replicating the pilots. Within the fluid institutional
structure of a newly independent state, substantial efforts have been
devoted to ensuring counterpart ownership of and commitment to project
objectives, activities, and proposed investments.
E. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS OPERATIONS
15. Owing in part to initial overestimation of the Borrowers' project
management skills and experience with international procurement, social
sector projects in Eastern Europe tended to proceed much slower than was
predicted at appraisal. Project designs are now being simplified,
greater attention is being paid to ownership up front, and the role of
project management in implementation is being strengthened. These
lessons have been incorporated in the design of this project. During
preparation, participatory project preparation workshops were held at
key stages in the preparation process to ensure ownership up front.
Agreement on a cost-effective approach to PCU design and implementation
- 5 -



was also reached. Implementation plans, with monitorable indicators of
project success, have been prepared by the counterparts in both the
Lithuanian and English languages.
16.   Bank-supported project preparation activities have generated
substantial donor interest and participation. Each project component
has attracted donor partnerships in the form of commitments to finance
technical assistance. In component 1, the Dutch Government and UNDP are
the partners. All technical assistance and training for component 2
will be financed by the Swedish Government through a Bank trust fund
(Borrower managed). Thus, the Bank has played a catalytic role in
attracting financing for project goals, while remaining the financier of
last resort in project activities.
F. POVERTY CATEGORY AND GENDER FOCUS
17. Poverty reduction: The project has a direct poverty reduction
objective. Under the Social Policy Development component, the
Government will build capacity for improved targeting of benefits to the
poor through better policy monitoring and evaluation mechanisms.
Improved policy analysis will also permit better anticipation of the
likely impact on the poor of transition policy measures across the
board, so that effective and efficient compensatory measures can be
designed if required. Under the community social services pilot
component, a network of community-based services will be developed to
assist families in need, many of who are poor or living on the margin,
to lead more productive and satisfying lives.
18. Gender focus: Project design has incorporated a gender focus.
Under the Social Policy Development component, training programs will
include an analysis of gender issues in transition policy, building on
Lithuania's program for the Beijing Conference. Research projects in
this topic are eligible for funding under the project-supported Policy
Evaluation Fund (PEF). Under the Community Social Services Pilot
component, the Battered Women's Center will develop a new service to
assist vulnerable women. The monitoring and evaluation of the
component, particularly the mid-term evaluation, the final evaluation
and the bi-annual monitoring reports, will pay special attention to
gender issues, including the number of women served, the impact of the
pilot projects on women, and the appropriateness of the project's design
to serve the needs of women.
G.   ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY
19. Environmental category C ('No appreciable environmental impact')
has been given consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive
4.01, Annex E. The proposed project is not expected to have a negative
environmental impact.
IV. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH, BENEFITS, AND RISKS
A. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH TO PROJECT PREPARATION
20. Throughout the preparation process, considerable care has been
taken to ensure strong local ownership of the project. An initial
- 6 -



preparation workshop held in September 1994, used the German technical
assistance agency GTZ's "ZOPP" methodology, which stresses client
participation and ownership. It is designed to rationalize and
systematize previous work, and to reach agreement on project objectives
and components. As a result of this workshop, the Lithuanian team
acquired a clearer understanding of what preparing a Bank-financed
project implies on their part, increasing their participation and
involvement. In addition, the workshop helped to develop project
planning matrices (systematic tools for monitoring project preparation
and implementation) in which key project activities have been defined
and implementation schedules specified. A follow-up workshop was held
in September, 1995 which further strengthened ownership and commitment
through a review of all project objectives and assumptions, and working
group development and ratification of project activity plans. The first
draft of the implementation and monitoring plan was also prepared during
this workshop (in Lithuanian and in English). Representatives of key
stakeholders' groups, including pensioners and Seimas (Parliament),
participated in selected workshop sessions.
21.  Beneficiary assessment.    Beneficiary participation and assessment
will be an important feature of the community pilot project
implementation. The impact of services on clients will be evaluated
through baseline, mid-term and final studies incorporating beneficiary
assessments, computerized case monitoring and biannual site reports, and
annual conferences to review the pilots.
B. PROJECT BENEFITS
22. Component 1: Social Policy Development: The main benefits of the
component will be more efficient and effective social safety net policy
formulation, monitoring and evaluation. The Government spent an
estimated $499 million on social security cash benefits in 1995, but the
effectiveness of this spending is poorly understood not well known,
given the paucity of good data. Undeveloped information systems and
skill gaps result in imprecise Government evaluation of benefit policy
options at the design stage, causing policies which fail to achieve
their goals, or do so at a high cost, thereby precipitating budget
crises. The component will support development of a strategic plan for
social policy development, an improved human resources policy in the
MSSL, a policy monitoring and evaluation plan, and an applied training
program in social policy.
Fiscal impact through productivity improvements: The MSSL employs
94 staff. The current organization is highly inefficient, and less
than 50 percent of staff time is devoted to core policy development
tasks. Much time is unnecessarily spent on adjudicating individual
and municipal issues on a case by case basis (in a ministry with
roughly half the social policy development staff of its Irish
counterpart, a country of equivalent size). The strategic
management approach to operations will allow the MSSL to reorient
and redeploy its existing staff resources to better deliver and
implement policy. As a result of this reorientation, the percent
of staff time devoted to core policy development tasks is expected
to increase to over 75 percent by 2000. Thus, no increase in staff
is expected despite an increase in the complexity of MSSL tasks
- 7 -



resulting from the ongoing social security reform program.
Cumulative staff savings are estimated at US$126,000 in 1995 terms
(equivalent to 22 percent of the departments' current staff budget
over the same period) as compared with the non-project scenario.
The municipal/MSSL partnerships will define shared objectives and
areas of mutual competence, while cultivating the development of
best practice in social assistance benefit administration.
Fiscal impact through better policy: This component will provide
the MSSL with the tools it needs to formulate more effective
policies, improving the efficiency of fiscal expenditures
comprising a substantial percentage of GDP. It will also encourage
better oversight of SoDra operations.
Cost recovery: Not applicable for this component.
Poverty impact: This component will provide the Government with
the capacity for improved targeting of benefits through better
policy monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. Improved policy
analysis will also permit better anticipation of the likely impact
of transition policy measures on the poor, so that efficient and
effective compensatory measures can be designed if required.
Non-project scenario: In the absence of a project, the following
could be anticipated: (i) inefficient and inflexible organization
for developing and implementing social policy; (ii) poor oversight
of social service delivery agencies; (iii) irregular and unreliable
policy monitoring and evaluation; (iv) inefficient work
organization at the MSSL, and weak coordination with the
municipalities; and (v) less skilled managerial and line staff.
Alternatives considered: During project design, the MSSL undertook
a review of its work organization with the assistance of foreign
and local consultants, and assessed a range of options for
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of MSSL operations.
Options rejected included the creation of a new Department in the
Ministry (too expensive), and a merger of two social assistance and
social care divisions (functionally inappropriate).
Beneficiaries: This component will benefit: (i) MSSL clients (the
Government, Seimas, and municipalities) by improving the quality
and presentation of policy proposals that are produced by the
Ministry (100 percent of legislative proposals to Seimas and
Government are to have analysis of fiscal and social implications
attached by 1999); and (ii) the population, particularly the poor
or those at the margin, through a better anti-poverty interventions
based on an improved understanding of Lithuanian household
consumption, income, and behavior.
Monitoring and evaluation: A monitoring plan was agreed during
appraisal, and includes key development impact indicators. The
Operational Manual includes a more detailed plan and process for
feedback that outlines milestones and outcome indicators for each
key step.
-8-



23. Component 2: Community Social Services Pilot Projects: This
component will pilot three community based social service models to
demonstrate that these services are generally more effective and less
expensive than institutional care.
Fiscal impact: It is estimated that the three Multi-Service
Centers will serve a total of 1,655 clients. Of these, roughly
1,158 will be diverted from institutional placement. The average
annual savings per individual diverted is estimated at US$1,863
(based on the higher costs of institutional beds), saving the
Government US$2,157,354 per year. It is estimated that the
Education Center for Disabled Children will have ongoing costs that
are slightly less than institutional beds (based on an average of
24 children served per year), while providing better service to
those children kept out of institutions.
Cost recovery: Fee-based recovery for services in the multi-
service centers Most of these services are currently provided free
of charge. This issue will be examined as part of the proposed
social service financing study. A decision on cost recovery will
be guided by the study results, and this issue will be considered
during the mid-term evaluation.
Poverty impact: The project will improve the network of community
based services in the municipalities in order to help those
individuals in extreme need, many of whom are poor or living on the
margin, to lead more productive and satisfying lives. The service
areas of the six pilots have a population of 893,400, or about 24
percent of the total population of the country.
Non-project scenario: In the absence of a project, increased
reliance on institutional care for populations at risk (the
elderly, handicapped, and children), leading to more expensive and
less effective interventions at the community level, would be
anticipated.
Alternatives considered: During project preparation, a competitive
tendering process for the community pilots was developed and
implemented with foreign technical assistance. The six community-
based service pilots were selected from the sixteen responses to a
tender offer sent to each of the 56 municipalities in Lithuania.
This was the first tender offer ever conducted in the social
services in Lithuania. A nation-wide social worker training
program was rejected as overly-ambitious given current
institutional capacity.
Beneficiaries: This component will benefit disabled, elderly,
children at risk, and other populations as identified at the
community level. It is hoped that a client survey conducted by
1998 will show that over 50 percent of clients are satisfied with
services, and that a mid-term review that year will show that the
recurrent costs per person served are consistently lower than the
recurrent costs per institutionalized person in all pilots.
Monitoring and evaluation:    After the six pilot projects have been
-9-



operating for two years, a formative evaluation will be conducted
to determine the advisability of replicating the pilots, to be
followed by a second evaluation of the six centers after five
years. A monitoring plan was agreed during appraisal, and includes
key development impact indicators. The Operational Manual includes
a more detailed plan and process for feedback that outlines
milestones and outcome indicators for each key step.
C. RISKS
24. Better capacity might not be used: This project is an
institutional development intervention, whose main purpose is to improve
policy design and implementation. However, full implementation of the
project activities will not guarantee that the analytical results and
policy recommendations will be accepted by the Government and Seimas --
only that decision-makers should be better informed on the options.
Through the policy dialogue, the Bank will work with the Government to
reduce this risk. Implementation capacity: An associated risk of the
project is the inexperience in implementing externally-financed projects
of the MSSL. Work was undertaken during project preparation to minimize
these risks through training in project design and management as part of
a series of 'ZOPP' seminars aimed at ensuring project ownership led by
consultants from the German technical assistance agency GTZ, and through
development of the PCU. Financing and Pilot Replication: The community
social service pilots face the additional risk that local governments
will have insufficient funds to replicate the centers based on the
lessons learned from the pilots. There is the related risk that
communities attempting to replicate the pilots will lower specified
standards in order to reduce the costs of implementation, thereby
undermining the effectiveness of the pilot program. A financing study
will be undertaken to look at mechanisms to make financing more
flexible, and to examine possible ways of redirecting funding to
community-based services.
Contact Point        Louise Fox, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 22, 1996.
- 10 -



