International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R97-11 [SARI /1
FROM: Vice President and Secretary                                 Februarv 14, 1997
LITHUANIA - Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project
Staff Appraisal Report
(Corrigendum)
The attached pages 16, 37, 39 through 45 replace those in the Staff Appraisal Report
regarding a proposed loan to the Republic of Lithuania for a Social Policy and Community
Social Services Development Project (R97-11 [SARI) dated January 29, 1997. This project will be
considered at a meeting of the Executive Directors to be held on Tuesday, February 18, 1997
under the Streamlined Procedure.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President's Executive Committee
Senior Management, Bank, IFC and MIGA
The Staff Appraisal Report has a restricted distribution until the Executive Directors approve the project.
Following project approval, the document will be available upon request to the public.






Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15376 LT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
January 15, 1997
Municipal and Social Services Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Fixed Exchange Rate)
Currency Unit  =  Litas
Litas 1 = US$0.25
US $1   =  Litas 4.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPI - Consumer Price Index
DOS - Department of Statistics
EU - European Union
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GTZ  - Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
IMF - International Monetary Fund
MOF - Ministry of Finance
MSSL  - Ministry of Social Security and Labor
NCB - National Competitive Bidding
OECD  - Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU - Project Coordination Unit
PEF - Policy Evaluation Fund
PHRD  - Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (formerly Japanese Grant
Facility)
Seimas - Parliament of the Republic of Lithuania
SIF - Social Insurance Fund
SoDra - Social Insurance Agency
SOE - Statement of Expenditure
TOR - Terms of Reference
UNDP - United Nations Development Program
USD - U.S. Dollar
ZOPP - Zielorientierte Projektplanung (objectives oriented project planning)
LITHUANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
[ Vice President, Europe and Central Asia Region:  Johannes Linn
Director, Europe and Central Asia Country Department IV:   Basil Kavalsky
Chief, Municipal and Social Services Division, Country Department IV:  Thomas Blinkhorn
Project Task Manager: Louise Fox (Senior Economist, EC4MS)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
CONTENTS
BASIC DATA SHEET  ........................................   iii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ...............................   iv
I. BACKGROUND AND ISSUES ..............                         ..1................. 
A. The Economy .......................................   1
B. Social Safety Net Policy Development ........................   1
C. Institutional Structure  ..................................   2
D. Issues  ...........................................   3
E. Government Reform  Strategy  .............................   4
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................   6
THE PROJECT  ........................................   7
A. Project Objectives .          ....................................  7
B. Main Project Features ..................................    7
C. Description of Components ................................  8
Component 1: Social Policy Development  ....................  8
Component 2: Community Social Service Pilot Projects ....                 .......  10
Component 3: Project Management .......................  14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Lithuania from November, 1995,
comprising Messrs./Mmes. Louise Fox (senior economist, task manager), Philip Goldman (policy development,
deputy task manager), Caroline Mascarell (implementation issues) (EC4MS); Vilija Kostelnickiene (social
policy and operations) (EC4BS); David Tobis (community social service pilots), Marc Bellanger (civil works)
Algis Dobravolskas (strategic planning and operations); and Ronald Penton (community pilots). Richard James
provided assistance on the project costing and implementation issues. Rajakumari Stephen provided secretarial
support. Peer reviewers were Martha de Melo (PRDPH) and Alexander Preker (ECl/2HR). Basil Kavalsky is
the managing Department Director for the Europe and Central Asia Region and Thomas Blinkhom is Chief of
the Municipal and Social Services Division. The preparation of the project began under James Q. Harrison,
Division Chief of the former Human Resources Division for the region.



ii
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS ... 15
A.  Project Costs  .......................................   15
B.  Financing   .........................................   17
C.   Procurement       .......................................                                       18
D.  Disbursement .......................................   21
E.  Accounting and Audits   .................................   23
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ............                             ...................  25
A.  Organization and Management.  ............................  25
B.  Monitoring and Reporting   ...............................  27
C.  Project Supervision   ...................................  28
V. BENEFITS, RISKS AND  PARTICIPATORY  APPROACH   .... ..                                       .........  29
A. Benefits  ..........................................   29
B.  R isks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
C.  Participatory Approach  .................................   32
D.  Environmental Impact .........                          ........................  32
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ......                                               ......... 33
A.  Agreements Reached Prior to Negotiations  .....................  33
B. Agreements Reached During Negotiations ......................   33
C.  Recommendation  .....................................   34
TEXT TABLES
Table 3.1:  Project Cost Summary by Project Component ...................  15
Table 3.2:  Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Category   .................  16
Table 3.3:  Financing Plan (US$ millions)  ............................   18
Table 3.4:  Summary of Procurement Arrangements (US$ millions) .............  19
Table 3.5:  Disbursement by Category (US $ millions) .....................  22
Table 3.6:  Loan Disbursement Schedule (US$ millions) ....................  23
ANNEXES
ANNEX  A:  Project Objectives and Monitoring Plan  ......................  35
ANNEX  B:  Planned Procurement Package and Schedule  ...................  37
ANNEX  C:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule   .........................   38
ANNEX  D:  Project Costs and Financing Tables  ........................  39
ANNEX  E:  Supervision Plan  ....................................  46
ANNEX  F:  Contents of Operational Manual   ..........................   47
ANNEX  G:  Documents Available in the Project File   .....................  48
CHARTS
Chart 1.  Lithuania:  Organization of the Ministry of Social Security and Labor   ... ..  49
MAP IBRD No. 27884



iii
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
INDICATOR                            LITHUANIA                      YEAR
Country and Income Data
Area ('000 sq. km)                         65.2
GNP per capita (US$)                       1,350                    1994
Population Indicators
Population (millions)                      3.7                      1993
Females                              2.0                      1993
Males                                1.8                      1993
Population growth rate (percent)           0.8                      1992
Crude birth rate (per 1,000 population)    14.1                     1990
Crude death rate (per 1,000 population)    10.6                     1990
Population 60 + (percent)                  16.2                     1990
Population 65 + (percent)                  11.1                     1990
Population 65 +/population 15-64           16.8                     1990
Population 60+/population 20-59            30.3                     1990
Working age population (millions)          2.1                      1993
Women over 60/men over 60 (ratio)          1.7                      1990
Selected Social Indicators
Total labor force (millions)               1.90                     1993
Total employment (millions)                1.81                     1993
Life expectancy at birth (years)           71.1                     1992
Female advantage                     9.8                      1992
Life expectancy at age 15                  72.8                     1990
Fertility rate (average births per woman)  2.0                      1992
System dependency ratio' (percent)         53                       1991
Gross pension (all types)/gross wage (percent)   41                 1992
1/The ratio of persons receiving pensions divided by the number of workers contributing in the same
period.






iv
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Lithuania
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Social Security and Labor (MSSL), six municipalities, poor
and other vulnerable groups
Amount:              US$3.70 million equivalent
Terms:               Twenty years, including a five year grace period, at the IBRD standard
variable interest rate
Commitment Fees:   0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:      See Table 3.3.
Poverty Category:    Program of Targeted Interventions
Project ID:          LT-PA-8539






REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
A. The Economy
1.1   By 1990, Lithuania had undergone some fifty years of development under central
planning, with an export-oriented industrial base that was highly integrated with the other
republics of the Soviet Union, favorable terms of trade with those republics, a high level of
energy dependence on Russia, a skilled work force and a relatively developed infrastructure.
Severe economic and social shocks followed Lithuania's emergence as an independent state --
as a result, the country suffered a precipitous decline in output, with GDP falling some 13
percent in real terms in 1991, 38 percent in 1992, and 16 percent in 1993. With
independence, the Government embarked on a comprehensive reform agenda aimed at
reorienting to a market economy. A formal stabilization program was launched in October,
1992, and Lithuania has broadly remained within program targets, containing both monetary
expansion and the fiscal deficit. Notable progress has been made in the areas of fiscal
policy, currency and price reform, privatization, social safety net reform, and trade
liberalization. A new currency, the litas, was adopted in June, 1993, and was pegged to the
US$ at a rate of 4:1 under a currency board system in April, 1994. While there have been
periodic setbacks in the areas of privatization, banking, and trade reform, the country
succeeded in reversing the GDP decline with growth of about 1.5 percent in 1994 and 2.7
percent in 1995, and inflation has been reduced to single digit monthly levels (from about 50
percent in the first quarter of 1992). New private sector activity is growing and absorbing an
increasing percentage of the work force.
B. Social Safety Net Policy Development
1.2   During the transition to market, shifts in relative prices and other incentives that
accompany structural changes in the economy (such as the removal of subsidies) impose costs
on some households, and can particularly impact the poor and those at the margin. As the
Government continues to reduce its role as the redistributor of national income, it has
become increasingly important to establish a fiscally sound social safety net that targets
Lithuania's scarce social protection resources on the most vulnerable, reinforced by client-
responsive programs that support the productivity, dignity, and quality of life of the
individual.
1.3   Before independence, Lithuania's social security system was integrated with the social
programs of the Soviet Union, financed through the state budget, and regulated from
Moscow. This system was oriented to central planning, and assumed (i) almost full
employment; (ii) heavily subsidized basic commodities; and (iii) widespread access to almost



2
free (if generally low quality) services such as health care and education. After
independence, the Government introduced changes in the structure, financing, and
administration of the social programs it had inherited, hoping both to address its perception
that living standards were falling sharply for many households and to introduce social
insurance programs that were fiscally sustainable and directly linked to contributions.
Currently, three types of cash benefits are provided:
a.    social insurance benefits, which are based on contributions to the Social
Insurance Fund, and include old age, disability and survivors' pensions, short
term sickness and maternity benefits, unemployment benefits, and funeral
benefits;
b.    state allowances and pensions, with universal eligibility once certain conditions
are met including childbirth grant, extended maternity leave (childcare
benefit), foster care benefits, and pensions for special groups including
military and professors; and
C.    means tested allowances, which includes a general benefit and a winter heating
allowance.
The Government has been unable to measure the impact of these programs on household
income and consumption until recently, when the outmoded Soviet-era Household Budget
Survey was replaced with a more reliable instrument (see Para. 1.15, page 5).
1.4   The cost of social insurance benefits has been rising rapidly, despite continued policy
development. In 1993, an estimated 6.6 percent of GDP was spent on these benefits. Of
this, social insurance benefits (covering some 23 percent of the population) accounted for 5.7
percent of GDP, and the others 0.9 percent of GDP. The cost of social insurance benefits
rose to an estimated 8.7 percent of GDP in 1995 owing to the increase in pension benefits
granted in the 1994 social insurance legislation. While the new legislation has a number of
positive features, including universality and increased transparency, the entitlements provided
will cause costs to continue to climb over the medium term.
1.5   Prior to independence, Lithuania had an extensive, though austere and authoritarian,
system of social supports for well-functioning families, including creches, day care centers,
extensive public health care, after-school programs and summer recreation. But when
families or the elderly had severe difficulties, almost no forms of community-based help
(which can include a range of services such as counselling, job training, child care, and
material assistance) were available. The primary means of assistance was, and still is,
removal of children and placement in kinship foster families or institutional placement of
children, the disabled, or the elderly.
C. Institutional Structure
1.6   Ministry of Social Security and Labor. The MSSL, which is responsible for the
development, monitoring, and evaluation of social policy, is divided into three departments:
Income Guarantee, Social Care, and Employment (see Chart 1, page 49). The Income



3
Guarantee Department is responsible for social insurance and (cash) social assistance policy
design, implementation, and monitoring. The Department's Social Indicators Division
supports policy development in the Ministry, assessing minimum living standards and other
indicators used in benefit formulae, while the Division of Family Assistance develops and
monitors family assistance, maternity, and children's benefits. The Department of Social
Care oversees the operations of institutions for the elderly, invalids, and handicapped
children (especially drafting standards and guidelines) and also oversees the activities of the
Ministry training center. The Employment Department oversees the development of active
and passive labor market policies.
1.7   Social assistance. Means-tested social assistance entitlements are determined by
national legislation, but the implementation of this legislation is the responsibility of the
municipalities, using funds from their own budgets (which in turn are funded in part by
transfers from the state budget). Municipalities administer these benefits, as well as any
other special benefits provided at municipality discretion (such as emergency food aid or
fuel) through their own local assistance offices. Responsibility for institutional care is
gradually being transferred to local governments as well, although the MSSL currently sets
standards and supervises these institutions.
1.8    Monitoring and evaluating the impact of social policy is a new role for the MSSL, as
under the Soviet period these tasks (to the extent they were done at all) were performed in
Moscow. The current system of monitoring and evaluation is: (i) largely based on the
monitoring of current survey data (which until recently was unrepresentative of the
population, especially of the emerging private sector and marginal groups), with some
analysis of administrative and budgetary data; (ii) largely based on intra-agency collection
and analysis of information, and less reliant on inter-agency collection and analysis; (iii)
largely based on irregular evaluations of information for policy purposes, and less reliant on
systematic and regular evaluation of information; and, (iv) largely based on short-term
forecasting, and less reliant on medium to long-term forecasting.
D. Issues
1.9    The capacity of the administration inherited from the pre-independence period and
charged with developing and implementing social policy is extremely weak. The MSSL
lacks the skills and knowledge to estimate the fiscal and social implications of proposed
social policy (such as the pension law, which is proving to be fiscally unsustainable). The
role of the MSSL with respect to the social assistance offices is also limited. At present, it
consists of conveying, interpreting, and clarifying formulae and regulations enshrined in
legislation, and there is little or no prompt or reliable information that the MSSL can use to
track policy. Analytical policy work appears to be mostly conducted in an ad hoc fashion,
with little attention devoted to long-term strategy. Difficult tradeoffs between policy options
are not assessed, leading to ineffective and costly policy choices such as the new pension
law.
1.10 The Social Indicators Division relies on its own policy analysis, as well as the
analytical work of other MSSL divisions. At present, key evaluation issues concerning social



4
assistance are generally restricted to immediate budgetary priorities, and there is no regular
mechanism for evaluating a given policy once it is in place. The MSSL has insufficient
resources to: (i) identify a research program that would help the Government to establish
progress towards policy objectives; (ii) carry out that program, either on its own or in
cooperation with other agencies; and (iii) communicate evaluation results to the relevant
parties.
1.11  The above problems are compounded by a frequently inefficient and inflexible
organization for developing policy. Staff report spending 50 percent or more of their time
on non-core tasks, such as adjudication of benefit disputes at the local level. In part because
of its relatively recent emergence as an independent policy making institution, the MSSL has
been unable to formulate definitive strategic organizational goals, develop clear lines of
financial and managerial subordination, address critical gaps and overlaps in services
provided, utilize scarce physical and human resources efficiently, and establish the flexibility
to redeploy those resources and encourage teamwork between divisions.
1.12 Institutional placement continues to be the main service provided when problems
develop for children, families or the elderly because little community-based social assistance
is available. The need for assistance has risen since independence, as families cope with the
strains of the transition. Traditional models of service provision have been maintained, and
as a result there has been an increase of 34 percent in the number of children placed in
institutions between 1992 and 1994. The MSSL and the municipalities recognize the problem
and believe a reorientation is necessary, but are hampered by: (a) a lack of knowledge and
experience of appropriate alternatives; (b) a rapidly changing policy framework which has
resulted in some confusion regarding which levels of Government and which agencies are
responsible for these services; (c) fiscal constraints; and (d) a lack of understanding in
society about the needs of elderly, children, and disabled.
E. Government Reform Strategy
1.13 The Government is committed to continuing to improve the safety net, both in the
areas of policy design and implementation. During project preparation, the current policy
framework was reviewed by the MSSL and the Bank. A medium term policy agenda has
been prepared. Key items on the policy agenda for the medium term include:
a.    reformn of the public pension system to increase affordability and improve
incentives for labor supply;
b.    monitoring of the effectiveness of the social assistance system, with revisions
in benefit formulas as necessary to improve targeting; and
c.    reform of the policy framework for institutional care to provide incentives to
develop cheaper and better community-based alternatives.
The Government is also committed to undertaking the institutional changes needed to support
the realization of these policy goals.



5
1.14 To improve the effectiveness of the MSSL in safety net policy design, monitoring and
evaluation, the Ministry has undertaken a review of the work organization and staff
functions. With assistance from consultants, core tasks have been identified, and new
approaches to performing these tasks efficiently were explored during a seminar on strategic
management in August, 1995. These new approaches, which involve clarifying
responsibilities in the Ministry and formalizing relationships with service delivery agencies,
will be applied during the project period through the development and implementation of an
MSSL strategic plan. The plan will clarify agency functions, interrelationships and goals, set
organizational targets for improving service to MSSL clients, and develop a mechanism for
monitoring and evaluating MSSL performance. The result should be a more efficient,
effective, and flexible Ministry structure. Before negotiations, an acceptable outline of the
MSSL strategic plan approved by Ministry management was submitted to the Bank by the
Government (see Para. 6.1 (d), page 33).
1.15  To improve the information base for the design, monitoring, and evaluation of social
safety net policy, the Department of Statistics redesigned the household survey. Data from
the new survey was made available in mid-1996. The MSSL intends to use this data, as well
as an improved administrative information base to be developed under the project, to assess
better the social, economic and fiscal impacts of government policy. With the assistance of
consultants, the MSSL has identified a strategy for improving the quality of applied social
policy research, and will leverage its scarce resources for in-house analysis through increased
use of outside consultants selected through a competitive tendering process and funded
through a new Policy Evaluation Fund (PEF). Future legislation presented to Government
and the Seimas will incorporate the results of these analyses. Before negotiations, by-laws
for the Policy Evaluation Fund (PEF) acceptable to the Bank and a plan acceptable to the
Bank for implementing and funding the PEF were submitted by the Government (see Para.
6.1 (c), page 33).
1.16  The Government has adopted a new policy focus in the delivery of social assistance
and social care which includes a commitment to the family and the community as the primary
location for raising children and maintaining the elderly. This approach, in use in OECD
countries for over 30 years, has been shown to be more effective because individuals are
better off if they are assisted in the community. The cost of providing assistance is also less
when it is not residential. Implementing this commitment requires improving the
coordination between agencies and levels of government, as well as the development and
testing of new, non-institutional interventions.
1.17  The Government has already begun the process of developing new community-based
interventions. After extensive discussion in the Ministry and with municipal representatives,
the Government has decided to support the development of two types of community-based
services: (a) day schools for handicapped children, and (b) community multi-service centers.
With technical assistance financed by the Swedish Government and the PHRD Grant, outlines
of these two interventions were prepared. In the fall of 1995, municipalities were invited to
submit proposals to develop these programs on a pilot basis. Out of 16 proposals, the six
best were chosen by a panel of external and local experts. The municipalities have revised
their proposals based on further technical assistance. The implementation of the proposals
will be supported under the project. Mid-term and final evaluations of each pilot will be



6
undertaken with the goal of developing replicable models in other communities. The policy
framework governing institutional care is also being reviewed to increase flexibility and
encourage local governments to develop community-based approaches tailored to the needs of
their client base.
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.18  The Bank's assistance strategy for Lithuania recognizes the crucial need to re-orient
the social safety net through policy reform and institutional development. This project is part
of a wider Bank program to support the implementation of these goals. This project,
originally called the Social Safety Net Project, was developed in response to a Government
request for a broad social policy project. After appraisal, the Government reviewed the
project and requested that several components be postponed and reconsidered after the
November, 1995 election. The scope of this project was therefore reduced during
negotiations. The Bank is discussing the redesign of the remaining components with the
Government.
1.19  The institutional development activities supported by the Project will increase the
Government's options with respect to social policy reform. Bank support for project
activities will facilitate the ongoing policy dialogue on social safety net issues. Project
activities will also strengthen the Government's ability to monitor the social impact of the
transition and to develop measures to reduce this impact on vulnerable groups, thus
improving the chances that Lithuania's transition strategy supported by the Bank will be
implemented successfully.
1.20  This project supports the Government strategy to expand the role of the private sector
in social service delivery where appropriate. The project supports the development of a
system in the MSSL of competitive tendering for applied policy research contracts. While
the bulk of the contracts will probably go to researchers associated with government
universities and institutes, some could be awarded to private research firms, thus supporting
the development of this knowledge industry. In the pilot projects, it is envisaged that non-
governmental organizations may become subcontractors to provide some of the client
services.
1.21  Bank-supported project preparation activities have generated substantial donor interest
and participation. Each project component has attracted donor partnerships in the form of
commitments to finance or provide technical assistance. In total, approximately 39 percent
of project costs will be covered by donor financing. In component 1, the Dutch Govermnent
and UNDP are the partners. All technical assistance and training for component 2 will be
financed by the Swedish Government. Thus, the Bank has played a catalytic role in
attracting financing for project goals, while remaining the financier of last resort in project
activities.



7
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1   The Social Policy and Community Social Services Development project will support
the Government of Lithuania in providing social security to the population at an affordable
cost through institutional development activities to improve: (i) the capacity to analyze social
policy at all stages; and (ii) community social care services. This will be achieved through
the institutional development of the MSSL. The proposed project would assist the
Government in the following areas:
a.    developing the capacity of the MSSL to design, implement, monitor and evaluate
social safety net policies;
b.   reducing institutionalization of groups at risk (the handicapped, the elderly, etc.)
through the development, testing and replication of new community-based social
service models; and
c.    developing MSSL project management capacity.
B. Main Project Features
2.2   The project will be implemented over five years by the Ministry of Social Security
and Labor and six municipalities. Total project costs are estimated at about US$12.83
million. It comprises three components as follows:
1.    Social Policy Development Component
A.   Improved Resource Use in the MSSL
B.   Policy Monitoring, Evaluation, and Implementation
2.    Community Social Service Pilots Component
A.   Community Multi-Service Centers
B.   Centers for Disabled Children
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation
3.    Project Management Component



8
C. Description of Components
Component 1: Social Policy Development (US$2.60 million base cost, or 24 percent of
total base cost)
2.3   This component will support the development, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of the MSSL social policy agenda. It will improve the allocation of human and
financial resources within the Ministry through a strategic planning approach, so that scarce
organizational resources are used more effectively and priority policy development and
evaluation tasks appropriately addressed. The component will strengthen the Ministry's
capacity to develop workable social policy solutions for presentation to the MSSL's clients,
including Government, Parliament, and the municipalities, and to improve municipal
administration of cash social assistance. It will also strengthen local capacity to prepare high
quality social policy analyses through training for users of household survey data (such as
universities and institutes). Component indicators for monitoring and evaluation progress
towards objectives are outlined in Annex A (page 35).
Subcomponent A: Improved Resource Use in the MSSL (US$0.95 million base cost)
2.4   This subcomponent will improve the resource allocation within the MSSL through
implementation of a strategic planning approach to Ministry relationships with service
delivery agencies, including local governments. It will help the MSSL to implement and
evaluate a program to improve the effectiveness of the organization with respect to core
policy development tasks, to institute an improved human resource policy, and to improve
the monitoring of MSSL program performance.
a.    Strategic Plan for Social Policy Development. The efficiency and
effectiveness of the MSSL in developing social policy will be supported
through implementation of a strategic plan, including a mission statement,
corporate objectives, clear lines of financial and managerial subordination,
quantifiable program targets at all levels, agreed indicators of performance,
and a mechanism for periodic re-evaluation of objectives and targets.
Implementation of the plan will be supported through technical assistance to:
(a) facilitate reorganization associated with the plan; (b) improve inter-agency
and intra-agency linkages, particularly oversight and linkages with the
municipalities, including a feasibility study for administering cash social
assistance through a central agency; (c) improve client service, to include
support for an annual survey of municipal social service office clients; and (d)
develop monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for tracking agency
performance.
b.    Improved Human Resources Policy. The second set of activities under this
subcomponent will support implementation of a management and
administration training program (local training, fellowships, study tours,
workshops) to provide staff with necessary skills in areas such as public



9
administration and strategic management, budgeting, and use of hardware and
software. It will also support development of a Ministry personnel unit, which
will provide basic human resources services to management and staff.
2.5   Under this subcomponent, the project will finance technical assistance, fellowships
and training, and goods and furniture.
Subcomponent B: Policy Monitoring, Evaluation and Implementation (US$1.65
million base cost)
2.6   This subcomponent will strengthen the MSSL's capacity to assess social policies in
light of their social and fiscal impacts, and to prepare viable policy options for presentation
to other agencies and the broader public. It will assist the MSSL to improve the
management and analysis of survey and administrative data, and to produce and disseminate
regular reports on the impact of Government programs on the poor and vulnerable. It will
also strengthen local capacity to undertake social policy analysis through training of users of
the new household survey, and by supporting competitive contracting of social policy studies.
a.    Preparation of an Annual Social Report. The activities under this
subcomponent will support preparation and publication of an annual Social
Report. The Social Report will serve as a forum for decision-makers and
independent experts in social policy to review the situation of the poor and
vulnerable in Lithuania, to set priority areas to be addressed through social
policy, and to develop an appropriate action plan. Technical assistance and
training (including seminars and workshops on social policy issues) will be
provided to assist the MSSL to prepare and present the report.
b.    Applied Training Program. The second set of activities under this
subcomponent will support the establishment of a training program (seminars
and workshops, fellowships, and local and foreign training) to provide MSSL
staff and users of the household survey data with the skills necessary for
effective social policy monitoring and evaluation. Technical assistance and
training will be provided to develop skills in the areas of micro and macro
economics (especially human resources economics), actuarial/modeling
techniques, using household surveys for policy analysis, and related areas.
c.    Policy Evaluation Fund. The third set of activities under this subcomponent
will support the activities of the MSSL Policy Evaluation Fund (PEF), which
will strengthen local research capacity and improve the quality and relevance
of social policy analysis. The PEF will commission, select, review, and
disseminate studies on the implementation of the social policy agenda,
introducing a competitive tendering procedure for research contracts. The
project will help finance consultant services (local and foreign) identified by
the PEF board, including joint proposals by local and foreign researchers.



10
2.7   Under this subcomponent, the project will finance technical assistance, fellowships
and training, and equipment and materials.
Component 2: Community Social Service Pilot Projects (US$7.08 million base cost,
or 66 percent of total base costs)
2.8   This component will develop a feasible, cost-effective approach to social service
delivery that is community based and responsive to local needs. This approach should result
in fewer individuals being placed in institutional care, and better coordination of the delivery
of cash and non-cash benefits to clients by linking all social assistance offices and non-
governmental service providers in the community. It was designed in part on the basis of a
competitive tendering process with the municipalities (see para. 5.2, page 30). Component
indicators for monitoring and evaluation progress towards objectives are outlined in Annex A
(page 36).
Subcomponent A: Multi-Service Centers for The Elderly, Families with Children, and
the Disabled (US$4.02 million base cost).
2.9   This subcomponent will support the implementation of three pilot Multi-Service
Centers in Vilnius (the capital, pop. 590,100), Siauliai (pop. 147,800), and Svencionys (pop.
36,000), serving the elderly, families with children, and the disabled. The goal of the
subcomponent is to provide services to more than 1600 individuals a year that will help
prevent the institutionalization of more than 1100 of those individuals. The multi-service
centers differ in design because of varying local needs and existing resources. Different
projects will assist these groups of vulnerable individuals in the following ways:
Vilnius:    The Social Service Center in Vilnius will serve four vulnerable groups at risk
of institutional placement or homelessness: mentally handicapped young adults,
the elderly, mothers and their children who have been physically abused, and
alcoholics and drug abusers. The activities of the Social Service Center will
be coordinated by a screening office where staff will identify individuals'
problems and the most appropriate assistance for them. The four service
components are:
1. Training Center for Handicapped Young Adults. This program
will be located in underutilized space in a special school for mentally
handicapped children. Fifty four youth will be trained in carpentry,
sewing and taught other job skills. Relations will be established with the
Labor Exchange which will work to find jobs for these youth so that they
may lead financially and socially independent lives.
2. Day Center for the Elderly and Handicapped. This center will
provide a place for the elderly and the handicapped to have social
contact, participate in cultural activities and receive needed social
services. These types of social supports have been shown to prevent
institutionalization and deterioration of the elderly. In addition, twenty



11
two social workers will visit the frail elderly in their homes to prepare
their meals, provide housekeeping services and transport them to medical
and other needed services.
3. Shelter for Battered Mothers and Their Children. A former
nursery will be used as a temporary residence for approximately 40
mothers and their children who have been physically abused. Young,
single mothers without families who have been discharged from a
children's institution will also be able to use this as a temporary
residence. The project will provide social services to help these mothers
through their crisis and help them to find permanent and safe living
accommodations. Absent such a program, the young children might have
no place to live other than an institution after their families break up.
The mothers are at risk of homelessness.
4. Rehabilitation Center for Alcoholics and Drug Abusers. A day
center will be established for recovering alcoholics and drug abusers to
meet, and to receive counselling and social services. The program will
help keep families together so that children have a safe place in the
community.
Svencionys: Svencionys is a poor rural area in the west/east of Lithuania with many
vulnerable groups. One third of the population are pensioners, one hundred
now receive care, and 1,000 should receive care. Without care in their
homes, many will be placed in an institution. Svencionys will create a Social
Service Center with several components in different locations that will be part
of a network of services. The components are:
1. Reception Center. This Center would assess the needs of individuals
for services and refer them to the most appropriate program. The Center
would also coordinate the network of social service programs including
non-governmental organizations. This coordination will improve and
rationalize the delivery of services.
2. Social Rehabilitation Center for the Handicapped. This center will
be opened for children in the former nursery school "Gandriukas." This
center will provide education and training to help children learn to live
independently. It will also provide support to their parents so that their
children can live with them more easily.
3. Home Delivery of Services for the Elderly. This program will have
social workers visit the homes of 500 elderly, bring and prepare meals,
provide personal care and housekeeping services, and bring the elderly to
medical and other appointments, allowing them to live safely in the
community.



12
4. Program for Former Prisoners. Individuals who have returned
from prison have caused serious problems in Svencionys. This program
will provide a short-term residence, services and assistance to former
prisoners. Without this assistance, former prisoners returning to
Svencionys are more likely to commit new crimes and return to prison.
5. Temporary Residence for Children. A short-term residence will be
created for children who need a temporary place to live until a crisis in
their family is resolved or until a more permanent, long-term community-
based solution can be found such as living with a relative or foster care.
Social assistance will also be provided to the families of these children to
enable them to return home safely, thus avoiding the more costly and
harmful long term placement.
Siauliai:    The municipality of Siauliai has developed the beginnings of a social services
network to serve some of the individuals living in vulnerable situations, but
many individuals who are at risk of being institutionalized are not receiving the
assistance they need. The services that are provided are fragmented. There
are 860 invalids living alone, 530 pensioners over 70 years old living alone
(some of whom are at risk), 240 families in which both spouses are invalids,
and 2,160 families with children with income lower than the minimum living
level. The Social Services Center that will be created in the former Soviet
Army barracks will be both the coordinating center for social services for
Siauliai and a Day Employment Center and social service center for mentally
handicapped adults.
1. Coordinating Center for Social Services. The center will organize
different activities for almost 600 people. It will coordinate a network of
services including those provided by non-governmental organizations.
This coordination will improve and rationalize the delivery of services.
Twenty social work staff will provide home care to the elderly and the
handicapped, allowing them to have enough support to remain safely in
their homes. The Center will also become a training center for social
workers throughout the city to increase the number of individuals who
can work to prevent institutional placement.
2. Day Employment Center for the Handicapped. Handicapped
individuals at the Center will learn job skills and be assisted in finding
work. They will also learn housekeeping skills and other skills to live
independent lives and avoid institutional placement. Many of these
individuals live isolated from society; the Day Center will provide the
opportunity to socialize with others. A van will pick up individuals who
have difficulty walking, take them to the Day Center and return them
home at night.
2.10  Under this subcomponent, the project will finance technical assistance, staff training,
renovation of buildings, furniture, and special equipment for the centers.



13
Subcomponent B: Education Centers for Disabled Children (US$1.85 million base
cost).
2.11  The subcomponent will support the implementation of three Education Centers for
Disabled Children in Anyksciai (pop. 38,400), Moletai (pop. 27,100) and Utena (pop.
54,000). The goal of the subcomponent is to prevent over 70 handicapped children from
being placed an institution, by developing services in the community at a lower cost than
institutional placement. These children currently reside in their own homes, receive no
education or training, and have very little social contact. They are at risk of being placed in
an institution because of the strain on their parents. As they currently receive no training to
live independently, when their parents are no longer available as educators, the children will
be forced to reside in an institution. The Centers will prevent the institutionalization of these
children by educating them, teaching them to live independent lives, and providing support
and assistance to their families.
Anyksciai:   Sixty-four mentally handicapped children under the age of 20 live with their
families in the Anyksciai district. Forty-three of these children are socially
isolated and do not attend any school or activity. Unless assistance is provided
many of these children may be placed in institutions for the handicapped.
Anyksciai has established a small day center educating 15 handicapped
children. It will expand the existing center to serve an additional 25 children.
The program will add a job training and job placement program to help them
to develop skills to live financially and socially independent lives. The
component activities will enhance the training of the existing staff as well as
the staff for the expanded program. A special bus will pick up the children
every day at their homes and return them home at night. Parents will also
participate in the program at the center.
Moletai:     Forty mentally handicapped children under the age of 20 live with their
families in the rural area surrounding Moletai. They are socially isolated and
their parents live under great strain. Unless assistance is provided, many of
these children may be placed in institutions for the handicapped. Moletai will
establish a center to educate 24 of these children, train them to live
independently, provide basic job skills, and help them to gain self-confidence.
The center will work with the parents in their homes and in the center to teach
them how to improve the care provided to their children, and to reduce the
strain on them. A special van for the handicapped will be used to take these
children from their homes every day, bring them to the center and return them
home at night.
Utena:       Twenty two children in the Utena region live with their families but do not
attend school, and have little (if any) social contact outside of their immediate
family. The center will educate these children and train them to be able to
live in society independently. The center is being established in close
cooperation with the Utena Medical College, which is training occupational
therapists, nursing specialists and social workers who will have field



14
placements in the center during their studies and be employed by the center
upon graduation.
2.12  Under this subcomponent, the project will finance consultant services, staff training,
renovation of buildings, furniture, and special equipment for the centers.
Subcomponent C: Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.22 million base cost)
2.13  The subcomponent will support the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation
of the three Multi-Service Centers and the three Education Centers for Disabled Children.
Monitoring and evaluation will include the following activities: (i) a baseline study of social
service needs and services available; (ii) an analysis of funding of institutions and community
services that could recommend ways of redirecting funding to community-based services; (iii)
establishment of a computerized case monitoring system and bi-annual site reports; (iv)
annual conferences to review the pilot projects; (v) a mid-term evaluation to ensure that the
pilots are on schedule, and to provide a preliminary assessment of services; and (vi) a final
evaluation including the plan for replication. These activities will be used to determine if the
pilot projects are improving the quality of services provided, cost effective and replicable
alternatives to institutional placement for the various groups of clients served.
2.14  Under this subcomponent, the project will finance consultant services, training of
staff, and the cost of renovating and equipping facilities, equipment for the disabled and
vehicles for transporting the disabled and visiting the elderly.
Component 3: Project Management (US$1.02 million base cost)
2.15 This component will support the management of the implementation of project
activities through the development of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The project will
finance local consulting services, technical assistance and training in procurement, and
required PCU equipment.



15
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Cost Estimates
3.1   Total project costs, net of taxes and duties, are estimated at about US$12.31 million,
including physical and price contingencies of US$1.61 million. The project will finance civil
works, furniture, equipment and materials, vehicles, technical assistance, computer hardware
and software, and local and foreign training.
3.2   All local cost estimates are based on comparative unit prices currently prevailing in
Lithuania, while all foreign costs for machinery and equipment are based on prices prevailing
in the United States as well as other international sources. Base costs of all components
were calculated at 1996 prices, and under the assumption of a fixed exchange rate of 4
Litai/US$1.00 (February, 1996). Foreign costs also include provisions for shipment and
insurance to Lithuania. Tables 3.1 and 3.2 below summarize the estimated costs by
component and expenditure category, respectively. A detailed project cost and financing
summary table is provided in Annex D (see page 39).
Table 3.1 Project Cost Summary by Component
($ Millions)
LITAI                     US$               %      Total
For.   Base
Components        Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Exch   Costs
1. Social Policy   4.96    5.45     10.41    1.24    1.36     2.60    52     24
Development
2. Community      16.60    11.73   28.34    4.15     2.93     7.08    41      66
Social Services
Pilot
3. Project         1.77     2.31    4.08    0.44     0.58      1.02    57     10
Management
Total Baseline    23.33    19.49    42.82    5.83    4.87    10.71   46      100
Costs
Physical           1.40     0.86    2.25    0.35    0.21       0.56    38     5
Contingencies
Price              3.23    0.95     4.18    0.81    0.24      1.05    23      10
Contingencies
Total Project     27.96   21.30     49.26    6.99    5.33     12.31   43    --
Cost:
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding



16
Table 3.2 Project Cost by Expenditure Category
%     % Total
(Litas Million)           (USS Million)        Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                               3.05       -    3.05      0.76       -    0.76          -        7
B. Furniture & Other Supplies /a            0.70        -    0.70      0.18       -    0.18          -       2
C. Equipment
Office Equipment                             -    0.27      0.27        -    0.07     0.07       100        1
Computer Equipment                           -    0.25      0.25        -    0.06     0.06       100        1
Special Equipment /b                         -    0.82      0.82        -    0.20     0.20       100       2
Appliances                                0.15     0.24     0.40     0.04    0.06     0.10        61        1
Subtotal Equipment                           0.15    1.58     1.73     0.04     0.39    0.43        91       4
D. Vehicles                                    -    1.06      1.06        -    0.26     0.26       100       2
E. Consulting and Related Services          5.23    10.15    15.38     1.31    2.54     3.84        66      36
F. Training                                  1.21    6.71     7.93     0.30     1.68    1.98        85       19
Total Investment Costs                        10.35    19.49    29.84    2.59    4.87     7.46        65       70
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries                            6.41       -    6.41      1.60        -    1.60         -       15
B. Operating Expenditures
Administrative and Operating Costs        0.46        -    0.46      0.12       -    0.12          -        1
Operating and Maintenance Costs of Building  2.66     -    2.66      0.66       -    0.66          -       6
Supplies                                  0.34        -    0.34      0.08       -    0.08          -       1
Meal Service Program                      0.91        -    0.91      0.23       -    0.23          -       2
Audit                                      0.30       -    0.30      0.08       -    0.08          -        1
Subtotal Operating Expenditures             4.66        -    4.66      1.17        -    1.17         -       11
C. Other /c                                 0.15        -    0.15       04              0.04         -        -
D. Repair and Maintenance
Repair & Maintenance of Equipment         0.75        -    0.75      0.19       -    0.19          -       2
Repair & Maintenance of Vehicles           1.01       -    1.01      0.25       -    0.25          -       2
Subtotal Repair and Maintenance              1.76       -    1.76      0.44       -    0.44          -        4
Total Recurrent Costs                         12.98        -   12.98     3.25        -    3.25          -      30
Total Baseline Costs                          23.33    19.49    42.82    5.83     4.87    10.70       46      100
Physical Contingencies                       1.40    0.86     2.25     0.35    0.21     0.56        38        5
Price Contingencies                         3.23     0.95     4.18     0.81     0.24    1.05        23       10
Total PROJECT COSTS:   27.96   21.30   49.26        6.99    5.33   12.31         43
\a Include minor material supplies
\b Rehabilitation equipment for handicapped adults & children
\c Includes office rent
Totals may not add due to rounding
File: Sumea.xls



17
3.3    Recurrent Costs. Recurrent costs, estimated at US$3.93 million, are the incremental
operating costs generated by project investments. All local recurrent costs are financed
entirely by the state and the six participating municipalities in which community-based
service projects will be located. These recurrent costs arise from: (i) administrative and
operating activities associated with the PCU; (ii) operating and maintenance activities of the
Community Multi-Service and Disabled Children Centers; (iii) operating costs of equipment
(electricity and other); (iv) repair and maintenance of equipment (computer equipment,
special equipment and appliances); (v) supplies (for computer equipment, office equipment,
equipment for disabled, and other); (vi) repair and maintenance of vehicles; (vii) staff
salaries for MSSL and Multi-Service and Disabled Children Centers; (viii) meal service
programs for the Multi-Service and Disabled Children Centers; (ix) annual project audits;
and (x) other costs associated with conferences. These recurrent costs will be monitored
through the disbursement tracking system and examined closely during annual reviews.
B. Financing Arrangements
3.4    The proposed Bank Loan of US$3.70 million equivalent would finance about 30
percent of total project costs, including contingencies (see Table 3.3 and Annex D). The
Bank would finance 27.9 percent of foreign costs and 31.7 percent of local costs. The Bank
will not finance any recurrent costs, which will be financed by the state, municipalities and
donors.
3.5    Counterpart Funding. Lithuania's counterpart contribution is estimated at US$4.32
million (representing 35 percent of total project cost). The breakdown is as follows: The
Government of Lithuania will provide US$0.67 million, or about 5 percent of total project
costs, and the participating Municipalities will contribute US$3.65 million, or about 30
percent of total project costs.
3.6    Co-Financing Arrangements. Parallel co-financing for project technical assistance
and training activities on a grant basis, of about US$4.29 million has been confirmed. The
Government of Sweden has given preliminary confirmation of about US$3.44 million for
technical assistance activities under Component 2, and the Government of Netherlands has
confirmed an amount of US$0.85 million equivalent for Component 1. During Negotiations,
agreement was reached that in the event that proposed grant financing does not materialize,
the Government of Lithuania would find alternative financing (para. 6.2 (c), page 33).
3.7    Implementation Agreements. The MOF will provide direct grant assistance to the
participating municipalities to assist in the implementation of the proposed Community Multi-
Service and Disabled Children Centers. An Implementation Agreement has been entered into
between the MOF and each Municipality (para. 6.1(e), page 33). The respective
implementation responsibilities of the MSSL and the Ministry of Finance concerning
expenditure management and reporting requirements have also been agreed. As a condition
of loan effectiveness, a Project Implementation Agreement will have been executed on behalf
of the Ministry of Finance and MSSL on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the
purposes of the Project (para. 6.3 (e), page 34).



18
Table 3.3 Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Source of Funds     Local   Foreign    Total   % of Total
IBRD                2.22      1.49      3.70       30
Donors              0.46      3.84     4.30        35
Gov't of Lithuania  0.67       -       0.67        5
Municipalities      3.65       -        3.65       30
Total Project Cost:    6.99   5.33     12.31      100
C. Procurement
3.8    Since Lithuania does not have a long tradition of competitive bidding for
procurement of public goods and services, a Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR) is not required at this stage. A "Country Procurement Note" (CPN) dated May,
1995, containing information about bidding opportunities (for procurement on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding) was prepared, which established that the Government has
started to introduce forms of competitive bidding. The Government has adopted legislation
instituting public procurement regulations as part of its comprehensive program to transform
its centrally planned economy to a market-oriented system based on the development of a
competitive private sector. However, the progress in developing and implementing national
procurement regulations with associated monitoring system has been slow to date. The
Borrower will follow the Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (January, 1995, revised January and August, 1996). Similarly, all Consulting
Services will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for "Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency" (August, 1981).
Since legislation regulating national procurement procedures might take some time, the
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurement under the project will follow the Bank's
Guidelines and the Regional Bidding documents for the Procurement of Works through NCB
(less than US$250,000), issued by the Region on August, 1995. For individual or other
small consulting contracts, sample Bank documents will be used. Procurement arrangements
are summarized in Table 3.4.
3.9     All procurement methods are described in the Operational Manual, which are
consistent with Bank Guidelines. The detailed procurement plan relating to the nature and
size of the packaging, procurement methods and the schedule of the procurement activities
are in Annex B. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) was initially published in
Development Business, No. 429, December 31, 1995, and was updated on November 30,
1996 (Issue No. 451). The GPN shall be updated annually for all outstanding procurement.
3.10   A technical assistance and training plan for developing the capacity of the PCU to
manage the project, including procurement arrangements, is undergoing implementation.
The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to carry out the Bank's procurement
procedures will be strengthened further through ongoing training and the use of standard



19
bidding documents. In addition, provision of foreign technical assistance for the PCU should
ensure adequate administration of procurement. The Bank will conduct a Project Launch
Workshop in the first half of 1997 to include training sessions on procurement for the staff of
the PCU. Procurement activities will also be monitored regularly through Bank supervision
missions.
Table 3.4: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
($ Million)
Procurement Method
Project Element                            NCB    J_Other"          N.B.F.        Total
A. Civil Works
0.96                                   0.96
1. Rehabilitation                          (0.96)          -                       (0.96)
B.   Goods
1. Computer Equipment                                   0.07                       0.07
(0.07)                    (0.07)
2. Special Equipment for                                 0.25                      0.25
Handicapped & Elderly                               (0.25)                    (0.25)
3. Office Equipment                                      0.08                      0.08
(0.08)                    (0.08)
4. Facility Appliances and                               0.12                      0.12
Supplies                                            (0.12)                     (0.12)
5. Furniture & other Supplies                           0.22                       0.22
(0.22)                    (0.22)
6. Vehicles                                              0.29          -           0.29
(0.29)                    (0.29)
C.    Consultancies
1. Technical Assistance                                  2.26         1.98          4.24
(1.27)      (0.07)       (1.34)
2. Training                                              0.53         1.61          2.14
(0.37)                    (0.37)
D.   Miscellaneous
1. Recurrent Expenditures                                  -          3.93         3.93
Total                                      0.96          4.14        7.21         12.31
(0.96)       (2.67)       (0.07)      (3.70)
Totals may not add due to rounding
Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
N.B.F - Not Bank Financed; N.C.B. - National Competitive Bidding
1/ Other Methods of procurement include International Shopping (IS) - US$0.82 million, National Shopping (NS) -
US$0.22 million, and Shortlisting (SL) - US$1.63 million.



20
3.11   Management of Procurement. The PCU will carry out procurement of all goods
and services and for civil works for the project using Standard Bidding Documents and
evaluation guidelines. The PCU will manage and keep records of all procurement operations
and ensure compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement. The PCU
will closely coordinate with component and sub-component coordinators on procurement
related matters. The technical specifications, terms of reference, evaluation methodologies
and reports for procurement operations under the project will be prepared jointly between the
component and sub-component coordinators and the PCU. The PCU will also be responsible
to ensure that all major procurement steps are carried out in accordance with the Bank
guidelines and procedures. The PCU will maintain a procurement registry of all
procurement operations under the project to be submitted as part of the semi-annual progress
reports.
3.12   Co-financing would be carried out in parallel, and thus procurement for non-Bank
financed sub-components would be carried out in accordance with procurement regulations of
the respective financier. The PCU would carry out the Bank financed procurement.
3.13   Procurement of Civil Works (US$0.96 million). The project will support
rehabilitation of existing facilities under Community Social Service Pilot Projects (component
2 of the project). Contracts valued less than US$250,000 equivalent would be procured
using NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, nationally advertised to ensure adequate
competition. The project has given consideration to Lithuania's competitive and highly
skilled construction sector. Moreover, the type of construction works envisaged under the
project are minor rehabilitation in different parts of the country, consisting mainly of
upgrading existing structures that are well within the capacity of domestic industry and are
unlikely to be attractive to foreign firms. International bidders shall be allowed to participate
in the bids in accordance with the World Bank Procurement Guidelines.
3.14   Community Social Services Pilot Component. The project will finance the
rehabilitation and upgrading of Community Multi-Service and Disabled Children Centers
under this component. Three contracts, with an aggregate amount of $687,000 to upgrade
existing multi-service centers, and another three contracts with an aggregate amount of
$175,000 to rehabilitate education centers for disabled children in the project municipalities,
are expected.
3.15    A preliminary civil works plan outlining all civil works operations, including an
implementation schedule of critical activities, has been already prepared. Since all civil
works are for rehabilitation, no land acquisition will be needed. Clear title to land and
building or a suitable long-term lease will be required prior to proceeding with civil works
operations envisaged under the project.
3.16   Procurement of Goods (US$1.04 million). The project will finance computer
equipment, special equipment for handicapped and elderly, office equipment, appliances and
supplies, furniture and other supplies, and vehicles for the Ministry of Social Security and
Labor, and the Multi-Service and Disabled Children Centers. Equipment plans have already
been prepared by the Government. Smaller contracts of up to $250,000 equivalent, such as
for computer equipment ($0.07 million); special equipment for handicapped and elderly



21
($0.22 million); office equipment ($0.07 million); facility appliances and supplies ($0. 11
million), furniture and other supplies ($0.20 million) and vehicles ($0.29 million) would be
procured through International Shopping procedures based on comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible countries . Since contracts for
furniture and supplies for various municipal community service centers would be required at
different times and in numerous small off-the-shelf packages, it is most expedient to follow
National Shopping procedures. Therefore, contracts for furniture and other supplies costing
less than US$30,000 equivalent would be procured through comparison of at least three price
quotations.
3.17    Procurement of Consulting Services (US$ 4.24 million) and Training (US$ 2.14
million). A strategy for hiring consultants would be submitted to the Bank for review and
approval as part of the annual Action Plan before consultants are hired. Consulting and
training services would be procured on a competitive selection basis following the World
Bank's guidelines and procedures (see para 3.8, page 18). Consulting services will be
required in the areas of: strategic management and facilitation; strategic management in
social assistance; social assistance benefit management and administration; rehabilitation of
disabled children and adults; rehabilitation of prisoners; project benefits monitoring and
evaluation; social policy reforms; and project management and implementation. It is
envisaged that there will be approximately ten separate contracts financed by the Bank (see
Annex B, page 37). All such consulting contracts will be awarded on a competitive selection
basis.
3.18    Prior Review. All procurement packages above US$200,000, and the first two civil
works contracts, would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. For consulting
services, prior review is required for all contracts with individuals exceeding $50,000, all
contracts with consulting firms exceeding US$100,000, and terms of references for all
consulting services irrespective of the contract value. Other procurement would be subject to
the Bank's post review during supervision of the project, in accordance with the procurement
guidelines.
D. Disbursement
3.19   The proposed Bank loan of US$3.70 million equivalent would be disbursed over a
period of five years with an estimated completion date of April, 2001. Disbursements
would be made against the categories of expenditures as indicated in Table 3.5.
3.20   Disbursement requests will be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the PCU with
the required supporting documentation. It is expected that administrative staff from the PCU
would participate in disbursement training organized by the Bank.



22
Table 3.5: Disbursement Categories
($ Million)
Category                Amount (US$      % of Expenditure to be
million)             rinanced
1. Civil Works                            0.96      100% of foreign expenditures
and 82% of local expenditures
2. Equipment, Vehicles and Supplies       1.04       100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3. Consulting and Training Services       1.70       100%
Total                            j     3.70
3.21   Retroactive Financing. Up to US$350,000 would be financed retroactively for
eligible expenditures. Retroactive financing is justified since critical project activities are
already underway, all of which are eligible for financing under the proposed project. All
Community pilots (Multi-Service and Disabled Children Centers) have been identified. A
Strategic Plan for MSSL to improve work organization is close to completion. By-laws and
procedures for the Policy Evaluation Fund in the MSSL have also been established. Lastly,
a draft Operational Manual has been prepared by the Borrower and was reviewed by the
Bank. Agreement was reached during negotiations on the maximum amount, nature of items
that will be eligible for retroactive financing, and the effective date for retroactive financing
(para. 6.2 (d), page 33).
3.22   Documentation of Expenditures. Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) would be used
for reimbursement of less than US$200,000 for civil works and goods. Consultant contracts
of US$100,000 equivalent or less for firms, and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals would
also be made on the basis of SOEs. Contracts below these thresholds would be made on the
basis of SOE, for which supporting documentation would be consolidated and maintained in
the PCU and would be made available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision
missions. Applications for direct payment and special commitment may be submitted
provided they are for amounts equivalent to at least US$70,000. The Bank would not honor
direct payments below US$70,000.
3.23   Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would
establish a Special Account in a major foreign commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized
allocation would be US$350,000. At the request of the Borrower, and based on project
needs, the Bank would make an initial deposit into the Special Account up to the authorized



23
allocation. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.
Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the standard Bank procedure.
Monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower
would accompany all replenishment requests.
3.24   Project Preparation Facility. The Government has requested a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) advance to complete the preparation and design of the different project
components. The requested amount is approximately US$700,000 and is expected to be used
to finance technical assistance and a limited amount of computer equipment to test the
proposed management system. Any unutilized amount will be refunded before project
becomes effective.
Table 3.6: Loan Disbursement Schedule
($ Million)
FY 1997     FY 1998      FY 1999     FY 2000      FY 2001
Annual          2.38         0.34        0.42         0.28        0.28
Cumulative      2.38    J    2.72        3.14         3.42        3.70
E. Accounting and Audits
3.25   The PCU will maintain records for each project component, and consolidate them
into the project accounts and SOEs. Supporting documentation will be maintained by the
PCU and made available to Bank missions and independent auditors as required. The PCU
will maintain and prepare separate accounts of expenditures for each project component. It
would also prepare and provide the Bank semi-annual reports on implementation progress
along with a financial statement of project expenditures. The accounting records would show
expenditures by date, currency, financing source (World Bank, Government, or co-financier),
category of expenditure and project component and subcomponent. All project-related
accounts will be prepared in accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures.
3.26   Project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, will be audited annually
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles applied by external private independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, with terms of reference for auditors and reports approved by
the Bank. The costs of the consultant services to be employed for such annual audits will be
fully incurred by the Government. Audit reports will be furnished to the Bank within six
months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. It is recommended that the Government
retain the same auditors throughout the project life cycle, to review the accounting systems
and supporting internal procedures and practices for the project accounts and SOEs. This
would permit auditors to review the accounting records early on and make recommendations
for needed improvements. It would also permit auditors to perform interim audit work
during the year so that they can complete the audit on a timely basis.



24
3.27   Financial accountability will be a fundamental tool for monitoring project
implementation and management. The PCU will be responsible for monitoring the project's
financial information, ensuring that all project expenditures and commitments are consistent
with the project's agreed allocations for expenditure categories. Such reliable and timely
financial information will be critical to good decision-making. The PCU will ensure that all
project objectives are successfully achieved. Good accounting practices will enable a review
of financial aspects of the project as against the achievements expected, thus providing a
vehicle for the comparison of planned versus actual performance. The development and
maintenance of a good financial information system will therefore be vital for effective
project management. As a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower will have in place a
project expenditure management system within MSSL acceptable to the Bank (para 6.3 (a),
page 34).
3.28   The Operational Manual will provide guidance on accounting and auditing to the
Government in the implementation of Bank assisted projects, drawing from information
provided in the Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH). The
objective will be to provide a reasonable level of understanding of the role of financial
management in overall project management and the importance of various elements,
including accounting system design, the linkage of financial information to key indicators of
project objectives and financial reporting, and audits. The Operational Manual will also
provide template formats for financial statements, standard forms for audit documentation,
and sample generic terms of reference for audits.



25
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.1    The project was prepared by Lithuanian working groups from the Ministry of Social
Security and Labor, assisted by consultants financed through the project PHRD fund.
Government commitment and ownership of project objectives, activities, and outputs was
strengthened through two project preparation workshops facilitated by the German technical
assistance agency GTZ, using the participatory planning approach 'ZOPP.' During those
workshops, the participants confirmed the importance a strong Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) will play during implementation.
4.2    The PCU will consist of the project director, an accountant, a part-time social policy
training coordinator, a part-time strategic planning coordinator, an implementation
coordinator for the Community Social Services Pilots Component, a procurement/civil works
specialist, a training and evaluation specialist, and an interpreter/project secretary (all local
staff). The PCU will receive policy guidance and act as the secretariat of the project
Steering Committee of the MSSL, chaired by the Minister and including representatives from
the senior management of the Ministry. An external advisor in project management will be
employed to complement local staff as long as necessary throughout the project. Funds are
allocated in the project for other external technical assistance which may be required (e.g.,
with the preparation of the mid-term evaluation). An Operational Manual describing the
organization of the PCU, its functions, and responsibilities, and the linkages between the
different entities, as well as report formats and administrative steps to be followed in
implementing and monitoring the project will be prepared by the PCU. Before Negotiations,
the Government provided the Bank with a draft of the Operational Manual (para. 6.1 (b),
page 33). As a condition of loan effectiveness, a final Operational Manual satisfactory to the
Bank for the purposes of the Project will have been adopted (para. 6.3 (d), page 34).
4.3    The PCU, reporting to the Steering Committee, will be responsible for the timely
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project activities. The PCU will ensure
effective administration of critical project activities. Specific tasks of the PCU will include:
(a) coordinate implementation of various activities and ensure that all resources
utilized under the project are in accordance with priorities and objectives
defined;
(b) monitor and report to the Steering Committee and to the Bank on the progress
toward achievement of the project objectives and the agreed policy measures;
(c) monitor and evaluate systematically activities agreed to in implementation plans
by making periodic assessment of the relevance, performance and impact of
these activities, ensuring that project objectives are achieved;
(d) monitor availability of counterpart funds when required for the project;



26
(e) manage and keep records of all procurement operations ensuring compliance
with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement;
(f) maintain a procurement registry of all procurement operations under the project;
(g) maintain records for each project component, and consolidate them into project
accounts and SOEs;
(h) monitor the project's financial information ensuring that all project expenditures
and commitments are consistent with the project's agreed allocations for
expenditure categories;
(i) manage contracting of technical assistance services and monitor the placement
and performance of staff receiving training, as well as the consultants hired
under the project;
(j) prepare and distribute consolidated periodic reports to the relevant government
authorities and to the Bank reflecting: (a) the status of implementation process,
problems encountered and corrective actions needed, and (b) current costs of
each project component and estimated costs of completion;
(k) ensure the timely preparation and submission to relevant government authorities
and the Bank of annual audit reports of project expenditures (including SOEs)
and accounts;
(I) monitor compliance with legal covenants; and
(m) prepare and complete relevant sections of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) at the close of the Project.
4.4    Specific project coordination responsibilities are as follows:
*  The project director will report to the Minister. The director will be responsible
for managing the PCU, and maintaining clear and open communication with all
project stakeholders -- the component coordinators, the Steering Committee, the
Ministry of Finance, other ministries and parts of Government, beneficiaries,
other donors, etc.
*  The accountant will be responsible for monitoring the projects's financial
transactions covering budgeting and accounting, disbursements, audit, and all
procurement contracts.
*  The training and evaluation specialist will oversee implementation of the
training, monitoring and evaluating plan for the pilots.



27
* The civil works/procurement specialist (with the support of an external advisor)
will oversee all procurement activities, ensuring the standard bidding documents
are used and the Bank's procedures are fully complied with, and oversee the
implementation of the civil works plan for the pilots (ensuring that all civil
works are performed at or above agreed quality standards and in accordance
with agreed architectural specifications, timetables and budgets). This individual
will also be responsible for maintaining all procurement records, and contribute
to the annual, mid-term, and final reviews for the project.
*  The PCU component coordinators will be responsible for the day-to-day
management of each subcomponent, and will oversee implementation,
monitoring, and evaluation activities by the component working groups, local
and foreign consultants, and those undertaking civil works and other component
activities, and also contribute to annual, mid-term, and final project reviews.
*  A pilot coordinator in each municipality will be responsible for all aspects of
pilot implementation at the local level, working directly under the supervision of
the PCU component coordinator and with the PCU civil works/procurement
specialist. The coordinator will report to the PCU director on a monthly basis.
A management consultant has been retained under the project and is currently
working with the counterparts to set up central/local project management
procedures.
4.5    The Project Management Plan (PMP) (included in the Operational Manual) will
describe the organization of the PCU, its functions and responsibilities, and the linkages
between the different entities, as well as report formats and administrative steps to be
followed in implementing and monitoring the project. The PMP will be prepared by the
PCU. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the PCU will have been established within MSSL,
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and a project director and key staff
whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank, have
been appointed (para. 6.3(b), page 34). Also as a condition of loan effectiveness, the
Borrower will have entered into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of
project management advice to the PCU para. 6.3 (c), page 34).
B. Monitoring and Reporting
4.6    The Steering Committee and the PCU will be responsible for monitoring project
implementation activities. The Implementation Plan (included in the Operational Manual)
includes for each component project performance indicators which will be used to track the
progress made (see Annex A, page 35). These indicators were developed by the project
working groups. The plan includes both process and outcome targets, covering: fiscal impact
(such as cost savings from de-institutionalization, improved use of resources within the
MSSL), beneficiary impact (i.e., improved client satisfaction with community pilots), quality
of service (i.e., improved economic analysis of policy options), and progress in planned
activities (i.e., programs implemented, strategic plans completed). During negotiations, the
Government confirmed agreement on the performance indicators (para 6.2(a), page 33).



28
4.7    The PCU will ensure that all reporting requirements under the project are carried out
in accordance with the appropriate formats and with the agreed submission schedules. The
director will be responsible for ensuring that the monitoring of each component is carried out
and reported to project management and the Bank (in accordance with the monitoring plan
included in the Operational Manual). Semiannual project implementation reports will be
submitted to the Bank by June 30 and December 31 of each calendar year, with the latter
also including a draft Annual Action Plan for the upcoming calendar year for Bank approval.
The Government and the Bank will conduct joint reviews in an annual supervision mission on
the progress made in the implementation of the project of each year. During these reviews,
the Bank and the Government would agree upon proposed Action Plans incorporating the
results of the process evaluations. The approved Action Plans would determine the specific
activities eligible for financing under the project. Only those activities in the approved plans
would be eligible for project financing.
4.8   An Implementation Completion Report would be submitted to the Bank promptly after
the completion of the project, but in any event not later than six months after the Loan
Closing Date. Included in the ICR would be an assessment of: the execution and initial
operation of the project, its costs and benefits derived or to be derived, the performance of
the Borrower and the World Bank and other agencies involved on their respective obligations
and accomplishments, and lessons learned. Agreement was reached during negotiations on
the reporting requirements and formats (para 6.2(b), page 33).
C. Project Supervision
4.9    The proposed project would be supervised by Bank personnel from both headquarters
and the Vilnius office of the Regional Mission from the Baltic Countries. In view of the lack
of experience of the Borrower with Bank project implementation and procurement
procedures,, the project will require a considerable supervision effort from the Bank at an
average of 18 staff-weeks per fiscal year during the first two years and, thereafter, 12 staff-
weeks per fiscal year (see Annex E, page 46).
4.10   A mid-term review, scheduled for March, 2000, would be conducted to evaluate
project progress, the impact of project objectives and to assess the status of actions to be
undertaken.



29
V. BENEFITS, RISKS AND PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
A. Benefits
5.1    Component 1: Social Policy Development. The main benefits of the component will
be more efficient and effective social safety net policy formulation, monitoring and
evaluation. The Government spent an estimated $499 million on social security cash benefits
in 1995, but the effectiveness of this spending is not well known given the paucity of good
data. Undeveloped information systems and skill gaps result in imprecise Government
evaluation of benefit policy options at the design stage, causing policies which fail to achieve
their goals, or do so at a high cost, thereby precipitating budget crises. The component will
support development of a strategic plan for social policy development, an improved human
resources policy in the MSSL, a policy monitoring and evaluation plan, and an applied
training program in social policy.
*  Fiscal impact through productivity improvements: The MSSL employs 94 staff.
The current organization is highly inefficient, and less than 50 percent of staff time
is devoted to core policy development tasks. Much time is unnecessarily spent on
adjudicating individual and municipal issues on a case by case basis (in a ministry
with roughly half the social policy development staff of its Irish counterpart, a
country of equivalent size). The strategic management approach to operations will
allow the MSSL to reorient and redeploy its existing staff resources to better deliver
and implement policy. As a result of this reorientation, the percent of MSSL staff
time devoted to core policy development tasks is expected to increase to over 75
percent by 2000. Thus, no increase in staff is expected despite an increase in the
complexity of MSSL tasks resulting from the ongoing social security reform
program. Cumulative staff savings are estimated at US$126,000 in 1995 terms
(equivalent to 22 percent of the departments' current staff budget over the same
period) as compared with the non-project scenario.  The municipal/MSSL
partnerships will define shared objectives and areas of mutual competence, while
cultivating the development of best practice in social assistance benefit
administration.
*  Fiscal impact through better policy: This component will provide the MSSL with
the tools it needs to formulate more effective policies, improving the efficiency of
fiscal expenditures comprising a substantial percentage of GDP.
* Cost recovery: Not applicable for this component.
*  Poverty impact: This component will provide the Government with the capacity
for improved targeting of benefits through better policy monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms. Improved policy analysis will also permit better anticipation of the
likely impact of transition policy measures on the poor, so that efficient and
effective compensatory measures can be designed if required.



30
*   Non-project scenario:  In the absence of a project, the following could be
anticipated:   (i) inefficient and inflexible organization for developing and
implementing social policy; (ii) poor oversight of social service delivery agencies;
(iii) irregular and unreliable policy monitoring and evaluation; (iv) inefficient work
organization at the MSSL, and weak coordination with the municipalities; and (v)
less skilled managerial and line staff.
*  Alternatives considered: During project design, the MSSL undertook a review of
its work organization with the assistance of foreign and local consultants, and
assessed a range of options for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of MSSL
operations. Options rejected included the creation of a new Department in the
Ministry (too expensive), and a merger of two social assistance and social care
divisions (functionally inappropriate).
*  Beneficiaries: This component will benefit: (i) MSSL clients (the Government,
Seimas, and municipalities) by improving the quality and presentation of policy
proposals that are produced by the Ministry (100 percent of legislative proposals
to Seimas and Government are to have analysis of fiscal and social implications
attached by 1999); and (ii) the population, particularly the poor or those at the
margin, through a better anti-poverty interventions based on an improved
understanding of Lithuanian household consumption, income, and behavior.
* Monitoring and evaluation: A monitoring plan was agreed during appraisal, and
includes key development impact indicators (see Annex A, page 35).  The
Operational Manual includes a more detailed plan that outlines milestones and
outcome indicators for each key step.
5.2    Component 2: Community Social Services Pilot Projects: This component will pilot two
community based social service models to demonstrate that these services are generally more
effective and less expensive than institutional care.
* Fiscal impact: It is estimated that the three Multi-Service Centers will serve a total
of 1,655 clients. Of these, roughly 1,158 will be diverted from institutional
placement. The average annual savings per individual diverted is estimated at
US$1,863 (based on the higher costs of institutional beds), saving the Government
US$2,157,354 per year. It is estimated that the Education Center for Disabled
Children will have ongoing costs that are slightly less than institutional beds (based
on an average of 24 children served per year), while providing better service to
those children kept out of institutions.
* Cost recovery Most of these services are currently provided free of charge. This
issue will be examined as part of the proposed social service financing study. A
decision on cost recovery will be guided by the study results, and this issue will be
considered during the mid-term evaluation.



31
* Poverty impact: The project will improve the network of community based
services in the municipalities in order to help those individuals in extreme need,
many of whom are poor or living on the margin, to lead more productive and
satisfying lives. The service areas of the six pilots have a population of 893,400,
or about 24 percent of the total population of the country.
*  Non-project scenario:  In the absence of a project, increased reliance on
institutional care for populations at risk (the elderly, handicapped, and children),
leading to more expensive and less effective interventions at the community level,
would be anticipated.
*  Alternatives considered:  During project preparation, a competitive tendering
process for the community pilots was developed and implemented with foreign
technical assistance. The six community-based service pilots were selected from
the sixteen responses to a tender offer sent to each of the 56 municipalities in
Lithuania. This was the first tender offer ever conducted in the social services in
Lithuania (see para. 2.8, page 10). A nation-wide social worker training program
was rejected as overly-ambitious given current institutional capacity.
-   Beneficiaries: This component will benefit disabled, elderly, children at risk, and
other populations as identified at the community level. It is hoped that a client
survey conducted by 1999 will show that over 50 percent of clients are satisfied
with services, and that a mid-term review that year will show that the recurrent
costs per person served are consistently lower than the recurrent costs per
institutionalized person in all pilots.
e   Monitoring and evaluation: After the six pilot projects have been operating for two
years, a mid-term, formative evaluation will be conducted to determine the
advisability of replicating the pilots, to be followed by a second evaluation of the
six centers after five years. A monitoring plan was agreed during appraisal, and
includes key development impact indicators (see Annex A, page 35).  The
Operational Manual includes a more detailed plan that outlines milestones and
outcome indicators for each key step.
B. Risks
5.3    Implementation capacity. Owing in part to initial overestimation of the Borrowers'
project management skills and experience with international procurement, social sector
projects in Eastern Europe tended to proceed much slower than was predicted at appraisal.
Project designs are now being simplified, greater attention is being paid to ownership up
front, and the role of project management in implementation is being strengthened. These
lessons have been incorporated in the design of this project. Work was undertaken during
project preparation to strengthen Borrower capacity, including training in project design and
management and development of the PCU. The inexperience in implementing externally
financed projects in the executing agencies remains a project risk. To support project
implementation, and especially disbursement, technical assistance in project management has



32
been included in the project. Disbursement projections for the first 18 months of the project
are cautious, reflecting this risk.
5.4    Better capacity might not be used. This project is an institutional development
intervention, whose objective is to improve policy design and implementation. However, full
implementation of the project activities will not guarantee that the analytical results and
policy recommendations will be accepted by the Government and Seimas (Parliament) -- only
that decision-makers should be better informed on the options. Through the policy dialogue,
the Bank will work with the Government to reduce this risk.
5.5    Financing and Pilot Replication. The community social service pilots face the
additional risk that local governments will have difficulty financing recurrent project costs
over the long run or may lower specified standards in order to reduce costs. As a condition
of participation in the project, the municipalities have promised financing for all recurrent
costs of the pilot project over the project period. The project's financing study will identify
ways to redirect existing funding toward community-based services, facilitating long-term
funding and replication of the pilot projects. Cost recovery mechanisms for both pilots may
include the collection of fees for services provided by both pilots.
C. Participatory Approach
5.6    Throughout the preparation process, care has been taken to ensure strong local
ownership of the project. An initial preparation workshop held in September 1994, used
GTZ's "ZOPP" methodology, which stresses client participation and ownership. It is
designed to rationalize and systematize previous work, and to reach agreement on project
objectives and components. As a result of this workshop, the Lithuanian team acquired a
clearer understanding of what preparing a Bank-financed project implies on their part,
increasing their participation and involvement. In addition, the workshop helped to develop
project planning matrices (systematic tools for monitoring project preparation and
implementation) in which key project activities have been defined and implementation
schedules specified.
5.7    A follow-up workshop was held in September, 1995 which further strengthened
ownership and commitment through a review of all project objectives and assumptions,
working group development and ratification of project activity plans. The first draft of the
implementation and monitoring plan was also prepared during this workshop (in English and
Lithuanian). Representatives of key stakeholders' groups, including pensioners and the
Seimas, participated in selected workshop sessions.
D. Environmental Impact
5.8    Environmental category C ("No appreciable environmental impact") has been given
consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01, Annex E. The proposed project
is not expected to have a negative environmental impact.



33
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached Prior to Negotiations
6.1    Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted the following:
(a) a letter from the Minister of Finance to the World Bank confirming the
Government's request for a loan;
(b) a draft of the Operational Manual for Bank review, including equipment lists,
training plans, consultancy plans, and a civil works plan; implementation
arrangements between the MSSL and the municipalities and a management plan
for the community social service pilots; and a draft monitoring plan with
performance indicators and reporting requirements (para. 4.2, page 25);
(c) by-laws for the Policy Evaluation Fund (PEF) acceptable to the Bank, and a plan
acceptable to the Bank for implementing and funding the PEF (para. 1.15, page
5);
(d) an acceptable outline of the MSSL strategic plan approved by MSSL
management (para. 1. 14, page 5); and
(e) evidence that six implementation agreements were executed on behalf of the
Government and participating municipalities (para. 3.7, page 17).
B. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.2    During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a) on performance indicators for all components (para 4.6, page 27);
(b) on reporting requirements for the project (para 4.8, page 28);
(c) that the Government of Lithuania will find alternative financing, in the event that
proposed grant financing would not be confirmed (para. 3.6, page 17); and
(d) on the maximum amount, nature of items that will be eligible for retroactive
financing, and the effective date for retroactive financing (para. 3.21, page 22).



34
6.3    As conditions of loan effectiveness, the Government would cause:
(a) The Borrower will have in place a project expenditure management system with
MSSL acceptable to the Bank (para 3.27, page 24).
(b) The PCU will have been established within MSSL, with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and a project director and key staff whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank,
have been appointed (para. 4.4, page 27).
(c) The Borrower will have entered into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
the provision of project management advice to the PCU (para 4.4, page 27).
(d) The Borrower will have adopted an Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.2, page 25).
(e) A Project Implementation Agreement will have been executed on behalf of the
Ministry of Finance and MSSL on terns and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
for the purposes of the Project (para. 3.7, page 18).
C. Recommendation
6.4    Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of $3.70 million equivalent. The borrower would be the
Republic of Lithuania.



35
ANNEX A: Lithuania Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project Objectives and Monitoring Plan
Objective                       Input indicators         Output indicators      Outcome indicators           Impact indicators
Component 1: Social Policy Development                                                                                                           l
The development, implementation, monitoring    * Technical assistance and    * Annual strategic plan  * Percent of MSSL staff    * MSSL analysis and
and evaluation of the Government's social  training provided to develop  and partnerships at each    time devoted to core policy  development of social
policy agenda through improved resource use in   a strategic plan for the  level, adapted each year in  development tasks  policy at all stages
the MSSL and enhanced policy monitoring and    MSSL work organization,    light of prior year's  increases. Performance   (design, monitoring, and
evaluation mechanisms                      and to improve monitoring    achievements and new    indicator: Yearly         evaluation) is improved,
and evaluation of social  corporate objectives by   questionnaire on staff time   with viable policy
policy                    July 31. Performance      allocation -- goal is to  options clearly presented
a Funding provided to a   indicator: Over 80% of    increase this from the less  to outside agencies and
Policy Evaluation Fund    strategic plan targets --    than 50% in 1995 to over   the broader public; the
(PEF) to strengthen local  MSSL and municipal --    75% in 2000.              administration of social
research capacity through a   are implemented on    * Skills acquired result in  assistance policy at the
competitive tendering     schedule from 1998 on.    better policy analysis.   local level and
process for research      * Monitoring and          Performance indicator:    central/local
contracts                 evaluation program        100% of MSSL legislative   communication are
including training of    proposals to Seimas and   improved. Performance
MSSL staff and users in  Government have analysis  indicator: Interviews
applied social policy    of fiscal and social      with key stakeholders,
analysis (176 staff),    implications attached by  such as Seimas
dissemination of studies  2000.                    representatives and
financed by the PEF, and                           municipal heads, at mid-
publication of an annual                           term and final stages of
Social Report by the                               project.
MSSL from 1997 on.
Performance indicator:
Over 70% of MSSL staff
in the Income Guarantee
Department apply newly
acquired skills by 1998,
increasing to 100% by
2000.



36
Objective                    |      Input indicators       |    Output indicators    | Outcome indicators                  Impact indicators
Compoeat 2:- Commuinit Social Service Piko Projects
Establishment of a feasible, cost-effective      * Investment goods for the   * Three education centers   * By 1999, the recurrent    * Establishment of a
approach to social service delivery that is      design, civil works,          and three multi-service      costs per person served are   cost effective social
community based and responsive to local needs    renovation of three multi     centers are functional by    consistently lower than the   assistance system at the
service and three education    early 1998.                 recurrent costs per          community level tailored
centers (foreign financed)    * Mid-term evaluation of   institutionalized person in   to the needs of
* Local resources (in-kind    all centers by 12/31/99,     all pilots                   individuals who are
and cash) for recurrent and    and final evaluation        * By 1999, client surveys   vulnerable or at risk of
other costs                   including a plan for         at all pilots demonstrate    institutionalization
replication by 12/31/01.     satisfaction with services   (measured by a mid-term
by over 50% of clients       evaluation of the pilots at
end 1999, and a final
outcome evaluation by
-___________________         end   2001)



r
37
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
LITHUANIA SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX B: PLANNED PROCUREMENT PACKAGE AND SCHEDULE
Total    Procurement   Issuance of    Submission        Signing    Completion
Description of Package                   Cost (SM)    Method    Invitation to Bid    of Bids      of Contract  of Package
Civil Works
1.10 Mulft Services Center for Vilnius          0.48        NCB           Mar. 1997       May 1997     June 1997    Mar. 1998
1.20 Multi Services Center for Svencionys       0.12        NCB           Mar. 1997       May 1997     June 1997    Mar. 1998
1.30 Multi Services Center for Siauliai         0.17        NCB           Mar. 1997       May 1997     June 1997    Mar. 1998
1.40 Education Center in Anyksciai              0.06        NCB           Mar. 1997      May 1997      June 1997    Mar. 1998
1.50 Educabon Center in Moletai                 0.06        NCB           Mar. 1997       May 1997     June 1997    Mar 1998
1.60 Education Center in Utena                  0.07        NCB           Mar. 1997       May 1997     June 1997    Mar. 1998
Sub-Total:   0.96
Goods
2.10 Computer Equipment                         0.07         IS           Mar. 1997       Apr. 1997     May 1997    Jun. 1997
2.20 Special Equipment for Handicapped          0.25         IS           Mar. 1997       Apr. 1997     Jun. 1997    Jul. 1997
2.30 Office Equipment                           0.08         IS           July 1998      Aug. 1998     Aug. 1998    Sep. 1998
2.40 Facility Appliances & Supplies             0.11         IS           Aug. 1998       Sep. 1998     Oct 1998    Nov. 1998
2.50 Fumiture & Other Supplies                  0.22          IS          Feb. 1998      March 1998    Aprl 1998    June 1998
2.60 Vehicle for Vilnius                        0.03          IS          Nov. 1997       Dec. 1997   Jan - Feb 1998  May 1998
2.70 Vehicle for Svencionys (4)                 0.13         IS           Nov. 1997       Dec. 1997   Jan - Feb 1998  May 1998
2.80 Vehicle for Siauliai                       0.03         IS           Nov. 1997       Dec. 1997   Jan - Feb 1998  May 1998
2.90 Vehide for Anyksciai                       0.03         IS           Nov. 1997       Dec. 1997   Jan - Feb 1998  May 1998
2.10 Vehicle for Moletai (2)                    0.08         iS           Nov. 1997       Dec. 1997   Jan - Feb 1998  May 1998
2.11 Vehicle for Utena                          0.03         iS           Nov. 1997       Dec. 1997   Jan - Feb 1998  May 1998
Sub-Total:   1.04
Consulting Services
3.10 Improved Resource Use in MSSL              0.68         SL           Aug. 1997       Sep. 1997     Nov. 1997    Dec. 2002
3.20 Policy Monitoring, Eval. & Impl.           1.58         SL           Aug. 1997       Sep. 1997     Nov. 1997    Dec. 2002
3.30 Monitonng & Evaluation                     1 21         NBF          Aug. 1997       Sep. 1997     Nov. 1997    Dec. 2002
3.40 Project Management                         0.77         NBF          Aug. 1997       Sep. 1997     Nov. 1997    Dec. 2002
Sub-Total:   4.24
Training
4.10 Improved Resource Use in MSSL              0.29          SL          Aug. 1997       Sep. 1997     Nov. 1997    Dec. 2002
4.20 Policy Monitoring, Eval. & Impl.           0.24         SL           Jul. 1997       Aug. 1997     Sep. 1997    Dec.2002
4.30 Community Multi-Services Centers (a)       1.01         NBF          Aug. 1997       Sep. 1997     Nov. 1997    Dec.2002
4.40 Education Centers for Disabled Children (b)  0.48       NBF          Aug. 1997       Sep. 1997     Nov. 1997    Dec. 2002
4.50 Monitoring & Evaluaton,                    0.08         NBF          Aug. 1997       Sep. 1997     Nov. 1997    Dec.2002
4.60 Project Management                         0.04         NBF          Aug. 1997       Sep. 1997     Nov. 1997    Dec. 2002
Sub-Total:   2.14
Recurrent Expenditures                     3.93
Total Project Cost:   12.31
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding; IS = Intemational Shopping; SL = Short Listing; NBF = Non Bank Financing
(a) For Siauliai = SM.32, Svencionys = SM.32, and Vilnius = SM.37;
(b) For Utena = SM.16, Moletai = SM .16, and Anykscaai = SM.16.



38                                         ANNEX C
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
LITHUANIA SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX C: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Table 1: Loan Disbursement Schedule (US$ millions)
FY 1997    FY 1998      FY 1999      FY 2000      FY 2001
Annual       2.38        0.34         0.42         0.28         0.28
Cumulative    2.38       2.72         3.14         3.42         3.70
Table 2: Disbursement by Category (US $ millions)
Category                                  Amount   Disbursement Rate
1. Civil Works                            0.96      100% of foreign expenditure and
82% of local expenditure
2. Equipment, Vehicles and Supplies       1.04       100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex
factory) and 80% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
3. Consulting and Training Services       1.70      100% of foreign expenditures
Total                                     3.70
Note: Figures may not add due to rounding



Lithuania
Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(USS Million)
Social Policy
Development                 Community Social Services Pilot
Policy                     Education
Improved    Monitoring,                   Centers
Resource    Evaluation,    Community        for     Monitoring                           Physical
Use in        and        Muli-Service   Disabled      and        Project             Contingencies
the MSSL  Implementation     Centers      Children   Evaluation Management  Total       %     Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. CivilWorkts                                                   -           0.61        0.15           -           -    0.76       70     005
B. Fumiture & Other Supplies /a               0 04               -           0.08       0.02        0.00         0.03    0.18      7.0    0.01
C. Equipment
Office Equipment                               -               -           0.04       0.01           -        0.02     0.07      70      0.00
Computer Equipment                             -               -              -          -        0.06           -    0 06      10.0    0.01
Special Equipment /b                           -               -           0.17       0.04           -           -    020        7 0     0 01
Appliances                                     -               -           0,06       0.04           -           -    0.10       7.0    0.01
Subtotal Equlpment                               -               -           0.26       009          006         0 02    043       7.4    0.03
D Vehicles                                       -               -           0.16       0.10           -           -    0.26       7 0     002
E. Consulting and Related Services            0.64            1.43              -          -         1 06        0.72    3.84      2 0     0.09
F. Training                                   0.26            0.22           0.92       0.46        0.08         0.04     1.98      1 1    0.02
Total Investment Costs                          0.94             1.65           2.05       0.83        1.20        0 81     7.46      2.8    0.23
Ii. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries                             0.02               -            1.18       041            -           -     160       2.2    004
B. Operating Expenditures
Administrative and Operating Costs             -               -              -          -        0.02         0 10    0 12      64      0.01
Operating and Maintenance Costs of Building    -                           0 36       0.30           -           -    0.66       7.0     0 05
Supplies                                               -                   0.03       0.02        0.01        0 03     0 08      7.0    0.01
Meal Service Program                           -               -           0.07       0 16           -           -    0 23       7.0     0 02
Audit                                          -               -              -          -           -        0.08    0o08         -        -
Subtotal Operating Expenditures                  -               -           0.46       048          002         0.21     117      6.5    0.08
C. Other/c                                       -                            0.01      0.02            -        0.D     004       70     0.00
D. Repair and Maintenance
Repair & Maintenance of Equipment              -               -           0.11       0 07           -        000      019       7 0     0.01
Repair & Maintenance of Vehicles               -               -           0.21       0.05           -           -    025        7.0    0.02
Subtotal Repair and Maintenance                  -               -           0.32       0.12            -        0 00     0.44      7.0    0 03
Total Recurrent Costs                           0.02               -            1.97       1.03        0.02        021      3.25      4.5    0.14
Total Baseline Line Costs:   0.95            1.65            4.02       1.85        1.22        1.02    10.71      3.3    0.37
Physical Contingencies                        0.00               -           0.34       0.11        0 09         0.02    0.56        -        -
Price Contingencies                           0.07            0 17           0.42       0.20        0.09         0.09     1.05     3.2    0.03
Total Project Costs:   1.03            1.82           4.78       2.16         1.40        1.12   12.31       3.2    0.41                                                  >
Taxes                                            -       -               -                 -            -           -        -       -        -                                                z
Foreign Exchange                              0 64            0 81            1 45      0 62         1.20        0.61     5.33      2.5    0.15                                                 X
\a Include minor material supplies                                                                                                                                                              h
\b Rehabilitation equipment for handicapped adults & children
\c Includes office rent
File. Excomf.xls



Lithuania
Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - 8ase Costs
(USS Million)
Base Cost                       Foreign Exchange
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total        %      Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                              0.76            -        -            -    0.76
S. Fumiture & Other Supplies /a             0. 15    0.02    0.00              0.01    0.18         -         -
C. Equipment
Office Equipment                          0.07        -       -            -          0.07    100.0      0.07
Computer Equipment                        0.06        -       -        -        -    0.06     100.0      0.06
Special Equipment /b                      0 20        -       -        -        -    0.20     100.0      0.20
Appliances                                0.10                         -        -    0.10      61.4      0.06
Subtotal Equipment                          0.43                         -        -    0.43      91.2      0.39
D. Vehicles                  .              0.26                         -        -    0.26     100.0      0.26
E. Consulting and Related Services          0,97     0.81    0.91     0.43     0.73     3.84     66.0      2.54
F. Training                                 0.59     0.74    0.23     0.24     0.18     1.98     84.7      1.68
Total Investment Costs                        3.17     1 56     1.14    0.67     0.92     746      65.3      4.87
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries                           0.00     0.40    0.40     0.40     0.40     1.60
B. Operating Expenditures
Administrative and Operating Costs        0,02     0.02    0.02     0.02     0.02     0 12
Operating and Maintenance Costs of Building  -    0.17     0.17     0.17     0.17     0.66        -         -                                                            0
Supplies                                  0.01     0.02    0.02     0.02     0.02     0.08                                                                               (D
Meal Service Program                         -    0.06     0.06     0.06     0.06    0.23
Audit                                     0.02     0.02    0.02     0.02     0.02     0.08                  -
Subtotal Operating Expenditures             0.05     0.28    0.28     0.28     0.28     1.17
C. Other/c                                  0.00     0.01    0.01    0.01      0.01     0 04        -         -
D. Repair and Maintenance
Repair & Maintenance of Equipment            -    0.05     0.05     0.05     0.05     0.19
Repair & Maintenance of Vehicles             -    0.06     0.06     0.06     0.06     0.25
SubtotalRepairandMaintenance                   -    0.11      011     0.11     0.11     0.44
Total Recurrent Costs                         0.05     0.80     0.80    0.80     0.80     3.25
Total Baseline Costs:    3.22   2.36     1.94     1.47    1.72   10.70       45.5      4.87
Physical Contingencies                      0.33     0.08    0.05     0.04     0.06     0.56     38.0      0.21
Pnce Contingencies                          0.09     0.14    0.21     0.25     0.36     1.05     22.8      0.24
Total Project Costs:    3.63    2.58    2.20    1.76    2.14   12.31       43.2      5.33
0z
Taxes                                                                                                                                                                      X
Foreign Exchange                            2,07     1.29    0.89     0 41     0.66     5 33        -         -
0
\a Include minor material supplies
%b Rehabilitation equipment for handicapped adults & children
tc Includes office rent
File: Eayrb.xls



Lithuania
Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project
Project Components by Year - Base Costs
(US$ Million)
Base Cost
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
A. Social Policy Development
1. Improved Resource Use in the MSSL               0.28     0.20    0.26     0.11     0.11     0.95
2. Policy Monitoring, Evaluation, and Implementation  0.31  0.30    0.37     0.33     0.34     1.65
Subtotal Social Policy Development                   0.59     0.50    0.63     0.44     0.45     2.60
B. Community Social Services Pilot
1. Community Multi-Service Centers                 1.45    0.92     0.56     0.56     0.53    4.02
2. Education Centers for Disabled Children         0.58     0.41    0.29     0.29     0.27     1.85
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                       0.31     0.29    0.25     0.04     0.33     1.22
Subtotal Community Social Services Pilot             2.33     1.62     1.10    0.89     1.14     7.08
C. Project Management                                0.29     0.24    0.22     0.14     0.13     1.02
Total Baseline Costs:    3.22   2.36     1.94     1.47     1.72    10.70
Physical Contingencies                             0.33     0.08    0.05     0.04     0.06     0.56
Price Contingencies                                0.09     0.14    0.21     0.25     0.36     1.05
Total Project Costs:    3.63    2.58    2.20    1.76    2.14   12.31
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                   2.07     1.29    0.89     0.41     0.66     5.33
0
File: Comyrb.xls



Lithuania
Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
A. Social Policy Development
1. Improved Resource Use in the MSSL                   0.29     0.21     0.28    0.12     0.13    1.03
2. Policy Monitoring, Evaluation, and Implementation   0.31     0.32     0.41    0.38     0.40     1.82
Subtotal Social Policy Development                       0.60     0.53     0.68    0.50     0.54     2.86
B. Community Social Services Pilot
1. Community Multi-Service Centers                     1.72     1.02     0.66    0.69     0.69    4.78
2. Education Centers for Disabled Children             0.66     0.45     0.34    0.36     0.35    2.16
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                           0.34     0.32     0.28    0.05     0.41     1.40
Subtotal Community Social Services Pilot                 2.72     1.79     1.28    1.09     1.45     8.33
C. Project Management                                    0.31     0.26     0.24    0.16    0.16      1.12
Total Project Costs:    3.63    2.58    2.20    1.76    2.14   12.31
aQ z
CD X
Fhf
-I
File: Comyrt.xis



Lithuania
Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                             0.96       -        -       -        -    0.96
B. Fumiture & Other Supplies /a            0.18    0.02     0.00       -    0.02     0.22
C. Equipment
Office Equipment                         0.08       -        -       -        -    0.08
Computer Equipment                       0.07       -        -       -        -    0.07
Special Equipment /b                     0.25       -        -       -        -    0.25
Appliances                               0.12       -        -       -        -    0.12
Subtotal Equipment                         0.53       -        -       -        -    0.53
D. Vehicles                                0.29       -        -       -        -    0.29
E. Consulting and Related Services         1.00    0.87     1.01    0.49     0.87    4.24
F. Training                                0.61    0.79    0.25     0.28     0.22    2.15
Total InvestmentCosts                        3.58     1.68    1.26    0.77     1.10    8.39
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries                          0.00    0.44     0.46    0.49     0.51     1.90
B. Operating Expenditures
Administrative and Operating Costs       0.03     0.03    0.03     0.03    0.03     0.14
Operating and Maintenance Costs of Building  -    0.19    0.20    0.21     0.22     0.82
Supplies                                 0.01    0.02    0.02     0.02     0.03     0.10
Meal Service Program                        -    0.07     0.07    0.07     0.08    0.28
Audit                                    0.02     0.02    0.02     0.02    0.02     0.08
Subtotal Operating Expenditures            0.05    0.32     0.34    0.35     0.37     1.43
C. Other /c                                0.00    0.01     0.01    0.01     0.01    0.05
D. Repair and Maintenance
Repair & Maintenance of Equipment           -    0.05     0.06    0.06     0.06    0.23
Repair & Maintenance of Vehicles            -    0.07     0.08    0.08    0.08     0.31
Subtotal Repair and Maintenance               -    0.13    0.13     0.14     0.15     0.55
Total Recurrent Costs                    0.05    0.90    0.94     0.99     1.04    3.93
Total Project Costs:    3.63    2.58    2.20    1.76    2.14   12.31_
UQ
\a Include minor material supplies
\b Rehabilitation equipment for handicapped adults & children
\c Includes office rent
File: Eayrt.xls



Lithuania
Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project
Components by Financiers
(USS Million)
The Govemment
IBRD              Donors           Dutch GovL        of Lithuania     Municipalities         Total
Amount       %     Amount        %     Amount    %       Amount    %      Amount        %     Amount    %
A. Social Policy Development
1. Improved Resource Use in the MSSL            1.01       98.2                            -        -    0.02       1.8       -          -    1.03       8.4
2. Policy Monitoring, Evaluation, and Implementati  0.60    33.0       -           -    0.85     46.5    0.37      20.5       -          -    1.82      14.8
Subtotal Social Policy Development                  1.61      56.5        -          -    0.85      29.7    0.39      13.7       -          -    2.86      23.2
B. Community Social Services Pilot
1. Community Multi-Service Centers              1.37       26.8    1.01        21.2        -        -        -       -    2.39        50.1    4.78      38.8
2. Education Centers for Disabled Children      0.44       22.2    0.48        22.4        -        -        -        -    1.24       57.4    2.16      17.5
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                    0.08        6.1    1.29        92.3        -        -        -       -    0.02         1.4    1.40      11.4
Subtotal Community Social Services Pilot           1.90       22.7    2.78        33.4        -        -        -        -    3.65       43.8    8.33      67.7
C. Project Management                              0.19        17.0    0.66       58.7        -        -    0.27      24.3       -          -    1.12       9.1
Total Disbursement:     3.70       30.1    3.44        28.0    0.85      6.9    0.67       5.4    3.65        29.7   12.31   100.0
>
aq z
0
File: Comfin.xIs



Lithuania
Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(USS Million)
The Government                                                Local
IBRD            Donors          Dutch Govt        of Lithuania     Municipalities        Total         For.   (Excl.
Amount    %      Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %        Exch.   Taxes)
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                               0.96    100.0        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -    0.96       7.8        -    0.96
B. Furnture & Other Supplies la              0.22    100.0        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -    0.22       1.8        -    0.22
C. Equipment
Office Equipment                           0.08    100.0        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -    0.08       0.7    0.08         -
Computer Equipment                         0.07    100.0        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -    0.07       0.6    0.07
Special Equipment /b                       0.25    100.0        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -    0.25       2.0    0.25         -
Appliances                                 0.12    100.0        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -    0.12       1.0     0.07     0.05
Subtotal Equipment                           0.53    100.0        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -    0.53       4.3    0.48      0.05
D. Vehicles                                  0.29    100.0        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -    0.29       2.4    0.29         -
E. Consulting and Related Services           1.33     31.3     1.84     43.3    0.68      16.0    0.40      9.3        -        -    4.24      34.5    2.75      1.49
F. Training                                  0.37     17.3    1.61      74.8    0.17       7.9        -       -        -        -    2.15      17.4    1.80      0.35
Total Investment Costs                         3.70     44.1     3.44     41.1     0.85     10.1    0.40       4.7       -        -    8.39      68.1     5.33     3.06     4>
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries                               -        -        -        -        -        -    0.02       1.0    1.88     99.0    1.90      15.4        -    1.90
B. Operating Expenditures
Administrative and Operating Costs            -        -        -        -        -        -    0.12      87.5    0.02     12.5    0.14       1.1        -    0.14
Operating and Maintenance Costs of Building   -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -    0.82    100.0    0.82       6 7        -    0.82
Supplies                                      -        -        -        -        -        -    0.04     35.0    0.07      65.0    0.10       0.8        -    0.10
Meal Service Program                          -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -    0.28    100.0    0.28        2.3        -    0.28
Audit                                         -        -        -        -        -        -    0.08    100.0        -        -    0.08       0.7        -    0.08
Subtotal Operating Expenditures                 -        -        -        -        -        -    0.24      16.9    1.19     83.1     1.43     11.6        -    1.43
C. Other/c                                      -        -        -        -        -        -        -     10.3    0.04     89.7    0.05       0.4        -    0.05
D. Repair and Maintenance
Repair & Maintenance of Equipment             -        -        -        -        -        -        -     2.1    0.23      97.9    0.23       1.9        -    0.23
Repair & Maintenance of Vehicles              -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -    0.31    100.0    0.31        2.5        -    0.31
Subtotal Repair and Maintenance                 -        -        -        -        -        -        -      0.9    0.54     99.1     0.55      4.4        -    0.55
Total Recurrent Costs                             -        -        -        -        -        -     0.27      6.9    3.65     93.1     3.93     31.9        -     3.93   e
Total Disbursement:    3.70     30.1    3.44     28.0    0.85       6.9    0.67       5.4    3.65      29.7   12.31    100.0    5.33    6.99        Z
\a Include minor materal supplies                                                                                                                                          o
\b Rehabilitation equipment for handicapped adults & children
\c Indudes office rent
File: Expfin.xls



46                                                 ANNEX
Page 1 of
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
LITHUANIA SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX E: SUPERVISION PLAN
Date              Activity       Skill Requirements                      Staff Input
May, 1997         Project        Task manager                            8 staff weeks
launch         Implementation specialist              (sw)
Community social services specialist
September,        First          Task manager                            5 sw
1997              supervision    Implementation specialist
mission
December, 1997   Second          Task manager                            5 sw
supervision    Implementation specialist
mission        Community social services specialist
June, 1998        Third          Tas k manager                           9 sW
supervision    Implementation specialist
mission
December, 1998   Fourth          Task manager                            9 SW
supervision    Implementation specialist
mission
June, 1999        Mid-term       Task manager                            6 sw
review         Implementation specialist
mission        Community social services specialist
December, 1999   Fifth           Task manager                            6 sw
supervision    Implementation specialist
mission
June, 2000        Sixth          Task manager                            6 sw
supervision    Implementation specialist
mission        Community social services specialist
December, 2000   Seventh         Task manager                            6 sw
supervision    Implementation specialist
mission
June, 2001        Project close   Task manager                           6 sw
mission        Implementation specialist
Community social services specialist



47                                           ANNEX F
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
LITHUANIA SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX F: CONTENTS OF OPERATIONAL MANUAL
Implementation Plan
a. List of activities
b. Technical assistance plans
c. Training plans
d. Equipment plans
e. Civil works plans
f. Project Management Matrix
g. Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
Terms of reference for each component
Pilot project proposals and implementation agreements between the municipalities and the Ministry of Labor and
-ial Security
Detailed cost tables
Project account formats
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Project Implementation Agreements (MOF, MSSL)
Policy Evaluation Fund procedures



48
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
LITHUANIA SOCIAL POLICY AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX G: DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Working Paper #1: Policy Development Component
Community Social Service Pilots Component, September, 1995
2.    Working Paper #2: Project Management Component, September, 1995
3.    Policy Note: Interconnections of Cash and Non-cash Assistance
4.    Pilot Center Cost-Benefit Analysis
5.    Project operational manual



CHART 1: Orgaizatkn of  lith  itbhanan Mrishy of Social Security and Labr (1ESIL)
Mnse of Social Security and Labtr 
Personnel Division   AcuiTiegDivision!    Scdrofte                 Secretary of the      Secretay of fth         Division of           Division of            Division of           Cnue
. NMSSL for Labor    MSSL for Incnri        MSSL for Social         Infonrnation and      lIternational        Adrrinistration          Division
LL:                   :       Guarantee                Care              I iblic Rdlation        Relations
Eh aoyrrt             Pension ard     .    Social Care
Division            Allowarres              Division
_      Division
Migration              Social               Disabled
Division             Indicators              Affairs
*  Division       *      Dvso
.         PRenuaration            Fanily                Social
i          Division             Assistance            Assistance
Division              Division
Woukirt            State lerros      '    Institute of
Conlitions             Division             Labor and
_     Division                                     Social
Affairs
Legal C ro       ,       SoDra                Medical
of Labor       i  (Social Imurane           Exqrise
Relations          Adisinistration)       Connissiors
Division
State Labor
Inspection
AtIt Vocat.                                            MSSL  Line of Subordination                                |
TrasnisE and
t C(xisding
Outside Agency Linkage    - - -
|Labor
IExeoge






IBRD 27884B
LITHUANIA
SOCIAL POLICY AND
COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICE                                                                                                                                               L A TV I A
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMMUNITY SOCIAL SERVICE FILOT PROJECTS                                                                                   .......
A     M.Ifi-Se,-a C.nt.,, en, he Eld.rly,                    Baltic                                      ,    "-             rAURA                 ".I,-
F-1-r,Il,euir Clr,dd-, and Ir, D,,.b1ed                                                        -     SCUODAS                              .
Ed-foion Ce-r- For D-sbied Chiler-                      Seo                                        .~                                          -'.                                         '*ee
PAI NG                             TL- ,
,0 ~~~~~~~~~~~AVA 5                                                RK&J 
KRErm                                            ilAULIAIIAF 
o    Snlenrd Cirt-                                                                         e.PUO                                                        A                                           KU(I
o Dridnn C.pirale                                                            KIAPEDAQa      0
* Rexio Copirol                                                                            GARGZOAI                  I                                .0
e    Now-on1 Cep,t1lANVEY
---Dierrit Boundaries
ReiN- Boudaries                                                                                                                                                                                     d6J V,
-    dILUTE  ~~~~~~~~                RASEI~~~~NIAI
COUNTRY INFORMATION:                                                               <rn.*'
Total lend creaI............6,4,46,700 lo                                                                                                                                                                              tIRAR
Total Populotion .............3,756,000
Total Working Age Population ..2,108,000
Total Lo6or Force.........       1,891,000                                                                                                                                          KAUNAS   N      csBOr
Population 60.s/Popualtion 20-59.30.3                                                  R  U   S  S  I A   N
Life Expectancy at Birth (yecsrs .......71 1                                        .* ,AVILNIUS 
SWEDN~~~~  ~~    FINI7n15.n,u50   .7    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~F   ED-                   E        A     . .I     . N                                                     -,KA           * q  PRINA
,,~   no         -~q~           5RDEFINLANP                                      LAN
LATVIA  -                                                                                             I''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ~ ~ A4
ESOI   U5AN0                              2          0I       n         O        FOkrrn
LITHUANIA                           ~~     ~~~    ~~~0 10  20  30  00      50      MaFlI.L
t         r                                              ue.,r.n,rn e  an  u, ..a,ua Iar-k
POLAND               .Oanan,eua.b,e.,n,
DECEMaBER Inns









IMHAGING
Report No:         15376 LT
Type: SAR



