Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4135 LT
Loan Agreement
(Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 1, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4135 LT 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 1, 1997, between Republic of Lithuania (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from other donor sources a grant or 
grants (the Additional Grants) in an amount equivalent to $4.29 million to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth in an 
agreement or agreements (the Additional Grant Agreements) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and additional donors.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is  prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
“(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which 
any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the  provisions of 
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of 
Agreement.”
(d)
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) 
at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received 
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Implementation Agreement” means each agreement referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement dated November 14, 1996, entered into by the Borrower, 
through MSSL (as defined below), and a Participating Municipality (as defined below) 
for the purposes of carrying out such part of Part B of the Project as shall be 
carried out in its municipality, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to such agreement and 
which are collectively referred to as “Implementation Agreements”;
(b)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(c)
“MSSL” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Social Security and Labor;
(d)
“Operational Manual” means a manual setting out the organization and 
responsibilities for implementation of the Project referred to in Section 7.01 (e) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
“Participating Municipality” means each of the municipalities of Vilnius, 
Svencionys, Siauliai, Anyksciai, Moletai and Utena and which are collectively referred 
to as “Participating Municipalities”;
Page  3
(f)
“PEF” means the Policy Evaluation Fund referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit to be established within MSSL 
and referred to in Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 
18, 1996, and November 19, 1996, between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three million seven hundred 
thousand dollars ($3,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and 
other charges on the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposit into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 1, 2002, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the 
Page  4
date immediately preceding each date specified in Section 
2.06 
of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period 
in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the 
Bank drawn 
down after June 30, 1982, excluding such 
borrowings or 
portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to 
fund: (A) the Bank’s 
investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 
1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six 
months of a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
“(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal 
to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On 
each of the dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal 
amount outstanding 
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates 
applicable 
during such Interest Period.”
“(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in 
respect of such Quarter.”
“(c)
(iii)  ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i) 
shall carry out Parts A, B (3) and C of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial and administrative practices, and 
shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other 
resources required for the Project; and
(ii) 
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower (A) 
shall 
cause each Participating Municipality to carry out 
its respective part 
of Part B of the Project and to perform 
all its obligations under 
the Implementation Agreement to 
which it is a party; and (B) shall take 
or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable and the Participating Municipalities 
to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance;
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
Page  5
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c)
For the purposes of Parts B(1) and (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall 
enter into Implementation Agreements with the Participating Municipalities under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank; and
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreements 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and shall be carried out by the PCU.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each of the Borrower’s fiscal years audited, in accordance 
with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information con\1fcerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause each Participating Municipality:
(a)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(b)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property forming part of the facilities provided under the Project, and from 
time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, 
all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and administrative practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Participating Municipality shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Implementation Agreement to which it is a party;
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable  
that a Participating Municipality will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Implementation Agreement to which it is a party;
(c)
The Additional Grants shall have failed to become effective by December 
31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds 
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its 
obligations under the agreement referred 
to in paragraph g (i) (A) 
of this Section; and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions 
Page  7
consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) (subject to the proviso thereto), 
and (d) (i) (B) (subject to the proviso of sub-paragraph (d) (ii)) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
a project implementation agreement has been executed on behalf of MOF and 
MSSL on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes of the Project;
(b)
the Project Coordination Unit has been established within MSSL, with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and a project director and key 
staff whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the 
Bank, have been appointed;
(c)
the Borrower has adopted an Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower has established a project expenditure management system 
within MSSL satisfactory to the Bank;  and
(e)
the Borrower has entered into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for 
the provision of project management advice to the PCU.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sermuksniu 6
2600 Vilnius
Lithuania
Telex:
       261252 FIMA SU
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  8
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI),
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Warsaw, Republic of Poland as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
By /s/ Antanas Valionis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
550,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
830,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Consultants’
services and training
(a)
for Parts A(1),
975,000
100%
Page  9
A(2), B and C
(b)  for Part A(2)(b)
375,000
100%
(4)
Refunding of
699,300
Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-
suant to Section
tion Advance
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
270,700
________
TOTAL
     3,700,000
     =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
any payments made for expenditures under Category 3(b) unless the PEF has 
been established; and
(b)
any payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$350,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after November 18, 1996.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for goods and works under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent; and (ii) for services under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent for the employment of consulting firms and under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent for the employment of individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to provide social security to the population 
of the Borrower at an affordable cost through institutional development activities to 
improve: (i) the capacity of the Borrower to analyze social policy; and (ii) community 
social care services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:  Social Policy Development
(1)
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to (i) develop, 
implement, monitor and evaluate a strategic plan for the operations of MSSL and (ii) 
to improve MSSL’s personnel management and training program; and 
(2)
Provision of: (a) technical assistance and training to assist MSSL to monitor 
and evaluate social policy through the preparation and publication of an annual social 
report and provision of training in social policy analysis, and (b) technical 
assistance to the Policy Evaluation Fund (PEF) within MSSL to strengthen local 
research capacity.
Page  10
Part B:  Community Social Service Pilot
(1)
Rehabilitation of buildings and provision of goods, technical assistance and 
training for the establishment and operation of three (3) social service centers in 
each of the cities of Vilnius, Siauliai and Svencionys serving the elderly, families 
with children and the disabled.
(2)
Rehabilitation of buildings and provision of goods, technical assistance and 
training for the establishment and operation of three (3) education centers for 
disabled children in each of the cities of Anyksciai, Moletai and Utena.
(3)
Provision of goods, including computer equipment, technical assistance and 
training for the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of Parts B (1) and 
(2) of the Project.
Part C:  Project Management
Provision of equipment, technical assistance and training to assist the PCU in 
Project implementation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 1, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 2002
through November 15, 2013
155,000
On May 15, 2014
135,000
________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of  the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 
3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Page  11
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (ex-pressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable to the 
Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Methods
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $860,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $740,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
3.
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (i) the first two contracts awarded for works and (ii) contracts 
for goods and works in an amount equivalent to $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (c) single-source selection of consulting firms, (b) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (c) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordination Unit within MSSL, with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank including, without limitation, 
the carrying out of procurement activities for all parts of the Project, and with a 
project director and key staff whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
are acceptable to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall adopt and apply procedures contained in an Operational Manual 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting out: (i) an implementation plan for the Project, 
including, without limitation, performance indicators for the Project; (ii) the 
organization, functions and responsibilities of the PCU; (iii) the format of reports 
and administrative steps to be followed in Project implementation and monitoring; and 
(iv) the responsibilities of each entity or agency involved in Project implementation 
Page  13
and monitoring.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain the Policy Evaluation Fund (PEF) with the functions and 
responsibilities described in the Operational Manual and shall not amend the by-laws 
of the PEF so as to affect materially and adversely the objectives of the Project 
without the approval of the Bank; and
(b)
ensure that the national budget for each of the financial years 1997 and 
1998 provides for an adequate allocation to the PEF.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank by March 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the mater.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $350,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
Page  14
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
Page  15
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
