Page  1
GRANT NUMBER H180-0-GUA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Water Sector Consolidation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
GUYANA WATER INCORPORATED 
 
Dated October 28, 2005 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H180-0-GUA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 28, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and GUYANA WATER 
INCORPORATED (GWI). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Grant Agreement of even date herewith 
between THE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA (the Recipient) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 7,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Grant 
Agreement, but only on condition that GWI agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;  
 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and 
GWI, the proceeds of the grant provided for under the Development Grant Agreement 
will be made available to GWI on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and 
 WHEREAS 
GWI
,
in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project  
 
Section 2.01. GWI declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
GWI shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Association’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) GWI shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, GWI shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and GWI, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with GWI on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. GWI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GWI shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.05. (a) GWI shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
GWI shall promptly inform the Association and the Recipient of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant, or the performance by GWI of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
Section 
2.06.  GWI shall ensure that, at all times during Project 
implementation, GWI’s ADT is adequately staffed in accordance with the functions, 
staffing and responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual, such staffing to include a 
Project manager.  
Section 2.07. 
(a) GWI shall issue, and abide by the terms of, an operational 
manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Association, setting forth rules and 
procedures for the carrying out of the Project, such manual to include
,
inter alia
:
(i) 
the environmental and social guidelines set forth in GWI’s 
Corporate Guidelines, dated 2005, and GWI’s Environmental 
Guidelines for Construction Projects, dated February 2005; 
(ii) 
the standard bidding documents for procurement of works, goods 
and consultants’ services; and 
(iii) 
the functions, staffing and responsibilities of the ADT. 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual may be amended by GWI from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Association.  In the case of any conflict between the terms 
of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
 
Section 2.08.  GWI shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association and the Recipient on a quarterly basis, starting four months 
after the Effective Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
Page  5
-
4
-
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association and the Recipient, not later than one month 
after the submission of the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, said report, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s and the Recipient’s views on the matter. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of GWI 
 
Section 3.01. GWI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, technical, and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. GWI shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, 
technical, engineering, financial and environmental practices. 
 
Section 3.03. GWI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
Section 3.04.  By no later than December 31, 2005, GWI shall update its 
customer data base and shall begin the installation of an appropriate customer accounting 
and billing system. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) GWI shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
Page  6
-
5
-
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) GWI 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income, expenses and cash flow and related statements) for each 
fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Association) 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal 
under the Project Preparation Advance was made, audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors,  in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) 
Without limitation upon GWI’s reporting obligations set out in 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement, GWI shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not 
covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of GWI 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
forty years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify GWI of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Page  8
-
7
-
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For GWI: 
 
Fort Street, 
 
Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of GWI, or by GWI 
on behalf of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Recipient’s Ministry of Housing and Water or such other person or 
persons as GWI shall designate in writing, and GWI shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By/s/ Caroline Anstey  
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
GUYANA WATER INCORPORATED 
 
By/s/ Deborah Yaw  
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other th
an consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding . 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method
.
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 6. 
Individual Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
Page  12
-
11 - 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the report on the qualifications and experience 
of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
