Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H180-0-GUA 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Water Sector Consolidation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 28, 2005
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H180-0-GUA 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 28, 2005, between the REPUBLIC OF GUYANA 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Guyana Water Incorporated (GWI) 
with the Recipient's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make the 
proceeds of the grant provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Grant) available to 
GWI, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and GWI 
(the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“ADT” means GWI’s asset development team which will be responsible 
for the implementation of the Project; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(c) 
“Management Contract” means the performance-based management 
contract entered into between GWI and Severn Trent Water International, dated 
November 20, 2002; 
(d) 
“Non-Revenue Water” means the relation between system input volume 
and billed consumption as measured by the following formula agreed upon in the 
Management Contract: (Volume of Water Supplied - Volume of Water Billed)/Volume 
of Water Supplied * 100;   
(e) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the Project Agreement;  
(f) 
“Procurement Plan” means the GWI’s procurement plan, dated May 18, 
2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.02 of the Project Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of 
Project implementation; 
(g) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
GWI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(h) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on May 18, 2005 and on behalf of the Recipient on May 23, 
2005; 
(i) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(j) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient and GWI pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to GWI. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 7,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Bank of Guyana (the Recipient
’s Central Bank), 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2010 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
Page  5
-
4
-
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in Dollars or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on January 1 
and July 1 in each year. 
Section 2.06. The permanent secretary of the Recipient
’s Ministry of Housing 
and Water, and any person whom he or she shall designate in writing, is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Grant 
Agreement, shall: 
(a) 
cause GWI to carry out the Project, pursuant to the Project Agreement, 
the Subsidiary Agreement, and the Operational Manual, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate technical, engineering, administrative, financial and 
environmental practices; 
(b) 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable GWI to carry 
out the Project in a timely manner; and 
(c) 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project by GWI. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 3.02. (a) The Recipient shall transfer the proceeds of the Grant to GWI, 
under a subsidiary agreement containing terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement 
or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.03. The Recipient and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by GWI 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.04. By not later than one year before the expiration of the Management 
Contract, the Recipient shall furnish to the Association a plan which shall include the 
post-
expiration implementation arrangements for GWI’s operation and management, and 
the measures to be taken by the Recipient and/or GWI to guarantee the sustainability of 
the investments done under the Project.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Association may have requested pursuant to  
paragraph (b) of this Section. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
GWI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
The Recipient and/or GWI shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that GWI will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraphs (a) 
or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement shall have been 
executed and delivered on behalf of the Recipient and GWI. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by GWI, 
and is legally binding upon GWI in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and GWI and is legally binding upon the Recipient and GWI in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date January 26, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Recipient: 
 
The Ministry of Finance 
 
Main and Urquhart Streets 
 
Georgetown, Guyana 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex: 
 
MINFIN   3038 
   
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF
 
GUYANA 
 
By/s/ Deborah Yaw 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By/s/ Caroline Anstey 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed  
(1) 
Goods, except those on    
800,000 
90% 
 
Category (6) below 
 
(2) 
Works, except those on 
5,270,000 
90% 
 
Category (6) below 
 
(3) Co
nsultants’ Services 
470,000 
85% of local 
 
expenditures for services 
 
of
consultants domiciled 
 
within the territory of  
 
the Recipient, and 
 
100%
of foreign 
 
expenditures for 
 
services of other 
 
consultants  
 
(4) Training 
20,000 
90% 
 
(5) Operating 
Costs 
50,000 
90% 
 
(6) 
Works and Goods for  
530,000 
100% 
 
Part D of the Project 
 
 
 
 
(7) 
Refunding of Project 
360,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL 7,500,000 
 
=======  
Page  13
-
12
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the terms: 
 (a) 
"Training" 
means
 expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) based on an semi annual budget previously approved by the Bank, incurred by 
the Recipient to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and 
trainers (if applicable), training registration fees and rental of training facilities (including 
logistics arrangements of meetings/workshops/seminars for the provision of training) and 
training equipment under the Project; and 
(b) 
“Operating Costs" means costs required for Project preparation including 
consumable materials and supplies, communications, mass media, and printing services, 
and vehicle rental, operation and maintenance, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Recipient's civil service.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) of the table on paragraph 1 above, unless the 
Recipient has furnished to the Association an Operational Manual satisfactory to the 
Association. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure 
under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient, including for
 expenditures 
made under contracts not subject to the Association’s Prior Review pursuant to Section 
IV of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the provision of water services in 
the territory of the Recipient; and (ii) support the Recipient
’s water sector modernization 
process. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Water Supply Infrastructure
Carry out of construction and rehabilitation of water facilities of the Recipient’s: 
(i) Anna Regina area; (ii) Parika area; and (iii) Rosignol area, through, 
inter alia
:
1. 
the upgrade of raw water source works to secure supplies from the groundwater 
aquifer; 
2. 
the construction of water treatment facilities for the reduction of iron content in 
the water delivered into the Recipient’s water supply systems; 
3. 
the upgrade of the water transmission system to enable continuous supply  to 
customers in accordance with the targets set forth in the Management Contract; 
4. 
 the rehabilitation of the water distribution systems to achieve Non-Revenue 
Water levels in accordance with the targets set forth in the Management Contract; and 
5. 
the purchase of spare parts for mechanical and electrical equipment.  
Part B
:
Design, Project Management and Supervision
Strengthen ADT’s capacity to design, execute, supervise, and monitor the 
Project, through the provision of technical assistance and equipment. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthen GWI’s capacity to improve its management, operational efficiency 
and financial viability, through the provision of technical assistance and training. 
Part D
:
Emergency Component
Carry out the rehabilitation of the Recipient’s water treatment plants, pumping 
stations and distribution systems, including water and sewerage, which were damaged by 
the floods that affected the Recipient’s territory in January 2005. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2009. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR1,500,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  17
-
16
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Modification to the General Conditions 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 (a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. Application of General Conditions. 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject to any 
modifications set forth in such agreement.”  
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
 
which the Grant is made.” 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial Payment”. 
Page  20
-
19
-
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under the 
Development Grant Agreement”. 
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02. Currencies in which Payments are to be made. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it under the 
Development Grant Agreement in the currency specified in such agreement or in 
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated 
or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section. 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(b) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03. Amount of the Grant. 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn.” 
 
(c) 
Section 4.06 (b) is modified to read as follows: 
“(b) 
All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
7. 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes. 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Grant Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of, the Recipient on the goods or services to be financed under the 
Page  21
-
20
-
Grant, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of 
such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits and grants. To that end, if the 
Association shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or 
in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the Recipient, 
adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such 
item in the Development Grant Agreement as required to be consistent with such 
policy of the Association.” 
8. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
“(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing. 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
9. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“(a) 
All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and free 
from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
10. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05. Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development 
Grant Agreement.”
 
