Page  1
1
GUYANA 
WATER SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
Report No.:  AB804 
Project Name 
GY Water Sector Consolidation Project 
Region 
Latin America and Caribbean 
Sector 
Water supply (100%) 
Project ID 
P088030 
Borrower(s) 
Government of the Republic of Guyana 
Implementing Agency 
Guyana Water Inc. (GWI) 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD  
Date PID Prepared 
March 7, 2005 and updated July 28, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 14,2005 
Date of Board Approval 
July 28, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
In 2000 Guyana embarked on a major and comprehensive reform program for the water and 
sanitation sector.  Reforms were initiated by the Government with the assistance of the donor 
community under the leadership of DfID and IDA, with the goal of providing sustainable 
universal access to safe and affordable water for the population of Guyana.  Reforms 
implemented to date have facilitated a complete reorganization of the water and sanitation sector 
around three key principles: (i) a modern, efficient and customer-oriented utility; (ii) long-term 
financial sustainability; and (iii) a governance and institutional framework characterized by 
independent regulatory functions and a clear division of responsibilities. 
 
Key achievements of the reform program to date include: (i) a modern legal, regulatory and 
institutional framework under the Water and Sewerage Act of 2002; (ii) the creation of Guyana 
Water Inc (GWI) in May 2002 through the merger of the two water utilities, GS&WC and 
GUYWA; (iii) the award of a performance-based management contract (MC) for five years to an 
international operator, which started operations in January 2003; and (iv) the elaboration of a ten 
year investment program.  Severn Trent Water International (STWI) is currently managing GWI 
and working to implement the investment program that will deliver the coverage and quality 
targets outlined in the MC. However, despite the significant achievements of the Government’s 
reforms to date, the full benefits of the measures undertaken and the efficiency gains derived 
from the management contract will take some time to be achieved. The sector still faces major 
challenges towards improving performance: 
 
Financial Sustainability:
A
key goal for the reform process is to achieve financial sustainability 
in the medium-term through the implementation of a tariff review mechanism to set tariffs at cost 
recovery levels and eliminate operating subsidies from the Government.  A study undertaken by 
KPMG in 2000 concluded that this would be achievable by 2004. However, in 2004 the utility 
Page  2
2
was still far from achieving recovery of O&M costs with annual
1
operating income of 
US$ 10.6 
million
 and operating expenses 
–
excluding depreciation – of 
US$ 11.6 million
.
The 
Government has therefore had to extend the operating subsidies, transferring to GWI over 
US$ 
7.5 million
 in the last 2 years.  From a cash-flow perspective, the current gap between collected 
revenues and operating payments is approximately 
US$ 4.7 million
.
The achievement of cost 
recovery is been negatively affected by a combination of the following: 
 
ƒ\03
Electricity costs
:
The significant rise in electricity prices since 2003 (
approximately 
16%
)
–
which had not been factored into the KPMG work - has had an impact of 
approximately 
US$ 1 million 
extra cost.
 
Electricity costs accounted in 2004 for around 
65% 
of GWI’s total operating expenditures.  Total revenue collected in 2004 – around 
US$ 6.3 
million
 – was not enough to pay the electricity bill of 
US$ 7.5 million. 
 The current cost of 
electricity in Guyana of 
US$ 0.25/kWh
 is double the typical world averages and it 
constitutes a real challenge for further costs savings to transpire in improvements of the 
financial situation of GWI.   
 
ƒ\03
Insufficient tariff levels
:
After a March 2003 increase of around 40%, there has been no 
increase in tariff levels during 2004 and 2005 due to Government affordability and social 
acceptability concerns and the desire to accompany tariff adjustments with significant 
improvements in the levels of service.  As a result, the second 40% part of the 2-stage 80% 
tariff increase recommended by KPMG in 2002 was never implemented, which has had an 
impact of around
 
US$2.5 million in reduced revenues.
 
ƒ\03
Modest revenue growth: 
In the first year of the MC, GWI has shown a slower than 
anticipated rate of improvement in billings and collections due to an inherited malfunctioning 
billing system, low metering rates caused by delays in funding, household rateable value 
problems and low sewerage tariffs. These factors have prevented all the revenues projected 
by KMPG from being realized – the estimated difference being around 
US$ 0.5 million. 
 
A
combined plan to increase GWI revenues and reduce costs is being implemented.  First
,
the 
Government has committed to GWI preparing a Tariff & Revenue Study for submission to the 
Public Utilities Commission (PUC)
2
in 2005 which is now underway.  The study will develop a 
series of options combining targeted subsidies to the sector and review of current tariff structure 
for consideration of the PUC and the Government. The objective is to enable coverage of GWI’s 
operations & maintenance costs by end 2005, and operations, maintenance & depreciation costs 
by end 2006.  If as a result billings increase by 30%, income would rise by some 
US$ 1.8 million 
at current collection rates.  Second
,
collection performance is expected to improve in line with 
the achievement of the contract target. Preliminary figures on collection rates for 2004 seem to 
indicate that the 2004 target of 76% would have been met.  In moving towards the 2007 target of 
90% collection rate, an improvement of about 5% per year is required. In real terms this means 
an increased collection of about 
US$ 0.5 million/year
3
.
Third
,
the reduction in non-revenue 
1
These figures are round figures estimated for the year 2004 based on the Final Revised Strategic Plan for GWI dated May 2005, 
available in the Project Files.  
2
The commencement of this study was a requirement for effectiveness of the IDB loan.  
3
This represents only about 11% of the current shortfall and the balance will have to be found from other sources. However, 
increased collections as it approaches 90% will be an increasingly important component of the solution to the cost recovery 
issue.  
Page  3
3
water figures by 10% is expected to save GWI 
US$ 1.5 million
 in 2005.  As NRW comes down 
in line with the contract targets very significant savings can be envisaged 
–
around 
US$ 3 
million
.
This is the key area to close the gap between revenue and costs.  However, it will 
require time and investment in the repair and rehabilitation of the distribution network. In the 
meantime, the Government will have to extend its commitments of transfers to the sector.  The 
analysis shows that the subsidies could be completely eliminated by the end of 2006 if a tariff 
restructuring takes place and the leakage reduction strategy and energy management plan are 
implemented. 
 
Low coverage rates and poor service levels:
The quality and coverage of water supply services in 
Guyana are poor.  Major problems with the safety, continuity and reliability of supply persist 
both along the coastal strip and in the severely under-serviced Hinterland region.  Source water 
treatment in some GWI areas is non-existent resulting in a high risk of bacteriological 
contamination.  Most parts of the serviced areas - both in Georgetown and outside the capital - 
experience low water pressure and intermittent supply.  In spite of an increase in coverage 
figures in recent years - with a near doubling of households connected to piped water between 
2000 and 2003
4
-
coverage levels remain deficient.  Approximately 45.1 percent of the 
population had access to treated water in 2003.  There is also a need to continue with ongoing 
improvements in the operations, management and levels of service.  At the end of 2004, 
continuity of acceptable service was estimated on a composite basis as 4.3 hours of service per 
day, non-revenue water was estimated at a 50% of total water production in 2004, and metering 
coverage was recorded at 24 percent.   
 
High investment needs and limited funding:
GWI, under STWI management, has developed a 
Ten Year Investment Program (TYDP) as part of the May 2005 GWI Strategic Plan.  The TYDP 
builds upon the original ten year investment program developed in 2000 by KPMG. The current 
TYDP reflects changes in the sequencing and content of sub-programs based on the strategic and 
technical recommendations of STWI, availability of donor financing for capital investment, the 
changing operational context, available assumptions and predictions and most recent knowledge 
of GWI. 
 
The GWI TYDP outlines a comprehensive investment program required to substantially improve 
access to safe and reliable water.  GWI’s planned investment program (2005-2014)
5
amounts to 
over US$ 170 million, of which US$ 52 million have been secured from the international 
community. In the immediate 3-year period 2005-2007, the investment program is estimated at 
US$ 74 million of which the US$ 44 million has been secured when including this proposed IDA 
Grant.  GWI is currently engaged with other donors to secure a further US$ 18 million in 
investments during this period leaving an estimated financing gap of US$ 11 million, or 
approximately 15% of the medium-term investment program. 
 
Ensuring continued and consistent funding for the capital expenditure program and working 
capital will be essential for GWI to enhance operational efficiency and meet License targets.  
Despite initial delays in accessing donor resources, progress has been made.  The IDB 
4
The distribution system has expanded by 13% over the same period. Source: 
Guyana Poverty Reduction Strategy Progress 
Report 2004. 
5
Currently under discussion with the Government 
Page  4
4
Georgetown Program II has begun disbursements and GWI and the Government are exploring 
the possibility of obtaining further investment resources from the global EU Water Facility and 
the CDB as well as through bilateral arrangements.     
 
Management Contract:
The 5-year performance-based Management Contract (MC) for GWI 
initiated in January 2003 is a centerpiece of the Government’s sector strategy to improve service 
levels, increase efficiency and achieve financial sustainability.  Although GWI performance has 
been below targeted levels under the MC in 2004, considerable progress has been made against 
the performance targets for non-revenue water and collection efficiency, and there is now in 
place a well defined strategy to improve customer relation and commercial services and 
maximize revenues through improved billing and collections. The improvement in GWI’s 
performance has been slower than expected also due to: (i) mixed initial performance by the 
management contractor, in part due to perceived security problems during the first year of 
operations; and (ii) a need for improvement of the governance framework for GWI to establish 
clear division of responsibilities between the Board and GWI management – which has been 
addressed through the recent review of Board policies and procedures.  These issues were, in 
particular during the first year of the MC, a source of friction between the Government, GWI 
Board and the private operator.  
 
In December 2004, the Government invited STWI to hold a series of meeting under the theme 
“GWI- Moving Forward” to gain a better mutual understanding of contract issues.  The 
Government, the Board of GWI, STWI and the donor community participated in these 
discussions where the commitment of both the Government and the operator to making the MC a 
success was clearly stated. The main outcome was the signature of a memorandum of 
understanding with a concrete set of actions to be implemented during 2005 to deliver immediate 
improvements in the performance of GWI.  The agreed upon Action Plan focused on 10 key 
issues and was incorporated in a 
Roadmap to Success
 document which has been updated in 
April to reflect progress to date and outstanding actions.  The Roadmap provides an important 
and promising framework for collaboration in the sector amongst all stakeholders.  The Roadmap 
process has resulted in five principal achievements: 
 
•
Production of Revised Final Strategic Plan for GWI
6
,
outlining GWI’s corporate strategy for 
2005 to 2008, and within that, setting out the path to financial sustainability and improved 
levels of service. The Strategic Plan sets out GWI’s vision, the business objectives and 
outlines the actions, resources, finance and planning actions required to achieve GWI 
strategic goals and objectives for 2005-2008. 
ƒ\03
Appointment of a new Managing Director for GWI with proven managerial, financial 
and operational capacity to lead GWI’s ambitious reform and investment program.  
ƒ\03
Development of an Asset Development Plan, setting out the company’s capital 
investment program, including all donor-funded programs.  
•
Identification of ways to assist the Managing Director of GWI to meet the financial and 
technical targets for the company. 
•
Review of Board policies and procedures to ensure that the Board can maximize its 
effectiveness, in line with the strategic targets of GWI. 
 
6
Available in Project Files 
Page  5
5
A
series of outstanding measures will be required to consolidate these advances in the ensuing 
months.  The Government anticipates that, with continuing commitment to agreements in the 
Roadmap, significant improvements in performance of the water sector will be possible within a 
six month period.   
 
Institutional and Regulatory Framework:
Considerable progress has already been made towards 
implementing key institutional and regulatory reforms associated with the program.  In the short-
term the Government will nonetheless need to focus attention on a few key pending institutional 
reform issues.  The Public Utilities Commission (PUC) established as an independent regulatory 
body for the sector requires capacity strengthening to perform its functions, and the Government 
is behind schedule in implementing the 2004 tariff review as specified in the reform program.   
The National Water Council is yet to be operational.  DfID is supporting a capacity building 
program for the PUC which is currently being implemented with Technical assistance from the 
consulting firm Castalia.  Castalia has been working with the PUC for the last year towards 
achieving a sustainable regulatory framework in Guyana and helping the PUC to become an 
independent and strong regulator. 
 
Based upon the success of the recently completed IDA-financed Water Supply and 
Rehabilitation Project, its impact on poverty alleviation, the need for further financing, and the 
effective dialogue IDA has had in sector policy in recent years, there is a unique opportunity for 
a
follow-up water investment operation that will support the Government in consolidating the 
reforms undertaken. The proposed IDA Grant would play an important role in helping Guyana 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals, while ensuring that the reforms undertaken to date 
are continued. In this respect, the proposed operation, although limited, is both timely and sound 
and its impact will be maximized through complementin
g
available funding from GWI´s 
internally generated resources, the Government, and from other donors, to achieve a financially 
sustainable sector for the long term. 
 
Emergency Component 
 
Beginning in late December 2004, unusually heavy rainfall in Guyana resulted in severe flooding 
within the coastal administrative regions of West Demerara/Essequibo Islands, 
Demerara/Mahaica, and Mahaica/West Berbice.  These areas comprise 75 percent of Guyana's 
population and include the capital city, Georgetown.  Flooding was severe in the onset and 
resulted from the saturation of upper watershed soils and the poor performance of the national 
drainage systems distributed within the coastal irrigation districts.  Serious flooding began on 
January 15 reaching its peak around January 17, corresponding with the January spring (lunar 
high) tide.  Rains continued until the first week of February 2005, causing floodwaters to reach a 
height of four to five feet in villages near the East Demerara conservancy.  As of January 25, the 
Government of Guyana’s Joint Operations Center (GOG/JOC) reported close to 200,000 
residents directly affected by the floods. 
 
Regarding the Water Sector, the flooding along the coast, between the Demerara and Mahaica 
rivers, has seriously inhibited GWI’s ability to supply potable water (approximately 164,000 
people affected) and to dispose of wastewater in the affected areas.  The principal water 
treatment plant in Georgetown is now operational, but due to breakdowns the plant is not run at 
Page  6
6
full efficiency.  The overall impact has been minimized due to an efficient response by GWI.  
Emergency arrangements to provide drinking water to the affected population were well 
managed and effective. In coordination with the military, drinking water in bags was effectively 
distributed to affected areas only accessible by boats. Tanks with safe water were set up in places 
accessible by road and a large team from GWI was sent out to the affected areas to monitor the 
distribution of water and assist the community.  
 
The floods have caused some damage to water distribution infrastructure in the affected areas on 
the East Coast, in particular to service connections 
–
of
which thousands are in need of 
replacement – water treatment plants and pumping stations.  The floods have also damaged the 
wastewater pumping stations that are required to enable GWI to provide wastewater disposal 
service to approximately 11,500 customers in Georgetown.  At present 15 of the 24 wastewater 
stations are in operation.  However, it should be noted that immediately following the main 
flooding event, only one of the 24 stations remained operational and emergency repairs using 
spare parts from stores have been undertaken to rectify this situation. Since then, further 
breakdowns have occurred, at a rate of 9 per month on average, and more than 50 repairs have 
been executed.  
 
The situation has exposed vulnerabilities in GWI’s emergency response capability.  Although on 
this occasion GWI’s response has been effective and well managed, it has had to rely upon the 
borrowing or hiring of tanks and equipment, particularly transport, from other public entities and 
the private sector. There is a need to strengthen GWI’s response capacity if the utility is to be as 
effective in future emergency events.   
 
Immediately after the flooding occurred, IDA responded by sending a team specialized in 
disaster management to conduct a preliminary needs assessment in February 2005. At the request 
of the Government of Guyana, IDA is responding to these events through the incorporation of an 
emergency recovery component to the proposed Water Sector Consolidation Project in the 
amount of 
US$ 1.1 million
.
2. Objectives 
 
The Project development objective is to support the achievement of sustainable universal access 
to safe and affordable water for the population of Guyana, especially the poor.  This Project will 
also help to consolidate the water sector modernization and reform process undertaken by the 
Government with support from IDA and other donors in recent years. Specifically, the Project 
will: 
 
ƒ\03
Provide access to treated water to over 48,000 people through the development of 
treatment facilities
7
in the coastal water supply systems in divisions 1, 2 and 4.  
ƒ\03
Improve levels of service to low and medium income housing schemes already connected 
to the service.   
7
The use of appropriate technology (aeration and filtration) will ensure an affordable investment expenditure for the population 
of Guyana 
Page  7
7
ƒ\03
Provide the technical assistance needed to enable the modernization and financial 
sustainability of GWI and allow for the sustainable development of water resources in 
Guyana.  
ƒ\03
Through the emergency component, provide funding to support recovery needs after the 
January 2005 floods.  
 
The Project will also contribute to the following three key higher-level objectives: 
 
Achievement of MDG and PRSP targets:
The Project will support the Government of Guyana in 
reaching the MDG goals and its Poverty Reduction Strategy targets by extending access to safe
8
water to 48,000 people. 
 
Health and environmental improvements:
The Project is expected to bring health benefits to 
over 48,000 people by a reduction in morbidity and mortality related to water quality through the 
proper treatment of drinking water and management of wastewater. Immediate health 
improvements (which would especially benefit children who are often particularly susceptible to 
water-borne diseases) would include reductions in gastrointestinal illnesses, cholera, typhoid and 
hepatitis, among others. 
 
Poverty Reduction:
The Project would positively impact poor households that are now boiling or 
purchasing water from vendors (amongst other coping strategies). The percentage of people in 
Guyana living below the poverty threshold is currently 33.1%.
9
The Project targets largely rural 
and peri-urban communities with a disproportionate number of poor residents.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Linkage to the PRSP, CAS and ongoing sector dialogue:
The Government’s Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Paper (PRSP) outlines a reform agenda stemming out of an extensive consultative 
process which involved discussions at the local, regional and national levels. The PRSP 
consultations identified increasing access to safe water and sanitation services to the poor and 
improving the institutional framework in the sector as key priorities.  Consequently, sector 
reform and the needed investments in infrastructure to support better services and increased 
access to safe water and sanitation were included as core goals in the PRSP seven pillar approach 
to reducing poverty. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) focused IDA’s assistance to 
Guyana for FY03 –FY05 on the implementation of the PRSP reform agenda through a series of 
planned Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), accompanied by a Public Sector Technical 
Assistance Credit (PSTAC).  
 
In 2000
,
the Government initiated a major and comprehensive reform program for the water and 
sanitation sector.  At the time of the preparation of the 2002 CAS, IDA was actively engaged in 
the reform process and policy dialogue through the restructuring of its Water Supply TA and 
Rehabilitation Project - Cr. 2559-GUA
10
 
and its participation as a member of the 
8
Relaxed WHO standard, the current national standard for Guyana 
9
PRSP Progress Report 2004 
10
 This Project was closed in March 2004. The ICR for this project was completed in September 2004 and has been 
rated as exemplary by OED.  The outcome of the Project was rated as satisfactory and the institutional development 
Page  8
8
Government/Donors Steering Group (now Water Thematic Group). In 2004, in conjunction with 
the sector policy support provided by IDA under the three planned PRSCs, the Government 
requested the resumption of investment support to fund its long term investment program to 
achieve universal and sustainable access to safe water for the population of Guyana. The 
proposed operation would support the consolidation of progress and reforms made to-date, 
contribute to fill in the existing funding gap to address sector needs and increase access to safe 
water for the poor. The proposed Grant will play an important role in helping Guyana achieve 
the Millennium Development Goals outlined in the PRSP.  In this respect, the proposed 
operation, although limited, is both timely and sound and its impact will be maximized through 
complementing available funding from GWI´s internally generated resources, the Government, 
and from other donors, to achieve a financially sustainable sector for the long term. 
 
IDA’s technical leadership:
IDA’s broad international experience in private sector participation 
in the water and sanitation sector and in the design of institutional regimes for infrastructure 
service provision will enable it to respond quickly to the Government’s need for advisory support 
to facilitate the successful development of the Management Contract.  
 
Response to the January 2005 Emergency:
Lastly, in the aftermath of the emergency situation, 
IDA responded to the Government’s request for IDA’s assistance by mobilizing a specialized 
team to conduct a preliminary needs assessment. Following this assessment, it was concluded 
that addressing the needs in the water sector through the proposed Project is the most timely and 
effective manner for IDA to support the Government in its reconstruction efforts.
 
The proposed 
operation is funded with IDA 14 resources and does not involve diversion of resources from 
other operations. 
 
4. Description 
 
The Project will support the Government’s Program through a Specific Investment Grant to be 
implemented by GWI.
11
 
The Grant will finance a capital investment component for the 
construction and rehabilitation of three water supply infrastructure subprojects, each within an 
operating division of GWI, and the corresponding design, project management and supervision 
activities.  The Project will also finance an institutional strengthening component and an 
emergency component to support reconstruction needs after the January 2005 floods.  
 
GWI will have overall technical responsibility for project implementation (including 
procurement).  Table 1 below summarizes the four components included in the overall Project: 
 
as substantial. The component for squatter areas has been considered particularly successful in the ICR.  This 
component, executed in coordination with DFID (which financed the design in coordination with IDA-financing of 
works), has brought piped water supply to approximately 20 squatter lots (26,000 people). This component also 
resulted in a change in Government policy reducing connections fees to dramatically improve the access to the 
services for poorer communities. In addition, the Project supported the rehabilitation of the Eccles and Bartica water 
systems and the start up of GWI´s operations. 
11
 Through its recently established Asset Development Team (ADT) 
Page  9
9
Table 1: Project Components and Financing Sources 
Components Indicative 
Costs 
(US$M) 
%
of 
Total 
IDA-
Financing 
(US$M) 
Counterpart 
Financing 
(US$M) 
1. Water Supply Infrastructure  
10.1 
82% 
9.1 
1.0 
2. Design, Project Management & Supervision 
0.9 
7% 
0.8 
0.1 
3. Institutional Strengthening  
0.3 
2% 
0.3 
0.03 
4. Emergency Component 
1.1 
9% 
1.1 
0.0 
Total project costs 
12.4 
100% 
11.3 
1.1 
Component 1: Water Supply Infrastructure
(US$ 10.1 million, including US$ 9.1 million of 
IDA financing). 
The component will finance the following three subprojects: 
 
ƒ
Anna Regina Area
12
 Water Supply System in Division 1 of GWI (Region 2) - 
(US$ 3.6 million, including US$ 3.3 million of IDA financing). 
 
ƒ
Parika Area
13
 Water Supply System in Division 2 of GWI (Region 3) (US$ 3.7 
million, including US$ 3.3 million of IDA financing).    
ƒ
Rosignol Area
14
 Water Supply System in Division 4 (Region 5) of GWI (US$ 2.8 
million, including US$ 2.5 million of IDA financing).   
 
In all three cases, the Project will finance the following infrastructure works: 
 
ƒ
Upgrading of raw water source works to secure supplies from the 
groundwater aquifer;  
ƒ
Installation of water treatment facilities for the reduction of iron content in 
the water delivered into the supply systems, thus enabling the effective operation of the 
associated disinfection systems and the delivery of safe water to customer beneficiaries;  
ƒ
Upgrading of the water transmission system to enable continuous supply 
to customers at minimum 10 psi (7m) pressure;  
ƒ
Rehabilitation of the distribution systems, with targeted pipeline and 
service connection replacement and installation of 100% customer metering; and  
ƒ
Purchase of necessary spare parts for mechanical and electrical equipment. 
 
Each of the three subprojects relate to predominantly peri-urban and rural areas of the coastal 
strip. A detailed feasibility study has been completed by GWI for each of these subprojects to 
ensure their soundness from an engineering and design standpoint and the least cost solution 
adopted among different alternative options. These feasibility studies can be found in the Project 
files. 
 
Sanitation Facilities:  
With regards to sanitation arrangements, the three subproject areas rely 
on on-site sanitation facilities 
–
pit latrines and septic tanks. On-site facilities are an appropriate 
means of sanitation in these less densely populated areas, if they are properly constructed, 
operated and maintained, and conclusions reached by the analytical work undertaken so far 
indicate that it would not be cost effective or affordable to put in full sewerage systems in these 
12
 Includes towns from Walton Hall to Dageraad.  
13
 Includes towns from St. Lawrence to De Kinderen.  
14
 Includes towns from Inverness to Shields Town.  
Page  10
10
areas.
15
 Existing data would confirm that there is no risk to the groundwater from the use of pit 
latrines and improvements to these would be the most cost effective way forward.
16
 Funding to 
carry out these improvements is contemplated under the line “Sanitation Improvements” of 
DfID’s overall sector investment program.  
 
Component 2: Design, Project Management, and Supervision
(US$ 0.9 million including US$ 
0.8 million of IDA financing): 
The component will finance staff, consultant services and 
equipment to strengthen the capacity of GWI and its Asset Development Team to execute, 
supervise and monitor the results of the Project.  Activities to be financed under this Component 
include: 
 
ƒ
Specialized consultants and staff to work on the Asset Development Team 
under the integrated management of GWI; 
ƒ
Detailed project design and construction supervision through independent 
supervision consultants; 
ƒ
Information technology equipment; 
ƒ
Technical assistance and training to the ADT and GWI for Project 
implementation, monitoring and financial management;  
ƒ
Other operating expenses for the ADT including office supplies, etc.; and 
ƒ
A
baseline and after- Project analysis will be carried out to measure 
improvements in levels of service, customer satisfaction, health and other benefits to be 
derived from the investments.  
 
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening Component
(US$ 0.30 million including US$ 0.27 
million of IDA financing): 
The component will finance a technical assistance architecture 
around the Management Contract to bring the needed specialized skills and expertise to support 
GWI and its Board to turn GWI into a modern and efficient utility.
17
 This component would 
finance activities to strengthen and bring the utility to reasonable levels of management, 
operational efficiency and financial viability, banking on the private operator’s experience to 
achieve these. Capacity building will be provided through targeted technical assistance by 
consultants hired by GWI for specific tasks not envisaged at the inception of the MC but which 
are very much needed for the effective transfer of know-how from the private operator to GWI 
and the efficient operation of the company (training for Board members and GWI staff, tariff 
studies, energy management specialists, IT specialists, etc.). Consulting firms or individual 
consultants will be hired by GWI to support the provision of these technical assistance inputs.  
Given the potential for energy savings in Guyana discussed in section A.1, this component also 
includes a provision for funding the eventual preparation and co-financing of an energy 
efficiency project for funding by the GEF.
18
 
Component 4: Emergency Component
(US$ 1.1 million, 100% IDA financed given the 
emergency nature of the intervention).  
In January 2005, flooding along the East Coast and 
15
 KMPG report and Atkins Investment Plan Review, 2000. 
16
 KPMG report, Annex 3. 
17
 This component will complement funds allocated under the MC and support tasks and activities not envisaged under the 
original terms of reference of the contract. 
18
 The preparation of a Project Concept Note (PCN) is currently underw
ay with funding from the President’s Contigency Funds. 
Subject to a successful PCN review and decision to include it in the GEF pipeline, project preparation would begin.  
Page  11
11
West Coast of Demerara and in Georgetown seriously affected GWI’s ability to supply potable 
water to approximately 164,000 affected consumers and to dispose of wastewater in affected 
areas.  Some of the water treatment plants, pumping stations (water and wastewater), and 
distribution systems were damaged and are in need of rehabilitation to recover to normal 
operation status.  Under this Component, the Project will also finance minor capital works 
targeted at the distribution systems and small equipment repairs and replacements, household 
connection replacements, and other minor investments.  
 
5. Financing 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Project will be implemented by GWI and coordinated through the utility’s recently 
established Asset Development Team (ADT).  The ADT assumes responsibility within GWI for 
coordinating the planning and implementation of capital projects supported through international 
assistance.  The ADT is integrated into GWI management structure with strong links to 
operational and financial management teams.  The ADT builds upon GWI’s recent successful 
performance in the implementation of capital investment programs and reflects a commitment 
within GWI and its Board to develop a more sustainable, integrated and operationally driven 
approach to capital investment.   
 
ADT Objectives
:
GWI’s strategic objective is to have the ADT function as a medium- and long-
term capital planning department within the utility with the ability to effectively match capital 
expenditure management with operational targets.  More specifically, the objectives of the ADT 
are two-fold: (i) developing assets that are fully integrated at the technical level into the 
production, distribution and customer service functions of GWI; and (ii) developing assets that 
fully enable the achievement of GWI’s business plan, License and MC targets. 
 
ADT Roles, Responsibilities and Structure
:
The ADT will manage a comprehensive process that 
will include: (i) strategic business and asset management planning based on a rolling analysis of 
consumer demand, progress towards target coverage levels and operational parameters; (ii) 
project preparation and presentation to donors based on overarching strategic priorities; (iii) 
detailed project design in close coordination with operational units; (iv) supervision of project 
execution; (v) transfer of physical assets to operational units.  
 
Financing Plan (US$ m) 
Source 
Local 
Foreign 
Total 
SDR 
US$ 
SDR 
US$ 
SDR 
US$ 
RECIPIENT 
0.7 
1.1     
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
7.5 11.3 
 
 
TOTAL 
    
8.2 
12.4 
Page  12
12
GWI and the international donors supporting the Government’s water sector reform program 
have made a strong commitment to developing a coordinated approach to supporting the ADT.  
Donors and GWI have agreed to jointly support a pool of mid- and junior-level ADT technical 
and support staff that will be mobilized strategically by GWI management to meet the evolving 
and cyclical project implementation needs of donor-financed investment programs.  A core 
group of senior project managers will be dedicated to coordinate each donor-supported program.  
The objective is to avoid past practice of each donor program supporting discrete project units 
that operate in silos with limited coordination and interaction.  The GoG, DfID, IDB and IDA are 
committed to supporting the ADT in the short-term while other donors will provide funding as 
new projects become effective.   
 
The ADT is being led by an internationally experienced engineer with extensive exposure to the 
entire asset development process.  The Team Leader participates as a key member of GWI senior 
management team and is being supported by a Head of Asset Development and Program 
Managers for each of the active donor-financed programs.  Reporting to the Head of Asset 
Development will be a core support unit with technical and administrative staff.  A Project 
Accountant based in the Finance Department and supported by a technical assistant in the ADT 
will be responsible for the financial management aspects of all donor-financed programs.  The 
remainder of the ADT structure includes technical staff pooled into a flexible group to be 
mobilized according to periodic needs for implementation and supervision. 
 
Role of GWI Board
:
The Board of GWI will provide strategic guidance to the utility during the 
process of project implementation by reviewing progress periodically.  Beyond the Project, the 
Board will review and endorse the strategic investment priorities being identified by GWI senior 
management and the ADT.   
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The main factors affecting the sustainability of the Project are: 
 
Management Contract:
The success or failure of the ongoing Management Contract will affect 
Project sustainability.  A successful MC would foster support for the broad reform agenda and 
institutional reforms.  Conversely, a failing MC due to either a non-performing management 
contractor or the lack of Government support would imperil the reform process and make it 
difficult to meet Project objectives.  Progress under the Management Contract has been slow for 
reasons including a lack of clarity in the governance framework for GWI.  The relationship 
between the GWI Board and management has been strained since the inception of the MC 
largely due to conflicting perceptions of the appropriate division of responsibilities between the 
two entities.  GWI management asserts that a greater degree of financial delegation and human 
resource management autonomy would facilitate further performance improvements.   
 
As described above, recent measures undertaken by the Government, STWI, GWI Board and 
other stakeholders to ensure a successful implementation of the MC include agreement on a 
concrete Action Plan (included in the Roadmap to Success Document) to deliver immediate and 
long-term improvements in the performance of GWI. The Action Plan developed contains ten 
key deliverables under the responsibility of the different parties. Progress against the agreed 
Page  13
13
actions will be monitored closely.  The commitment of both the Government and the operator to 
making the MC a success has thus been clearly stated by both parties and momentum for a 
successful transformation can be built. The knowledge transfer from the private contractor to 
GWI staff that is expected to occur will reinforce the long-term impact of the reform process. 
Lastly, the proposed Project will contribute to the success of the MC by supporting the 
achievement of the contract targets (addressing 4 of the 8 performance targets and the water 
quality target established in GWI’s operating license).   
 
Financial Sustainability:
Cost recovery is critical to long-term sustainability of the sector and, 
therefore, for achieving Project development objectives.  The key issue to enhancing the 
sustainability of water and sanitation service provision in Guyana is to move towards greater cost 
recovery while maintaining affordability for users, especially the most poor.  Cabinet has been 
reluctant to review tariffs in 2004 given social affordability concerns and the wish to accompany 
any tariff review with tangible improvements in levels of services. While recognizing the 
complexity of any tariff increases in areas where the services have not improved, establishing an 
equitable, manageable and sustainable tariff structure is a key priority for the sector.  GWI has 
initiated a Tariff and Revenue Study that will analyze current tariff structure, level and subsidy 
mechanism and identify the existing funding gap to achieve full cost recovery.
19
 
Following the 
review of the study by the PUC, the Government will commit to sector financial sustainability 
through (i) implementing the new tariff structure and/or level approved by the PUC; and (ii) 
outlining a clear proposal for subsidy policy for the sector for 2005 and its phasing out going 
forward.  This discussion has been incorporated in the negotiations of the new water sector 
operation and in preparation of the Guyana Poverty Reduction and Public Management 
Operation (PRPMO), formerly known as the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit II (PRSC II). 
 
Investment Sustainability:
Appropriate maintenance of the investments will also affect 
sustainability. The technical solution chosen, which is appropriate for Guyana and sufficiently 
simple given current capacity, maximizes likelihood of sound maintenance and sustainability of 
investments. Additionally, the management contractor has put in place a maintenance framework 
based on their international experience, as well as other measures and mechanisms for the proper 
functioning of operations. These include the Leakage Inspection Teams, which ensure repairs in 
a
timely fashion, and the establishment of DMAs for adequate monitoring and control.
20
 
Implementation Capacity:
Ensuring that the new ADT has the capacity to effectively implement 
the Project, the overarching investment program and meet performance targets is critical for 
sustainability.  An effective ADT will help to mobilize further funding which is critical for the 
overall success of the reform process and the achievement of Government goals for the sector. 
The funding of the necessary equipment and staff under component two of this Project and the 
commitment of other donors to do the same will minimize the risk of low implementation 
capacity. 
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
19
 
By initiating the Tariff and Revenue Study, GWI was able to meet a condition for disbursement of the IDB Georgetown II 
loan currently under implementation. 
20
 District Meter Areas 
Page  14
14
Project design incorporates the lessons learnt from the implementation of the recently completed 
IDA project in the country, the Guyana Water Supply Technical Assistance & Rehabilitation 
Project
21
 and IDA’s regional and global experience with the preparation and implementation of 
urban and rural water supply projects that involve private sector participation in politicized and 
economically stressed environments.  Additionally, the Project design reflects consumer demand 
and preferences as assessed through a series of community consultations and informal survey 
conducted in 2004 and 2005.  The Project also reflects important lessons from Output-to-Purpose 
Reviews (OPR) conducted by DfID in November 2003 and 2004.  The following are the most 
relevant lessons learned that have been applied in the preparation of this Project: 
 
ƒ
Capacity Building.
The ability to effectively implement proposed investments 
under the Project will depend considerably upon the overall management capacity of GWI.  
An Asset Development Team (ADT) has been established within GWI to lead medium-term 
investment planning and the execution of an integrated investment program.  It is critical to 
build the appropriate capacity within the ADT - including proper staffing, systems and 
training.  An emphasis on staffing ADT with competent professionals that are trained and 
retained over time is essential given recent patterns of high staff turnover within GWI.  The 
proposed operation will support the strengthening and staffing of the ADT. 
 
ƒ
Adequate technology and need for appropriate design standards.
Past projects in the sector 
have often failed to achieve a balance between optimal and context-specific appropriate 
technical solutions.  As a result, projects supported excessive automation and the use of 
sophisticated equipment that may not have been the most appropriate solution for the level of 
capacity in the country.  IDA has learned that, given the existing environment in Guyana, 
future operations must emphasize more cost-effective and easier to maintain treatment 
solutions.  Additionally, overestimation and over-dimensioning of investments can result in 
cost overruns for projects.  The proposed operation has developed minimum cost and 
adequate technology designs while ensuring that environmental protections are in place.  
This approach will likely enable the Government to meet project objectives and minimize the 
risk of over-design in the proposed project. 
 
ƒ
Flexibility in Project design and appropriate conditionalities and targets.
Recent donor 
programs in Guyana have experienced long delays in initiation and implementation due to 
the design of complex project conditionalities, objectives and indicators that fail to reflect 
real and changing sector conditions.  It is critical that future initiatives employ realistic and 
achievable targets and requirements that are in harmony with existing arrangements in the 
sector.  The proposed IDA Grant builds on these lessons and to a large degree replicates the 
targets and indicators established under the MC to enable a convergence around core sector 
goals.  
 
ƒ
Donor Coordination.
The need for donor coordination has proven particularly important in 
Guyana where GWI’s investment program would almost entirely be financed by a multi-
donor program.  During the restructuring of the last IDA project it was noted that the lack of 
donor coordination was having an adverse impact on sector performance due to 
uncoordinated standards, overlapping investments and a lack of coherent strategy.  The 
21
 ICR available in IRIS. 
Page  15
15
Donor/Government Steering Group was subsequently established to facilitate greater donor 
coordination.  The group later evolved into the Water Thematic Group (WTG), which is 
being used by the Government as a model for coordination in other sectors.  During Project 
preparation IDA participated actively in the regular WTG meetings and worked closely with 
other donors to avoid the development of stand-alone, isolated projects and ensure that all 
sector financing fits within a framework that enhances efficiency.  A key achievement during 
project preparation has been donor agreement on common financial management, reporting 
and monitoring procedures and the use of the ADT in GWI to implement all donor-financed 
projects so as to avoid the use of individual project implementation units. 
 
ƒ
Consumer Responsiveness and Education
.
A
broad body of knowledge in the water and 
sanitation sector clearly demonstrates the importance of closely monitoring levels of 
consumer satisfaction with service provision as a means to better target investments and 
focus rehabilitation efforts.  Additionally, it is also well established that involving and 
educating consumers on the management of water and sanitation services should be a critical 
component of any utility’s demand management strategy.  The proposed project will support 
a
before and after impact assessment, and activities to cover the ongoing assessments of 
consumer satisfaction and an information and education service in target communities. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
The proposed operation has been rated by QAT as 
category B
 for IDA processing purposes. 
Project activities are not expected to face any unusual environmental risks and would generally 
constitute a substantial positive environmental impact.  The Project would support the 
Government’s implementation of the 1996 Environmental Protection Act. As part of project 
preparation, GWI and the Government have developed Environmental Guidelines for 
Construction Projects and Corporate Environmental and Social Guidelines. These Guidelines 
have been reviewed, commented on and signed off by the EPA (Environmental and Protection 
Agency) of Guyana and can be found in the Project files.   
 
The construction works to be financed will require compliance with guidelines and contractors 
will be asked to develop Environmental Management Plans (EMP) to the satisfaction of GWI 
guidelines. All water supply facilities will complement the operating manuals with 
corresponding site specific EMP.  Under these conditions the Project would not cause 
environmental damage, would strengthen EPA efforts to implement the Environmental Act, and 
create a culture of environmental awareness and actions to complement good management 
practices promoted by the Project. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[ X] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Page  16
16
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
X] 
O.P. 4.01:
In accordance with O.P. 4.01, the screening tool and Environmental Guidelines for 
Construction Projects prepared as part of project preparation has been applied to the three 
investment subprojects to be financed under the Project to produce the corresponding 
Environmental Assessments
.
The Environmental Assessments exemplify the application of the 
screening tool developed. The Guidelines provide recommendations to avoid, mitigate and 
ameliorate negative environmental impacts through the development and implementation of 
EMPs to be prepared by the contractors and approved by GWI and by IDA. The Guidelines and 
Environmental Assessments are available in the Project Files. 
 
Public consultation and dissemination:
In accordance with IDA requirements, the Government 
has consulted and publicly disclosed the Environmental Guidelines for Construction Projects 
before its approval by the Board of GWI.  
 
10. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
The following key documents are amongst those available at Project Files: 
 
1.  Feasibility Studies for 3 Project Areas  
2.  Project Financial Management and Procurement Assessments 
3.  GWI Corporate Environmental Guidelines 
4.  Environmental Assessments for Planned Investments in 3 Project Ares 
5.  Guidelines for the Environmental and Social Management of Projects (EMP) and 
Operations  
6.  Guyana Water Management Contract: Roadmap to Success Part 1 and II (January 2005) 
7.  GWI Strategic Plan (May 2005) 
8.  Performance-Based Management Contract for Water Supply and Sanitation Services in 
Guyana (October 2002) 
9.  Guyana Water & Sanitation Sector: Volumes 1 and II (prepared by KPMG for DfID) 
10. Guyana Water Sector 
–
Scoping Mission: Possible Future World Bank Interventions 
(prepared by Halcrow for IDA) 
11. Output-to-Purpose Reviews 2003-2004 (DfID) 
12. Periodic GWI Management Reports (2003-2004) 
13. Performance-based Management Contract for Water and Wastewater Services (GWI): 
Baseline Year Data Report (February 2004) 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  17
17
14. Determination of Performance Targets for the GWI Management Contract (Halcrow, 
June 2004) 
15. GWI Hinterland Report & Strategy (September 2003) 
16. Guyana Water Investment Plan Review: Pre-Feasibility Study (prepared by WS Atkins 
International 
–
December 2000) 
11. Contact 
point 
 
Patricia López 
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure  
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
The World Bank 
Room No. I5 - 190 
Tel: (202) 473 7955 
Fax: (202) 676 1821 
 
12. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
