                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                              Report No: 53629 v1




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                         ON A

                    PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                  OF
                THE WATER SECTOR CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
                      IDA GRANT NUMBER H180-0-GUA

                                     July 28, 2005

                            IN THE INITIAL AMOUNT OF
                                 US$11.3 MILLION

                                         AND

                         A RESTRUCTURED AMOUNT OF
                               US$11.3 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                      COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

GWI   Guyana Water Incorporated
CIP   GWI's Capital Investment Planning Department
PIU   Project Implementing Unit




                  Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                Country Director:       Yvonne Tsikata
                Country Manager         Giorgio Valentini
                 Sector Manager:        Guang Zhe Chen
               Task Team Leader:        Patricia Lopez Martinez




                                    2
                                     Cooperative Republic of Guyana
                                    Water Sector Consolidation Project
                                              CONTENTS

                                                                                                                        Page
   A.     Background and current status ................................................................................ 5
   B.     Proposed Changes ................................................................................................... 7
   C.     Analysis and expected outcomes............................................................................. 7
 D. Benefits and Risks................................................................................................... 7
ANNEX 1: Proposed Changes ............................................................................................ 9




                                                              3
                                        INSERT

                                   DATA SHEET

                                          HERE



                 AFTER APPROVAL BY THE COUNTRY DIRECTOR

           THE DATA SHEET SHOULD BE INSERTED IN THIS SECTION

                             MANUALLY IN HARD COPY

               BEFORE SENDING A FINAL RP TO THE PRINT SHOP.

  DO NOT INCLUDE THIS INSTRUCTION PAGE IN THE RP SENT TO THE
                          PRINT SHOP.

NOTE: The Data Sheet can be found in the "Data Sheet" tab of the RP section of the
Operations Portal. Information in it is updated whenever such information is manually
changed in the "Data Sheet" tab at any stage during project restructuring. Prior to
sending the final RP to the Print Shop, it is best practice to confirm the information in the
data sheet before printing it out and inserting it here.




                                              4
1. This restructuring paper seeks to propose an extension of the closing date of the
   Project by 12 months from its current closing date of March 31st, 2010, to March 31st,
   2011.

A. Background and current status

2. The Project development objective is to support the achievement of sustainable
   universal access to safe and affordable water for the population of Guyana, especially
   the poor. This Project also helps to consolidate the water sector modernization and
   reform process supported by IDA and other donors in recent years. Specifically, the
   project objectives are to: (i) provide access to treated water to over 48,000 people
   through the development of treatment facilities in the coastal water supply systems in
   regions 2, 3 and 5; (ii) improve levels of service to low and medium income housing
   schemes already connected to the service; (iii) provide the technical assistance needed
   to allow for the sustainable development of water resources in Guyana, and support
   the modernization and financial sustainability of GWI; (iv) through the emergency
   component, provide funding to support recovery needs after the January 2005 floods.
   The Project consists of the following parts:

-   Part (a): Water Supply Infrastructure: To carry out construction and rehabilitation
    of water facilities of the Recipient's Anna Regina area; Parika area; and Rosignol
    area, through, inter alia:

    (i) the upgrade of raw water source works to secure supplies from the groundwater
           aquifer;

    (ii) the construction of water treatment facilities for the reduction of iron content in
            the water delivered into the Recipient's water supply systems;

    (iii) the upgrade of the water transmission system to enable continuous supply to
             customers in accordance with the targets set forth in the Management
             Contract;

    (iv) the rehabilitation of the water distribution systems to achieve Non-Revenue
            Water levels in accordance with the targets set forth in the Management
            Contract; and

    (v) the purchase of spare parts for mechanical and electrical equipment.

-   Part (b): Design, Project Management and Supervision: To strengthen CIP's
    capacity to design, execute, supervise, and monitor the project, through the provision
    of technical assistance and equipment.

-   Part (c): Institutional Strengthening: To strengthen GWI's capacity to improve its
    management, operational efficiency and financial viability, through the provision of
    technical assistance and training.

                                             5
-   Part (d): Emergency Component: To carry out the rehabilitation of the Recipient's
    water treatment plants, pumping stations and distribution systems, including water
    and sewerage, which were damaged by the floods that affected the Recipient's
    territory in January 2005.

3. The US$11.3 million grant became effective on January 25th, 2006. It disbursed about
   US$1 million in 2006, US$1 million in 2007, US$3 million in 2008 and over US$5
   million in 2009 when the largest work contracts were well underway. To date,
   disbursements total US$9.3 million and all procurement processes have been
   completed. The only works contracts awaiting signature are the drilling of 2 wells (at
   Vergenoegen and finishings at Cotton Tree) that remained outstanding from a
   previously terminated contract.

4. Project implementation is generally satisfactorily. Despite delays, outcome targets are
   on track to be reached. As of December 2009, the number of piped household water
   connections benefiting from rehabilitation works undertaken by the project reached
   5,600 (against a baseline of 0 and target of 12,000); all population in project areas
   received water supply services over 8 hours per day and 90% received a pressure of
   over 3 meters (against a continuity of up to 12 hours and an average pressure of
   around 4 meters as a baseline and continuity of 20 to 24 hours of water supply and a
   minimum pressure of 7 meters as a target); non-revenue water levels had gone down
   to 45% (against a baseline of 59% and a target of 25%).

5. Project ratings. Progress toward achievement of the Project Development Objective
   and overall implementation progress is rated "moderately satisfactory" in the last
   Implementation Status Report. The project has faced challenges during its
   implementation, which explain the delays experienced but the team has tightened
   supervision to enhance proactive problem solving and ensure adequate completion.

6. The 2008 audits of GWI had raised concern over its financial management systems.
   With the Bank team's intervention, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within
   GWI, which has separate financial management mechanisms from the rest of the
   institution, has made significant progress to resolve these weaknesses. This has
   resulted in an upgrade of the financial management rating to "satisfactory" following
   the financial management supervision mission in January 2010. As to the rest of GWI
   as an entity, the extent of its progress in FM since the last audit cannot yet be assessed
   as the 2009 audit is still underway. The procurement rating is rated "moderately
   satisfactory", and an independent procurement review to verify processes did not
   raise any issues that would undermine the performance of the project.

7. Safeguard compliance is rated "satisfactory" as OP 4.01 was the only safeguard
   triggered and the environmental assessment has been completed. Other ratings,
   including project management and monitoring and evaluation are rated "moderately
   satisfactory" and counterpart funding is rated "highly satisfactory". The recipient has
   also complied with critical legal covenants envisaged.



                                             6
B. Proposed Changes

8. The proposed change is the extension of the closing date of the Project by 12 months
   from its current closing date of March 31st, 2010, to March 31, 2011.

C. Analysis and expected outcomes

9. The changes described above do not have a significant impact on the original
   economic, financial, technical, institutional or safeguards aspects of the project.

10. The proposed extension is being requested to enable the completion of the main
    works under the project and to measure after completion the resulting improvements
    of the level of service. Principally the construction of three water treatment plants,
    which has experienced delays due to a combination of factors, namely initial delays in
    arranging the required subcontracting and liquidity issues from the main contractor,
    needs to be completed. Construction is now around 70 percent complete and is
    forecasted to be completed by September 2010 at the present rate of implementation
    progress. Project implementation was delayed by the termination of a contract for
    well drilling and another for transmission main setup. The new contract for well
    drilling to complete the remaining works is currently being negotiated for signature
    and is expected to be completed in four months. Six additional months following the
    completion of the works will be necessary to measure the improvements of the level
    of service in the project areas and evaluate the overall project achievement.

11. By completing the works, this extension will enable the project to achieve its
    development objective to provide over 48,000 beneficiaries with water that meets
    national quality standards and acceptable levels of service including pressure and
    continuity. Some of the sources of delays, such as the late contracting, have been
    solved and it is not expected that they will be repeated; however, to ensure
    completion, supervision will be tightened with more frequent missions and contact
    with the implementing agency.

12. Regarding the conditions for the extension of the closing date as set out in OP 13.30:
    (i) the progress towards the achievement of the Program's objectives is moderately
    satisfactory; (ii) the performance of the project implementing agency is generally
    satisfactory; (iii) the Grant is not subject to an ongoing suspension of disbursements;
    (iv) there are no overdue audits; and (v) a specific action plan acceptable to the
    Association has been agreed with the implementing unit, GWI.

13. Based on the above, the Bank's team recommends the extension of the Project for 12
    months to allow the completion of the remaining works as well as the full utilization
    of the Grant's proceeds and its evaluation.

D. Benefits and Risks

14. By completing ongoing contracts and the two wells, the proposed extension would
    allow fully achieving the Project's development objective by providing treated water
    to over 48,000 people through the completion of supply and treatment facilities.
                                            7
15. The proposed restructuring does not introduce any specific new risks.




                                            8
                                     ANNEX 1:
                                  Proposed Changes

a. What are the proposed changes, as applicable, in the project's development
   objectives, outcomes, design, and/or scope?

The proposed change is the extension of the closing date of the Project by 12 months
from its current closing date of March 31st, 2010, to March 31st, 2011.

b. What are the other complementary changes, as applicable:

Institutional arrangements                                ___Yes    _X_ No
If, yes, please explain:


Financing mechanism/Conduit                               ___Yes    _X_ No
If, yes, please explain:


Outputs                                                   ___Yes    _X_ No
If, yes, please explain:


Project Costs and financing plan (include summary tables) ___Yes    _X_ No
If, yes, please explain:


Financial management                                      ___Yes    _X_ No
If, yes, please explain:


Disbursement arrangements                                 ___Yes    _X_ No
If, yes, please explain:


Procurement                                               ___Yes    _X_ No
If, yes, please explain:


Closing date                                              _X_ Yes    ___No
If, yes, please explain:

The extension is necessary to allow the completion of the remaining works and full
utilization of the Grant's proceeds.

Implementation schedule                                   _X_ Yes    ___No
If, yes, please explain:

                                           9
Related to preceding point.




                              10
