                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 25647

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (IDA-31380)

                                    ON A

                       LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT

               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION (5.0 US$ MILLION)

                                   TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                                   FOR A

             COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                               November 24, 2003




Country Department 9
Human Development III
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                             Currency Unit = Franc Rwandais (FRw)
                              FRw 535.62 = US$ 1
                                      US$ 1 = 0.00186 FRw

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1     December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        African Development Bank
AGETIP     Agence d'Exécution de Travaux d'Intérêt Public
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBG        Community-Based Group
CDA        Community Development Agent
CDC        Community Development Committee
CRDP       Community Reintegration and Development Project
CSF        Commune Solidarity Fund
DCU        Decentralization Coordination Unit
FMS        Financial Management Specialist
FRw        Rwanda Franc
FY         Fiscal Year
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
IDA        International Development Association
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
MIGEFASO   Ministry for Gender, Family and Social Affairs
MINALOC    Ministry of Local Administration, Information and Social Affairs
MINECOFIN  Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MININTER   Ministry of Internal Affairs
NGO        Non-governmental organization
PCMU       Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
PNAS       Programme National d'Actions Sociales
PRA        Participatory Rural Appraisal
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USAID      United States Agency for International Development

                            Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                          Country Director      Emmanuel Mbi
                           Sector Manager       Laura Frigenti
                         Task Team Leader       Toni Kayonga

                                           RWANDA
         COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Summary of CRDP Final Evaluation Report                                 26

Project ID: P051931                                                  Project Name: COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION
                                                                     AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Toni Ntaganda Kayonga                                   TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 17, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION AND                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-31380
                            DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF RWANDA                                                  Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (25%); Other social
                            services (25%); General transportation sector (20%); Agro-industry
                            (17%); General public administration sector (13%)
                  Theme: Civic engagement, participation and community driven development
                            (P); Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P);
                            Decentralization (P); Other social protection and risk management
                            (S); Other rural development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/22/1998                                     Effective: 10/01/1998                03/31/1999
     Appraisal: 02/16/1998                                         MTR: 10/01/2000                  03/05/2001
      Approval: 10/15/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Rwanda/Ministry of Local Administration
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Nils O. Tcheyan
Sector Manager:                 Laura Frigenti                                 Arvil Van Adams
Team Leader at ICR:             Toni Kayonga                                   Markus Kostner
ICR Primary Author:             Sati Achath; Pamphile
                                Kantabaze


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

            The development objective of the US$5.28 million project (Credit US$5.00 million) was to
demonstrate that community reintegration and development can effectively take place through a process of
government decentralization and community participation. To that end, the project sought to: (a) assist
returnees and other vulnerable groups through a process of community-based reintegration and
development; and (b) strengthen the capacity of local communities and the administration at the communal
and national levels for the implementation of development projects.

            The objective was clear, important to the country's economic and social development, and
realistic in scale and scope. At that particular post-genocide era, the government needed to create
appropriate environment and relationship for building mutual trust and reconciliation recovery amongst
Rwandan ethnic groups. It was also timely and appropriate to the needs of the Borrower at a time when the
government was struggling to cope up with the massive return of refugees (over 1.5 million) in late 1996
and early 1997. In addition, the project came at a critical time when the government itself had
conceptualized decentralization and participatory approach to make people responsible for development,
but was not sure of the direction to proceed with. In a country where centralized authority essentially
impeded the effective fight against poverty at the community level and led to dramatic socio-political
consequences, the community development approach initiated by the government appeared to be the most
promising avenue to lead Rwanda and its people to a brighter future. The project, therefore, supported the
government by piloting methods for a long-term and autonomous Commune Solidarity Fund (CSF). In
particular, it focused on: (a) strengthening capacities at central and local levels; (b) initiating
community-based procurement and disbursement mechanisms; and (c) developing transparent financial
management procedures at the community level.

            The project was consistent with the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed
by the Executive Directors on April 7, 1998. Being one of the CAS's key lending operations, it used a
creative approach to address the special problems of the country and to enhance institutional capacities
especially at the local level. It targeted the social and economic reintegration of refugees and vulnerable
groups and at the same time to build local mechanisms for revitalizing rural economies through
infrastructure and income-generating sub-projects. The project was based on the principle of autonomous
community development that can be sustained in the long-run when external resources may be scarcer. The
project, therefore supported an internalized implementation structure that fosters a partnership between
local administration and local community. The key elements of the overall strategy thus focused on
decentralization (political strategy), financial autonomy (economic strategy), and partnership (social
strategy).

            Though the Bank served as a catalyst for other donors, its direct role in donor coordination has
been quite limited. Indeed, the main donors came on board only later, and then through government's
insistence they agreed to use CRDP model. On another hand, the Bank could support government's efforts
to operationalize its community development strategy in ways that include local officials and the
communities at large, placing heavy emphasis on the development of human resources.

            The project took into account lessons learned from the previous Bank-assisted PNAS Project,
(Programme National d'Actions Sociales), which in its last phase financed a pilot CRDP type operation
that was based on participatory rural appraisals (PRA) in four communes during its preparation. Those
PRAs assisted the communities in: (a) identifying and prioritizing their needs; (b) identifying project



                                                        - 2 -

interventions that address these needs most effectively; and (c) identifying specific local institutional
arrangements that ensure proper decentralization of decision-making and participation of all population
groups. The project was designed around the findings and lessons from these PRAs. The project was also
built on the findings of the World Development Report (WDR) 1997 on `The State in a Changing World',
which had observed that, to bridge the gap between the state and its citizens, it is important to: (a) increase
openness and transparency; (b) strengthen incentives for participation in public affairs; and (c) bring
government closer to the people and communities it is meant to serve. In addition, the project shared the
central importance that social funds place on participation as well as on monitoring and evaluation. In
addition, the project was also built on the worldwide lessons of decentralization.

           The project, which was demand-driven and responded to the specific needs as identified by the
communities and community-based groups, envisioned the following social benefits in a number of sectors
such as: (a) settlement; (b) social infrastructure; (c) sustainable livelihoods; and (d) capacity building. It
was also aimed to benefit the following target groups: (a) communal administrations and CDCs through
capacity building and enhanced fiscal decentralization; (b) community-based groups (such as women's and
credit groups, local cooperatives and other local associations) through capacity building and financial
assistance for income-generating sub-projects; and (c) the local population through participation in local
affairs and enhanced access to community infrastructure and services.

         The project recognized and took into account the following five risk factors which could affect
project implementation, viz:

·        Local population and local administration do not build a relationship of mutual trust.
Measures to mitigate this risk included: closely monitoring implementation to identify areas of conflict
early on; devising local conflict mediation mechanisms; fostering spirit of partnership through training
communities in participation and communication techniques.

·        Required course corrections at local and national levels not undertaken during project
implementation. In order to minimize this risk, efforts were to be made to ensure transparency and
accountability of the decision-making process; close monitoring of implementation and reviewing of
progress reports.

·        Communities are not willing to enter into partnerships with communal administrations. This
risk was to be reduced by continuous monitoring of functioning of local committees; increasing motivation
of local committees through timely availability of funds and transparency in fund management.

·        Community decision-making process not working because of perceived or actual government
intervention in local decision-making . Mitigating measures included: a priori identifying responsibilities
and obligations of government and communities; demonstrating the synergic effects of
government-community cooperation; ensuring transparency and accountability.

·        Local security situation does not permit freedom of expression/association and free movement of
people, goods and services. It was expected that community participation might work towards increased
cohesiveness of communities and prevent the occurrence of local violence.

         The project was very demanding for the Borrower because the country was adjusting itself from
the civil war and genocide. In addition, in Rwanda's post-conflict context, where it had lost its precious
human resources in the war and genocide, implementation capacity was a major problem. Further, the



                                                       - 3 -

Borrower had to encounter lot of political opposition and resistance in the early stages, because of the
resistance to the concept of giving more powers to grass root level. It took more than 18 months for the
Borrower to overcome this obstacle. The project design was quite straight forward and not overly complex.

3.2 Revised Objective:

         The project development objective did not change during the project life time.

3.3 Original Components:


             The project targeted 12 vulnerable communes and comprised the following four components.
                                                                   1


The components were related to achieving the project's objectives.

             Implementation involved community members and the communal, prefectoral and national levels                      2


of government. At the national level, a Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) was created in
the Ministry of the Interior, Communal Development and Resettlement (MININTER) and it was later
transferred to the Ministry of Local Administration and Social Affairs (MINALOC), under the direct
control of the Secretary General and the Minister himself. Capacity of PCMU was almost non-existent in
the beginning of project preparation because of the human resources lost in the genocide. As a result, many
of its team members were recruited from outside Rwanda, but they were highly motivated individuals, very
much eager to contribute to Rwanda's reconstruction process. The project team was comprised of : one
project coordinator, one accountant, one one monitoring & evaluation specialist, and one training specialist.
In addition, 24 local agents (i.e.: one accountant and one community development specialist per commune)
were recruited to support the project implementation at the community level.

             The commune level was the primary entry point of the project. The central decision-making body
of the project was the Community Development Committee (CDC) which was established by the existing
communal councils with administrative and financial autonomy. The CDC adopted its rules of procedures,
including replacement of members and re-elections. At the time of the ICR mission all districts in the
country were run by elected Municipal Councils chaired by a Mayor. In accordance with the law on
decentralization, elected Deputy Mayors in charge of Finance and Economic Planning have become the "de
facto" chairpersons for CDCs at the district level. CDCs have played a major role, particularly regarding
coordination of CRDP sub-projects with similar governmental and non-governmental activities.

1/ With the implementation of the decentralization policy, the initial 12 communes have been integrated in 11 new Districts.

2/ Decentralization policy has formalized (a) District level and (b) National level, respectively for Local and Central
Governments. Intermediary (or Provincial) level will play a transition role in supervising implementation of District level
structures, and then will disappear progressively.


Component 1: Community initiatives (US$4.35 million; 82.6% of the total project cost)

             Each of the participating communes was to receive on average, approximately US$215,000 over
three years to be used for: (a) infrastructure sub-projects (such as the rehabilitation of health centers,
schools and roads); (b) income-generating sub-projects (for instance a livestock bank or micro-project
initiated by a local group); and (c) capacity building sub-projects (training, transport, communication, and
office rehabilitation and equipment). In addition, the CDC was to receive about US$ 35,000 per annum to
cover the costs of partner agencies and local operating expenses. The communities were to develop
one-year community development plans and decide upfront for each year the block allocation for each of



                                                              - 4 -

the three sub-project categories according to needs.

Component I1: Institution and capacity building (US$0.38 million; 7.1% of the total project cost)

           The project financed participatory rural appraisals and training activities to build local
capacities for sustainable, self-reliant development. The training program included the following areas: (a)
participatory rural appraisal methods; (b) organizational management; (c) project management; (d)
financial management (including procurement and contract administration); and (e) environmental
awareness and training. When and where appropriate, conflict resolution modules were to be incorporated
into the training activities. Training activities were to be undertaken at the national level (PCMU and other
MININTER/MINALOC staff) and, with a particular focus, the community level (CDC members,
community-based groups, community development agents, etc.). The project was also expected to facilitate
the regular exchange of experiences among participating communes.

Component II1: Studies (US$0.02 million; 0.3% of the total project cost)

           The project financed studies to deepen the understanding of the concept of decentralization and
participation, as they related to the community's role in socio-economic development. Their results were to
be fed into sector policy planning and project improvements as required.

Component 1V: Project coordination and monitoring (US$0.53 million; 10% of the total project cost)

           The project provided critical equipment, materials and supplies to the PCMU as well as covered
its operating costs to enable it to effectively carry out its coordination and monitoring responsibilities. It
also financed two external evaluations (mid-term and final) and annual external audits.

3.4 Revised Components:

Not applicable

3.5 Quality at Entry:

         Highly Satisfactory. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated the project as `highly
satisfactory' for quality at entry. The ICR also deems the quality at entry to be highly satisfactory and the
project as well conceived. As mentioned in the earlier section, the project objective was consistent with the
country assistance strategy and the government priorities and met the critical needs of the social sector. The
project's design was appropriate since it addressed the needs of the country and population. A special
design feature was the emphasis on a partnership between the local administration and the local population
through the inclusion of local government officials in CDCs. Unanimously, all the CDCs members
encountered at the completion stage quoted the project as the only operation which was aimed at involving
effective community participation to design and implement the projects, based on their own needs and
priorities.




                                                        - 5 -

           To start a new and innovative process in a situation where 'normal' projects would not work, the
project preparation team proposed a LIL, which was the most appropriate lending instrument. First, the
project was to be undertaken within a climate of insecurity, both political and social. By helping to
overcome the trauma of genocide and a culture of obedience, it ventured out into uncharted territory, both
in Rwanda and in its approach. Second, it used a promising but a novel approach by partnering local
populations with local administrations in an effort to build joint ownership of the development process.
Third, the activities to be funded under the project could not be determined beforehand as communities
were to identify their needs and attendant interventions during implementation. Moreover, as communities
were enabled to fine-tune the implementation arrangements within a generic framework, project
implementation was to vary among communes. By using the LIL, the Bank acknowledged the inherent
risks involved and the realism of project conditionality.

        Major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier projects in the social sector in Rwanda
and other countries were considered and incorporated into the project design. Views of stakeholders at each
affected level of government, of returning refugees and ex-combatants, of local (and international) NGOs
and other associations, and local beneficiaries, were elicited and incorporated into the project. This
participatory process in project preparation substantially contributed to the quality and readiness at entry.

           During project preparation, alternative project designs such as social funds; social action
programs; and Agence d'Exécution de Travaux d'Intérêt Public (AGETIP) were considered. These options
were rejected since their main weaknesses were lack of investment in local organizational capacity;
neglecting arrangements for monitoring participation and assessing impact, casting doubts on their
long-term sustainability; and inability to address the overarching post-war need to build a partnership
between the government and its people.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Highly Satisfactory.

The major outcomes and achievements of the project are as follows:

·       Set the pace for decentralization. The project contributed immensely to set the pace, and provided
guidance for the decentralization program. The government, in turn, responded favorably by initiating
"Rwanda's Decentralization Policy'. In fact, the project became a part and parcel of the government's
decentralization strategy and as a result, project communities are now closely involved in the
decision-making process. Furthermore, the CRDP Manual has become the basis for similar MINALOC
projects, and the PCMU has participated in the preparation of a joint training manual for all related
projects. In short, decentralization and participation as pioneered by the project received the full support of
communities as well as local and central governments.

For their part, the CDCs have generally proven their ability to handle the responsibilities assigned to them
in the decentralization process: sub-projects have been elaborated and executed, visits to beneficiaries are
undertaken regularly, and quarterly monitoring reports are prepared. For example, the CDCs procure
works, goods and services in compliance with the procedures of the project implementation manual. It has
also been established that works and goods procured by CDCs are of good quality.




                                                      - 6 -

·         Institutionalized CDCs. The project was instrumental in giving people the power to make choices
according to the needs and priorities as identified by themselves through PRAs. For example, CDC has
been recognized as an institution by a decree from the President of Rwanda as part of the country's
constitution, and has been further strengthened through the government's Decentralization Policy. This
reality is further demonstrated by the fact that the concept of CDC has been scaled up from commune level
to district level, where mayor is the head of committee.

CDC has demonstrated an effective model for assisting returnees and other vulnerable groups to reintegrate
into local communities. The communities responded to the needs of the vulnerable and provided
micro-credits to enable vulnerable persons and households to resume agricultural and pastoral activities to
support themselves. Each of the 161 CDC commune members, plus the 24 local CRDP staff, participated
in four rounds of training, receiving training in the following areas: structure and functions of the CDC and
its relations with other institutions; good governance; patriotism and work organization; project agreements
and procedures; participatory planning; project management; rural entrepreneurship; gender and
development; adult education; environmental awareness and hygiene; establishment of data base,
communications and conflict resolution.

Further, the CDC commune members served as trainers of CDC sector members who in turn trained CDC
cell members. Out of 6650 beneficiaries, over 3,900 elected CDC members in the project communes, thus,
received training. In addition, the PCMU and Bank staff undertook various training sessions at the CDC
commune level in procurement and financial management. As of April 30, 2003, 64 sessions had been
completed, including notably workshops, training sessions and study tours. Those were targeted on CDCs,
as well as women and youth organizations. They were mainly focused on: sectoral planning, project design
and implementation, in areas such as water & sanitation, education; gender & reproductive health;
HIV/AIDS prevention; micro-finance; MS Word & Excel Software.

·         Established a rapport between people and CDCs. The initial PRAs carried out at the start of
project preparation had shown that the population welcomed the opportunity to determine its own
development. At mid-term, the project proved that indeed, the population feels that a new era of
development has commenced. At project closure also, the population in the project communes was
generally feeling that they were being represented by the CDCs, and that a sense of mutual confidence has
been established. All CDCs now discuss project related issues in a frank manner and resolve
problems harmoniously. They interact with the population regularly and transparently. For
instance, the community development and action plans are affixed visibly in each local CRDP
office, comparing planned with actual results.

This partnership goes both ways: while the CDCs are in close contact with the people, the people in turn
are putting pressure on CDC members to speed up progress when they feel delays are unnecessary.
Overall, the population is satisfied with the work of the CDCs, which they accept as a new structure for
local development beyond the project. For example, when an international NGO visited Maraba
commune to identify beneficiaries for a seed distribution program, the population referred the
NGO to the CDC.

In addition, the project results had a demonstrative effect for neighboring areas so that the demand for the
project increased beyond the targeted districts. The Ministry was keen for the project to extend as rapidly
as possible to all areas of the districts currently targeted, and to replicate the project over the entire country.
This justified the Bank's agreement to the government request for Bank's co-financing for a follow-on
project.



                                                        - 7 -

·        Created a disciplined framework for donor intervention. The project facilitated in streamlining
and harmonizing the development process at local level. All donor contributions are now channeled
through CDCs. Community Development plans are prioritized and approved at District level, and then sent
to PCMU for implementation.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Community initiatives

A. Infrastructure sub-projects

·        In the education sector, 192 class rooms and offices, four dormitories, one refectory, and 125
latrines were constructed; and 125 class rooms and offices, one refectory, and five latrines were
rehabilitated. In addition, essential equipment were purchased.
·        In the health sector, one health center, one dispensary and maternity unit, one health post, and three
dwelling houses for staff were constructed; and one health center, and one health post were rehabilitated.
One ambulance, one radiography equipment, 249 beds and mattresses were purchased.
·        For district administration and technical services, 12 sector offices three slaughter houses, two
veterinary dispensaries, 150 coffins, two genocide memorials, 4050 meters of electric lines, and 15 kiosks
were constructed; further, seven sector offices, and six district offices were rehabilitated.
·        In the water sector, 47.55 km of water adduction was extended and rehabilitated, 10
water-catchment and five water reservoirs were constructed.
·        Under roads and bridges activities, 38 km of roads were extended and rehabilitated and 12
bridges were constructed and rehabilitated.
·        For the accommodation of vulnerable people, 82 lodges were constructed and 89 lodges were
rehabilitated.

B. Income-generating sub-projects

         By April 30, 2003, income-generating sub-projects totaling FRw 83.9 million were under
implementation, with 100 percent of funds disbursed. These sub-projects have a significant impact on the
communities, directly benefiting 6,795 people, of whom 63% are women. Almost 35% of the activities
were in agriculture and almost 30 in commerce. These income-generating sub-projects are considered
essential to re-launch the local economy, and all micro-projects have to be beneficial to the wider
community .

Component I1: Institution and capacity building

         See Section 4.1 on institutionalizing CDCs.




                                                      - 8 -

Component II1: Studies

         The project had envisaged the financing of studies to deepen the understanding of the concepts of
decentralization and participation as they relate to the community's role in socio-economic development.
The Bank and the government had discussed several topics but generally agreed that studies were not a
priority during the start-up phase. A study planned on micro-finance was not undertaken as two related
studies had just been completed. A further study on the impact of urban agglomerations on the
socio-economic development of peri-urban communes was planned by the PCMU but not accepted by the
Ministry of Local Administration and Social Affairs (MINALOC). With hindsight, this study might have
provided useful information given the redrawing of communal boundaries in March 2001 and the ensuing
inclusion of several communes (including CRDP communes) in urban centers. A study on the role of
communities and local administrations in the environment maintenance and protection has been completed.
Other studies are under preparation and will be conducted under further decentralization projects. Those
include: (i) land use management; (ii) coordination of local development; and (iii) comparative analysis of
different community-based projects.

Component 1V: Project coordination and monitoring

         The project financed critical equipment, materials and supplies to the PCMU, and covered its
operating costs. In addition, it also financed mid-term and final evaluations, and annual external audits.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         Substantial. The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact. It provided a
model and guidance for the government's decentralization program which has become the pivotal point on
its poverty reduction strategy. As a forerunner on the mechanism to give power to the people, it has also
registered valuable leads in institutional development that could be replicable elsewhere with suitable
adaptation.

         The project's centerpiece, the CDCs, combined the vertical (decentralization) and horizontal
(participation) dimensions of people-oriented development. This has gone a long way towards the
development of an appropriate future-oriented strategy aimed at self-determination and sustainability. The
results after four years of operation have surpassed expectations. The CDCs in the project communes have
generally proven their ability to handle the responsibilities assigned to them in the decentralization process.
Decisions are taken in a sovereign manner. CDCs have been able to, among others: prepare procurement
and disbursement plans; elaborate sub-project proposals; carry out the procurement procedures as required
by the project and the NTB; prepare quarterly work plans and quarterly progress reports; and monitor the
execution of sub-projects.

         Ownership is exemplified by the facts that CDCs: (i) do not accept that NGOs manage funds on
their behalf, or implement any project out of the Community Development Plan; (ii) are economical in


                                                      - 9 -

making decisions; (iii) use funds judiciously (for instance, denying top-up payments for line ministry staff
for project-related work, as this falls in their purview in any event); (iv) follow-up closely on timely and
quality delivery of works, goods and services as procured; and (v) supervise the work of the local project
staff closely.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         Limited capacity outside the government delayed project implementation. In the initial stages of
the project, there was an overall delay of about nine months in implementation. This was because, local
capacities were even more limited than anticipated, as CDC members had been elected on the basis of trust,
not competence. Consequently, the PCMU undertook a major effort aimed at training CDC members
elected in March 1999 to equip them with the skills to execute the project at the local level. This capacity
building had priority over any rushed execution of the community action plans. This in turn led to
substantial disbursement lags.

         Political resistance. From the start, the project had to overcome major political resistance and
hurdles which led to a substantial delay between negotiations and effectiveness. Although other donors were
becoming active in this area (USAID/OTI, UNDP), the concepts of decentralization and participation were
only slowly taking root.

         Bank's disbursement regulations. The Bank's disbursement regulations had several negative
effects. Following standard procedures, the authorized allocation for the special account was kept low at
the beginning ($100,000). Even though project supervision identified the potential for liquidity bottlenecks
early on, the increase in the authorized allocation was approved ex post facto, i.e., when the problems had
already become severe, rather than as part of advance planning. Further, the project was also confronted
with a range of procedures and processes required by different donors.

         The unstable situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo during the implementation period
distracted the government's considerable attention.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Favorable Factors

         MINALOC. The creation of MINALOC in early 1999 and the shift of related responsibilities from
the former Ministry of the Interior, Communal Development and Resettlement (MININTER) enabled
MINALOC to focus on local administration and development matters without being distracted by internal
security matters. Through MINALOC, the government could also provide a largely conducive environment
to project implementation.

         Political recognition of community empowerment and organizational framework set up and
implemented, central government's recognition and willingness to share development with communities,
elected community representatives trained to participate in local governments and monitor implementation
of sub-projects, legal decentralization and devolution with strong support from local governments and
donor community.




                                                       - 10 -

Unfavorable Factors

(i) Counterpart funding. Lack of counterpart funds hampered project implementation. For instance, the
government did not provide the PCMU with its counterpart contribution for 2000, although it had been
included in the national budget. In many cases, the civil works were completed after the time allotted in the
contracts.

ii) Cumbersome procedures. In the initial stages of the implementation, many of the procedures regarding
procurement requests for replenishment of special account, and recruitment of staff were cumbersome and
time consuming and they affected the efficiency of project implementation. For example, National Tender
Board (NTB) procedures substantially affected the implementation of the project.

(iii) Local non-profit organizations. On a project level, one constraint was that since local non-profit
organizations do not pay taxes, they did not fulfill an essential requirement of the NTB, and were therefore
not eligible to be awarded contracts. The CDCs then had to rely on contractors from outside the commune,
which reduced the potential capacity building at the local level.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Favorable Factors

PCMU. The PCMU comprised of highly motivated, committed, and competent staff. They were actively
and vigorously pursuing the implementation of the project, improving procedures on their own initiative to
ensure their appropriateness for reaching project objectives. They were the project's most important asset.

Unfavorable Factors

Lack of familiarity with the procedures. Due to lack of familiarity with the procedures on the part of the
CDC members and accountants, replenishment requests initially were submitted late and often needed
revision. The ensuing shortage of funds made several seasonal activities impossible (for instance, the
rehabilitation of bridges during the rainy season, or agricultural activities after the relevant crop cycle).

Delay in completing works. Works were not always completed within the time allotted in the contracts. The
major reasons for these delays included: (i) the time foreseen in the contract was not always realistic; (ii) in
three communes, the contribution of the beneficiaries, which was a precondition for starting the works, was
not forthcoming on time; and (iii) some entrepreneurs were not able to fulfill their obligations in due time
and the tendering procedure had to be re-launched.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project was US$6.30 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$5.27 million.
The Bank financed US$5.0 million (79.3%), the government contributed US$1.15 million equivalent in
local costs (18.2%), and the co-financiers contributed US$0.16 million (2.5%).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Highly Likely. The sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely because of the following factors:



                                                     - 11 -

·         Government is committed to the concept of the project, and there is strong support extended by the
Bank and other donors to achieve this objective. The decentralization architecture as it exists now would
sustain the community demand-driven approach.

·         As mentioned in Section 4.1, CDC has been recognized as an institution by a decree from the
President of Rwanda as part of the country's constitution, and has been further strengthened through the
government's Decentralization Policy. Further, the concept of CDC has been scaled up from commune
level to district level, where mayor is the head of committee.

·         Capacity of CDCs to initiate their own local development activities has been strengthened by the
project. Because of the training provided to them, their skills have improved in financial management,
project management and other areas to successfully implement projects at community level. At local level,
district government is responsible to put together budget that covers development and normal social
services.

·          Regarding fiscal decentralization, USAID has started a pilot project with MINALOC to devise a
system and test its implementation. Furthermore, the government plans to allocate 10 percent of the annual
national budget to a Community Development Fund (CDF). These funds would be used by District
Councils (DCs) to execute their plans.

However, the project cannot yet sustain without external support. First, capacities remain weak, and a
continued focus on sensitization of the population and more training of CDC members will be necessary. It
is important not to leave the success of the project to be completely forgotten because of lack of funds. For
this, it is essential to have a follow-on project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

          The follow-on project will continue to use the same institutional structure in MINALOC and at the
local level; use the same staff at the central and local level; and use the same operating procedures and
implementation manual.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

          Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the
project was highly satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for
interventions in Rwanda. The project design ensured its consistency with the government's development
priorities and the Bank's country assistance strategy. In addition, the Bank also covered in-depth
sociological aspects and local issues while designing the project. With a harmonious team of a good skill
mix, it brought in state-of-the-art expertise into project design, providing for flexibility and responsiveness
to local needs.

          During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and
all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement
and financial management. In addition, during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and
benefits. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. Extensive stakeholder consultations at community level was highly productive, and initiated a



                                                      - 12 -

process of ownership that proved invaluable at the implementation stage.

7.2 Supervision:



          Satisfactory. In its quality of supervision assessment for FY00, the QAG rated Bank supervision
of the project as `highly satisfactory'. The ICR considers the Bank's performance during the
implementation of the project to be satisfactory.

          Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and
closely monitored. Over the four years of project implementation, there were nine supervision missions,
with an average of about two missions per year. The Bank's client relationship was very cordial and
productive. Review teams included specialists in human resource economics, education, social policy,
social evaluation, participation and capacity building, operations, financial management, disbursement, and
procurement. External consultants were used for specific aspects of project components.

          Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues. These
alerted the government and the implementing agencies to problems with project execution and facilitated
remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The PSRs realistically rated the
performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank task team was able to define
concrete steps and timetable for putting the project back on track and pace. The Bank paid sufficient
attention to the project's likely development impact. The quality of advice, and the follow-up on agreed
actions were adequate. Loan covenants and remedies were enforced effectively. There was a high level of
Bank fiduciary accountability, with procurement and financial management staff involvement in the
supervision of this project including a procurement specialist and a Financial Management Specialist
(FMS) from Africa Technical Unit for Quality and Knowledge (AFTQK) ; a Disbursement Officer and a
Disbursement Analyst from Loan Department, Africa Region (LOA). The team had also taken the
appropriate steps to ensure that the funds for community based projects (the largest component) will be
controlled and accounted for.

          Local staff from the Kigali and Bujumbura field offices were closely involved in supervision. All
contacts with the PCMU passed through the social sector operations officer in Kigali, whose help was
critical to adapt the project to evolving local circumstances and quickly resolve any emerging problems.
This arrangement enhanced the processing time (including procurement reviews, non-objections,
replenishment requests, etc.). On-the-job training was undertaken by supervision missions (from
Bujumbura and headquarters), especially in procurement and financial management matters.

          The supervision team assisted the project staff to focus attention on all relevant policy and
operational issues, and contributed much to getting the new commune-based methodology accepted by both
government and donors, and implementation under way.

          The procurement supervision followed all the essential steps for a satisfactory rating ­ preparation
of implementation manual, training on procurement process, monitoring to build good capacity, review of
procurement procedures, review of procurement, participation of procurement staff in missions and regular
progress reporting. Since the project was a LIL, the task team devoted much time to communicating and
learning in the context of testing processes and institutional arrangements.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:



                                                     - 13 -

      Satisfactory. The Bank performance was highly satisfactory during project preparation and appraisal
but satisfactory during implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         Highly Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was highly
satisfactory. The Borrower displayed a very high level of commitment to the objectives of the project.
During the conception and preparation phase, MININTER staff played a crucial role, reflecting the high
priority the government attached to community development. The preparatory field work was coordinated
by MININTER, and the local administrations actively assisted in encouraging communities to participate in
the task of local development planning. In preparation of the project, MININTER expanded its capacities
and established a Decentralization Coordination Unit. Simultaneously and independently, the government
also revised the Community Solidarity Fund concept according to the changed post-war social and political
realities and viewed the project as a pilot approach for the operation of the CSF. In addition, the
government officials and staff of the implementing agency worked closely with the Bank's project team on a
continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         Satisfactory. The government implementation performance was in general satisfactory. It
consistently maintained its commitment throughout the implementation. Prior to effectiveness, MINALOC:
(i) correctly applied the agreed-upon criteria for selecting the 12 participating communes; and (ii)
established the PCMU as planned but with slight differences in staffing due to the evolving nature of the
project. MINALOC paid particular attention for recruiting high quality of staff. The implementation
performance by MINALOC is deemed `highly satisfactory'. Most importantly, MINALOC did not
interfere in local decision-making; the CDCs had full authority over local project implementation issues.

         The government's firm support to the project is further exemplified by the fact that MINALOC
required that all community-based projects use the project implementation and training manuals. Moreover,
several CRDP communes (Mutura, Mubuga, Mukarange and Shyanda) served as model communes for the
sensitization of the general population (through a media campaign) about the objectives, functioning and
critical roles of CDCs in the realization of the government's decentralization and participation policy.

         During implementation, MINALOC undertook important course corrections as required, in
particular: (i) immediately after effectiveness (i.e., right after the first CDC elections), PCMU staff were
heavily engaged in setting up CDCs throughout the country, not just in the project communes; (ii) since
NTB procedures proved burdensome, leading to long delays in approving infrastructure sub-projects, NTB
was decentralized through the creation of Provincial Tender Councils, and timelines were much shortened;
and (iii) the PCMU had started out with one office, but by mid-term, the work environment had much
improved, with three offices at the disposal of the PCMU. Furthermore, the government provided sufficient
logistics support for PCMU and local staff to perform their duties properly.

         However, as highlighted in section 5 above, some factors may have affected the project
implementation:

·        Although counterpart funds have been regularly foreseen in the national budget, delay or lack in
real time have often hampered project implementation.



                                                       - 14 -

·        National Tender Board (NTB) procedures substantially affected the implementation of the project.
In many cases, the civil works were completed after the time allotted in the contracts. In the initial stages
of the implementation, many of the procedures regarding procurement requests for replenishment of special
account, and recruitment of staff were cumbersome and time consuming and they affected the efficiency of
project implementation.
·        Since local non-profit organizations do not pay taxes, they did not fulfill an essential requirement
of the NTB, and were therefore not eligible to be awarded contracts. The CDCs then had to rely on
contractors from outside the commune, which reduced the potential capacity building at the local level.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         Highly Satisfactory. The performance of PCMU, which coordinated the project, was highly
satisfactory. PCMU staff were experienced, competent, and motivated; they performed at exceptional
levels. All technical PCMU staff (Coordinator, Project Officer, Training Officer, Project Accountant) fully
understood the logic and rationale of the project and were committed to realize its development objective.
The Project Coordinator managed the staff effectively to the full satisfaction of all involved. All technical
staff were fully abreast of developments and even though they were assigned certain tasks and communes,
they routinely and effectively covered other tasks and communes to help out their colleagues.

         The efforts of a strong and dedicated project implementation team prevented many problems from
arising, especially regarding fiduciary responsibilities. The risk involved in transferring funds and
decision-making authority to the communities was mitigated by constant supervision. PCMU technical staff
spent a good part of their time in the field, undertaking regular monitoring and field visits. They maintained
close contact with the CDCs, local CRDP staff and beneficiaries, thereby building bridges of trust between
the central government and the population.

         PCMU staff also followed the provisions of the implementation manual judiciously yet with
appropriate flexibility and ensured that the criteria of eligibility were properly applied (beneficiaries,
sectors of intervention, project activities, and technical evaluation criteria). Moreover, all legal covenants
were fulfilled (audit, monitoring, reporting, etc.). Because of the close follow-up on the ground, the PCMU
was up-to-date on CDC activities and, thus, in a position to give its non-objections quickly. On a regular
basis, the PCMU Accountant visited the CDCs to ensure that all contracting, procurement and
disbursement functions were carried out in accordance with the guidelines of the project implementation
manual. Reviews of the documents for funds disbursed showed that the CDC accountants were properly
keeping records of the expenditures incurred. The internal control being undertaken at the CDC level were,
thus, considered satisfactory. Without such professional staff, the project could not have achieved the
impressive results; their performance is thus deemed `highly satisfactory'.

         Environmental management of the CRDP sub-projects by the PCMU and the CDCs was
satisfactory. For the scale and scope of sub-projects undertaken, the capacity was sufficient for identifying
and assessing negative environmental impacts and devising mitigation measures. Furthermore, the CDCs
were successful in integrating the responsible line ministry staff in the environmental management process
for project activities.

         Commune-level project staff also performed in an exemplary manner in their tasks of assisting the
CDCs. Committed and engaged, they maintained close collaboration with CDC members. They provided
counseling and support for preparing infrastructure sub-projects, analyzing income-generating sub-projects
and providing on-the-job training for beneficiaries of micro-projects, thereby helping the CDCs to
progressively assume full responsibility. They also regularly visited beneficiaries and sub-project sites.


                                                      - 15 -

         Contrary to initial plans, the commune-level project staff (one Community Development Agent and
one CDC Accountant per commune) were recruited by the PCMU rather than by each CDC, as their
recruitment was essential to render the CDCs operational. If problems arose, or if staff resigned, the CDC
and PCMU jointly decided on new staff. This arrangement reduced the risk of collusion and thus
misappropriation of funds at the CDC level. Local project staff were under close CDC scrutiny yet being
more neutral, found it easier to resist unwarranted pressure. This rationale was behind the decision of the
PCMU to rotate CDAs and CDC accountants to other project communes.

         Accounting and financial management of the loan proceeds were satisfactory. The CDC
accountants were trained in planning, budgeting and disbursing project funds. CDC procurement files were
well kept, and all procurement documents from the requests for expressions of interest to the provisional
reports of the acceptance of works and goods were available and easily accessible. Overall, the project
implementation manual was, thus, well adapted to the needs and capacities of the users.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


·        Timing is very important. The project came at a time when the government was toying with the
idea of decentralization and people's participation for community development, but did not know how to
put it into action.

·        Timely availability of fund at the grassroot level is important for implementing sub-project
activities.

·        It is important to be patient when working at community level, where people lack knowledge and
skills. Building their capacity to improve skills and understand procedures is time consuming.

·        In a community development project, capacity building should be given to district council and local
population upfront, so that they can start project activities soon after effectiveness.

·        When the Bank is flexible, willing to take risks, and repose trust and confidence on people at grass
roots level, they become empowered and capable of executing activities themselves with sufficient cost
effectiveness

·        Government commitment and ownership of the project were important factors in the success of the
project. The project also demonstrated that with good governance, transparency, and willingness, the
government will be able to make incredible achievements.

·        Having a strong and efficient team with dedicated national staff at PCMU level played a major role
in the success of the project

·        The project demonstrated its relevance and applicability for the country's socio-economic
development




                                                     - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Pamphile Kantabaze (ICR TTL)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Antoinette Kamanzi (Program Assistant)

B. List of Task Managers/Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(i) Markus Kostner (Lead Social Development Specialist)
(ii) Susan Opper (Senior Education Specialist)
(iii) Toni Kayonga (Task Team Leader)




                                                - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Openness of dialogue achieved in the          DECENTRALIZATION                    Compared to the status at the project launch,
Community Development Committees of                                               achievement of outcome indicators was
participating communes.                       PARTICIPATION                       deemed highly satisfactory. Open dialogue
                                                                                  between communities and local governments
Extent of transparency and accountability     SOCIAL CAPITAL                      demonstrated much progress in
within the local decision making process of                                       decentralization and participation. Through
participating communes (share information                                         elected committees, communities are now
regularly with the population, including on                                       empowered to design, implement, and
implementation progress and CDC accounts,                                         monitor progress of district's action plans,
etc).                                                                             even hire and fire staff in charge of
                                                                                  sub-project implementation. This contributes
Level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with                                       much to strengthening social capital. CDC
community-level project outcomes.                                                 members are highly satisfied with capacity
                                                                                  building programs they have benefited from
                                                                                  the project, and are proud of consequents
                                                                                  results as compared to non-CRDP
                                                                                  neighboring districts. Overall, beneficiaries
                                                                                  appreciate very positively being consulted
                                                                                  and involved in decision-making processes.
Replicability of the project activities on a  Supported by the population,        MINALOC recommended other projects
wider scale:                                                                      under its supervision to follow CRDP
                                                                                  approach. CDF has adapted its operational
                                                                                  manual based on CRDP's framework.




Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1a. Number of sub-projects financed and                                           625 Income Generating Sub-Projects
executed.                                                                         300 Infrastructure Sub-Projects
                                                                                  71 capacity building sub-projects addressing
                                                                                  about 9000 beneficiaries.
1b. Percent of funds disbursed according to 75%                                   96%
community development plan
2a. Number of rounds of training provided to 4 themes foreseen for development    17, of which 4 common subjects for all
CDC members                                                                       districts and 13 specific to each district's
                                                                                  needs.
2b. Percentage of proposed sup-projects       90%                                 Data not available
approved by CDCs.
2c. Rate of sub-projects approved without     90%                                 Data not available
deviations.
2d. Level of beneficiary satisfaction with    Very High                           Very High
planning process.
3. Number of studies identified by Minaloc,                                       The government (Minaloc) has prepared an
relevant to general policy on decentralizaton                                     action plan for implementing the results of the
and participation                                                                 studies.
4a. Percentage of monitoring reports          90%                                 95%
submitted on time (end of quarter).
4b. Percentage of monitoring reports          Very High                           Very High
submitted on tme (end of quarter) with
required info.

1End of project




                                                               - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Community sub-projects                                       4.15             3.98            95.9
Equipment and materials                                      0.09             0.16           177.7
Training and consultants                                     0.45             1.92           426.6
Incremental operating costs                                  0.34             0.24            70.5

Total Baseline Cost                                          5.03             6.30
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.25
                        Total Project Costs                  5.28             6.30
                  Total Financing Required                   5.28             6.30


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         4.38          0.00         4.38
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.22)          (0.00)       (4.22)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.09         0.00          0.00         0.09
                                  (0.00)           (0.09)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.09)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.58          0.00         0.58
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.47)          (0.00)       (0.47)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.22          0.00         0.22
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.22)          (0.00)       (0.22)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.09         5.18          0.00         5.27
                                  (0.00)           (0.09)      (4.91)          (0.00)       (5.00)
2

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             2.07         3.80           0.00        5.87
                                  (0.00)          (2.00)       (3.00)         (0.00)       (5.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.36         0.00           0.00        0.36
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.06             0.01         0.00           0.00        0.07
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00


                                                - 19 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.06               2.44              3.80             0.00              6.30
                                           (0.00)             (2.00)            (3.00)            (0.00)           (5.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Community sub-projects          3.95         0.20         0.00        3.24         0.58       0.16       82.0     290.0      0.0
Equipment and materials         0.09         0.08         0.00        0.13         0.04       0.00       144.4     50.0      0.0
Training and consultants        0.45         0.00         0.00        1.45         0.47       0.00       322.2     0.0       0.0
Incremental operating           0.29         0.05         0.00        0.17         0.06       0.00       58.6     120.0      0.0
costs
Unallocated                     0.22         0.25         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/96                     4    SOCIAL POLICY
                                             SPECIALIST,HR ECONOMIST,
                                             RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST,
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST

              5/97                      4    SOCIAL POLICY
                                             SPECIALIST,HR ECONOMIST,
                                             RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST,
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST

              8/97                      2    HR ECONOMIST,
                                             PARTICIPATION SPECIALIST

              11/97                     2    HR ECONOMIST,
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              2/28/98                   8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1); LAWYER
                                             (1); PARTICIPATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              3/23/98                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              10/27/98                  5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL EVALUATION
                                             SPECIALIST(1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision
              04/23/1999                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SOCIAL EVALUATION
                                             SPECIALIST(1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);



                                              - 22 -

                                   DISBURSEMENT
                                   SPECIALIST (1)
               09/17/1999        3 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S    S
                                   OPERATIONS (1);
                                   PROCUREMENT (1)
               09/17/1999        3 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S    S
                                   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                   (1)
               06/22/2000        5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S    S
                                   DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                   OPERATIONS (1);
                                   PROCUREMENT (1);
                                   PARTICIPATION (1)
               10/27/2000        5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S    S
                                   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                   TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                   DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                   (1); FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST (1)
               03/05/2001        9 TTL, SR EDUC SPECIALST         HS    S
                                   (1); PROCUREMENT
                                   SPECIALIST, AFTQK (1);
                                   OPERATIONS SPECIALISTS
                                   (4); PARTICIPATION AND
                                   CAPACITY BLDG.
                                   SPECIALIST (1);
                                   ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                   (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                   OFFICER (1)
               10/24/2001        5 TTL, SR EDUC SPECIALST         HS    S
                                   (1); PROCUREMENT, AFTQK
                                   (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                   (2); DISBURSEMENT
                                   OFFICER (1)
               05/25/2002        6 SR EDUC SPECIALIST (1);        HS    S
                                   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                   IMPLEMENTATION SPECLST
                                   (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                   (1); FINANCIAL
                                   DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                   (1)

 ICR
               02/03             4 TTL, OPERATIONS
                                   OFFICER, GENDER
                                   SPECIALIST, LANGUAGE
                                   & PROGRAM ASSISTANT



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle       Actual/Latest Estimate



                                   - 23 -

                              No. Staff weeks      US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation           32.3                97.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                16.8                50.6
Supervision                         110.6              330.2
ICR                                  13.3                41.8
Total                               173.3              519.9




                                         - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;

2. Project Progress Reports;

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated May, 2003;

5. Project Appraisal Document for Rwandese Republic: Community Reintegration and Development
Project, dated October 15, 1998 (Report No.1 7776-RW); and

6. Report on the Mid-Term Review of the Project, dated March 24, 2001.




                                                 - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of the CRDP Final Evaluation Report
(Prepared by the Borrower)


Introduction. The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a report on a project's completion.
Normally, this report is produced within six months after the close of the project. The case of this
Community Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP) is different, since a new project is being
readied, and preparation of a project that follows a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) must be based on
lessons learned from the earlier experience. The ICR has three main objectives: (i) to examine the
project's objectives, design, execution and the experience gained, (ii) to evaluate the performance of the
Government of Rwanda the (borrowing country) during the project's implementation and execution, with
particular emphasis on the lessons learned, applicable to the future, and (iii) to evaluate the performance of
the World Bank (donor) and that of the Government of Rwanda (the borrowing country) during the
project's preparation and execution, again with particular emphasis on the lessons learned. This ICR is
presented in two parts: the report from the Bank and the report from the Government.

The person responsible for preparing the report for the World Bank is Mr. Pamphile Kantabaze, while the
Government's report was prepared by a team headed by Mr. Alexis Dukundane (Director of Planning and
Coordination of Local Development for MINALOC). The team included an agent from the Ministry of
Local Government (Ministère de l'Administration Locale, de l'Information et des Affaires Sociales,
MINALOC) (Ms. Eliane Kayitesi), an agent from the Central Projects and External Finance Bureau
(CEPEX) (Mr. Edouard Kasumba), and the agents from the CRDP (Shyaka Bazatoha, Vincent Mukama,
Sufian Mutagoma and Emile Mutunzi).

This evaluation mainly consisted of (i) a reading of the project documents: Credit Agreement, Manual of
Procedures, Project Appraisal Document, Quarterly Reports, Annual Reports, etc., (ii) interviews with
people who had assumed responsibilities during project preparation and execution, as well as the partners
who had an interest in the project, (iii) visits to the districts/cities and the Community Development
Committees (CDC) that handled the financing, and (iv) the drafting of the report.

    1. Assessment of development objectives and design and of quality at entry

1.1. Introduction. In a country where the centralization of authority has presented an obstacle to
community participation in local poverty reduction efforts and has led to dramatic sociopolitical
consequences, such as the genocide, the community development approach seemed to be the most
promising avenue to ensure a brighter future for Rwanda and its people.




                                                        - 28 -

1.2. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) . The Bank planned to focus its participation on four main
objectives: (i) Revitalization of the rural economy; (ii) Investment in the development of human resources
and capacity building; (iii) Investment in infrastructure; and (iv) Reform of the regulatory, tax and
political frameworks. These topics were considered vital for the country's sustainable growth and were
also important for both short-term reintegration of refugees and long-term social and economic
development.

1.3. Targeted problems . Support the Government's actions to experiment with participatory methods to
turn the Community Solidarity Fund (CSF) into a viable and autonomous body, by emphasizing: (i)
Capacity strengthening at the central and local levels; (ii) Institutionalization of community-based
procurement and disbursement mechanisms;             and (iii) Implementation of transparent financial
management procedures at the local level.

1.4. Original objective and indicators. "To show that reintegration and community development are
possible through a process of government decentralization and community involvement."

The project aimed to: (i) Assist newly repatriated refugees and other vulnerable groups through a process
of reintegration and community development; (ii) Strengthen the capacity of the local population and the
local and national governments to draft and implement community development programs.

Indicators:
(a) Decentralization or the transfer of decision-making and budgetary powers from the central to the local
    level;
(b) Participation or partnership between the local government and the local population in identifying
    needs, and in project planning and execution and related activities;
(c) Social capital or trust and cooperation between the local governments and the people.

1.5. Original components

1.5.1.    Community initiatives. Financing of US$270,000 per commune (now district/city after
administrative restructuring in the context of decentralization) split up over three years,      for:    (a)
Socioeconomic infrastructure subprojects, such as rehabilitation and the construction of health clinics,
schools and roads; (b) Income-generating subprojects; (c) Capacity building subprojects (training,
transport, communication, renovation of office space and office hardware).

1.5.2. Institution and capacity building. (a) Participatory assessments; (b) Training: Accelerated
Participatory Research Method (APRM), organizational management, project management, financial
management, environmental management and dispute resolution.

1.5.3. Studies: with a view to better understanding the concepts of decentralization and participation from
        the standpoint of the role the community plays in socioeconomic development.

1.5.4. Project coordination and monitoring: Equipment, materials, supplies and operating expenses,
        two external evaluations and independent yearly audits.

Ø       These components matched the desired objectives and were within the reach of the management
capabilities of the project coordination unit.




                                                   - 29 -

1.6. Project quality at entry. Taking into account the targeted sector problems: centralization of
authority, limited capacity at the local level, limited participation in the drafting and execution of
development programs, the dramatic sociopolitical and economic consequences of the war and the
genocide, and taking the strategies of the Government and the Bank into account, the objectives
assigned to the project were sufficiently clear, realistic and significant to contribute toward resolving
the present day problems. Nonetheless, there were are few deficiencies worth noting:

Ø        Insufficient financing was planned for the project given the magnitude of the country's problems at
the time. This resulted from the very nature of the project, it being an LIL.
Ø        Planning of the activities did not account for preceding actions, such as planning and capacity
building (training of people and local administrative institutions, drafting of development plans and action
plans by local communities), as if these activities would take place in no time. This warranted the delays in
the initial disbursements, particularly in regard to infrastructure, where the first subprojects did not start
until July 2000, whereas the project was initiated in 1998.
Ø        The drafting of the project architecture did not sufficiently integrate all levels of the administrative
structure (vertical and horizontal). In fact, the roles of the various provincial, district/city, sector and unit
services, and even those of the various technical ministries, in implementing, following up and evaluating
the project, were poorly defined from the outset. This lapse was the source of various frictions between the
CDCs and the other bodies mentioned above, since the operational relationships between these different
bodies had not yet been properly grasped.

    2. Achievement of objectives and outputs

The achievement of objectives was very satisfactory, given the prevailing situation in the country (massive
return of refugees, impoverishment of the countryside, distrust between segments of society and between
the people and the government).

This is borne out by the following three indicators: Decentralization, Participation and Social Capital,
and by the fact that open dialogue concerning self-reliant development was initiated within the CDCs and
between the community and the local government.

Some examples are as follows:

(a) The CDCs met and discussed the problems in their districts and managed to reach agreements on
    priority activities to be undertaken, taking the environment and the window of opportunity into account
    (e.g., the CDCs frequently agreed to reallocate funds given the unexpected course of events).
(b) A major step was taken in decentralizing decision-making and in taking on and participating in the
    drafting and execution of development budgets and procurement procedures in a transparent manner
    (plans of action and financial reports are discussed in committee and posted at the CDC offices).
(c)      The institutional beneficiaries (the CDCs, the executive committee, technicians and councils) were
very pleased with the levels reached in such a short time, in regard to organizational capacity building and
financial management. Although the public was content with the results achieved, the feeling is that
enormous obstacles still need to be overcome in relation to acknowledged needs.

(d) In regard to levels attained in the decentralization process at the national level, and given the project's
    success in the participating districts and cities, whose needs greatly resembled those of other districts
    and cities that already had functioning administrative structures at the project's outset, the ability to
    transpose project activities on a greater scale would be beneficial.


                                                       - 30 -

This can be seen, by way of example, in the policy option taken by the Rwandan Government in the
institutionalization of the Community Development Fund (CDF), which used the results of the CRDP to
draft its operations manual.

2.1. Outcome by component

As spelled out in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the project components applied to
macroeconomic policy, particularly through income-generating subprojects, capacity building subprojects
(training, transport, communications, office and equipment renovation) and socioeconomic infrastructure
subprojects that were submitted and funded in the framework of the CRDP.

The component also applied to sector policies, particularly those relating to decentralization, community
development and resettlement, with the project serving as a significant tool in their drafting and
implementation. In addition, the project made a strong contribution to institutional development, through
the participatory preparation of community development plans and training (APRM, organizational
management, project management, financial management, environment and conflict management) that were
offered to technicians and local elected representatives

Nonetheless, although this institutional development had an effect on all levels of administration, it was
noted that the district/city CDCs got much more out of it, to the detriment of other administrative bodies at
different levels. Therefore, in the future, more insistence should be placed on capacity building at other
administrative levels (units, sectors, district/city, province and national), without neglecting civil society
and private sector components, such as local businesses, cooperatives and NGOs.

Despite the above comments, the outcome of all project components was generally classified as very
satisfactory, except for the study component, which was only satisfactory, since only one study--on "the
extent to which environmental factors were considered by communities and local government in the choice
and execution of subprojects"--was carried out and taken into consideration in the project's
implementation.

Clearly, other studies are being prepared, such as on Coordination of Community Development, the
installation of services in voluntarily reorganized villages, tax decentralization, micro-finance, social
assessment, technical assessment of the new project and the institutional assessment of partner institutions,
the results of which will be taken into consideration in the new Community Development and
Decentralization Project (CDDP), which is likely to replace the CRDP.

Furthermore, it is worth underlining that the "income-generating project" subcomponent, although
achieving satisfactory results in view of the situation of extreme poverty and the level of dependency
prevalent at the time, needs to be reviewed, taking into account the results of the study on micro-finance,
which, among other things, should specify the role of the Government in a system of financing
income-generating projects for very poor populations without access to traditional systems of credit.


The fact that there were delays in the execution of a good number of socioeconomic infrastructure projects
also needs mentioning, a result of the fact that local businesses and organizations lacked sufficient capacity
for these activities. Capacity building should have been planned for the government institutions' other
partners within the private sector and civil society.




                                                        - 31 -

2.2. Impact on institutional development

The significance of the impact on institutional development was especially discernible in the improvements
the project brought to capacity building in the participating districts and cities in relation to autonomous
management of human and financial resources, procurement capacity and the capacity for public
participation, particularly, alongside the authorities, in the identification of their needs, and the drafting and
implementation of action plans.

This answers the project's concern for reestablishing mutual trust between the people and the
administrative authorities. It is also worth underlining that the CDF operations manual was also inspired
by the experiences of the CRDP, particularly in the area of financial management.

3. Major factors affecting implementation and outcome

3.1. Challenges facing the Government and the Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU):

Ø         The level of the population's and the various authorities' acceptance of the concepts of
decentralization;
Ø         Coexistence of centralization and the desire for decentralization in a country where centralized
authority has long been an obstacle to the public's participation in the decision-making process in matters
of concern to them;
Ø         The capacity of businesses and civil society in general (limited organizational, financial, technical
and professional capacity, to name a few);
Ø         Spirit of partnership (not yet sufficiently developed) between the public sector, civil society and the
private sector;
Ø         Contribution of beneficiaries (depending on the nature of the subproject and the community
involved; but also on dependency habits acquired under the previous administrations characterized by the
spirit of a welfare state, and even the habits acquired during the period of humanitarian response after the
war);
Ø         Preparation of training modules for CDC members with varying levels of education (e.g.
Maraba/Save, where semi-illiterates and university professors coexisted within the same body);
Ø         Novelty and inexperience with the institution of procurement both at the local and national levels;
Ø         Inexperience of the decentralized structures in regard to preparation, monitoring and evaluation of
subprojects and in regard to handling procurement procedures;

3.2. Factors under the Government's control

Ø         Restructuring the decentralized entities (from commune to district), accompanied by:

     (i) The increase in the beneficiary population from 438,011 to a total of 820,692 inhabitants;
     (ii) New structures requiring a level of preparation;
     (iii) Planning that did not meet the new realities;

Ø          The slow decentralization of the National Tender Board (NTB);

3.3. Factors under the control of the implementing agency (PCMU)

Ø         Capacity and compliance of PCMU staff: disbursements, follow-up, monitoring and evaluation, as
well as technical preparation of reports;


                                                       - 32 -

Ø         Experience gained from the pilot communes;
Ø         Synergies/exchange of experience with other projects from the Ministry of Local Government
(MINALOC), the Community Development Fund (CDF), Local Governance Initiatives (LGI), the
Cyangugu Good Governance Support Program (Programme Cadre d'Appui à la Bonne
Gouvernance/Cyangugu, PCA/C) and the Gitarama Community Development Support Program
(Programme d'Appui au Développement Communautaire/Gitarama, PADEC).

3.4. Costs and financing

3.4.1. Special account ceiling: The initial cap on the special account was insufficient to meet the
commitments undertaken with the participating communities. The requirement for making an advance
payment equal to 90 days upon execution of the contract with the CDC could not be met with a ceiling of
US$100,000. A more modest payment had to be made, and the Credit Agreement had to be amended to
obtain a higher ceiling. These ceilings should accordingly be calculated with more care while the project is
being prepared so as to avoid such problems.

3.4.2. SDR/US Dollar exchange rate: The exchange rate between special drawing rights (SDRs) and the
US dollar has been unfavorable to the former, dropping from 1.35 to 1.24 with a mean of about 1.28.
During project preparation, participating communes expected funding equal to about US$5 million,
whereas it ultimately did not extend beyond US$4.6 million. Districts that had planned activities budgeted
for US$270,000 only received US$256,000. The loan should therefore be denominated in real currencies.

3.4.3. Disbursement delays: The disbursements were delayed, mainly due to the multiplicity and distance
of the sources of clearance. The Bank does not consider money sent to the decentralized entities to be spent
until they have sent evidence to the PCMU accountant. Accordingly the procedural manuals need to be set
up in such a way that the donor (the World Bank) will be unable to consider the money to have cleared only
after the PCMU has deposited it in the accounts of the CDCs, warranting it by this transfer.

3.4.4. No objections: The "no objections" issue poses practical problems for the decentralized
subprojects because of the applicant's distance from the party responsible for issuing the no objection, not
to mention the obstacle of language and socio-cultural differences. It would therefore be better if the
procedural manuals were flexible enough to allow donor no objections to be decentralized to the level of the
Country Manager and his staff.

     4. Sustainability

The Government's commitment to the process of decentralization ensures the institutional sustainability of
the project actions. Institutional capacity building in financial and administrative management also help
ensure long-term viability. Nonetheless, in light of the current financial and economic situation of the
decentralized entities, their capacities need to be strengthened in this area so they will be capable of
ensuring this long-term financial and economic viability.

4.1. Sustainability rating

(i) Government commitment: the commitment of the Rwandan Government is assured by the laws,
      policies and strategies for implementing decentralization and community development;
(ii) Institutional efficiency: administrative and community structures have been established and
      strengthened;
(iii) Economic, technical, financial and environmental viability: viability is assured by local planning


                                                       - 33 -

     capacity for taking the sustainability of completed subprojects into account, and by the
     Community-Based Groups' commitment to managing subprojects, by support from the technical
     ministries and support from the new project under preparation;
(iv) Social impact and local participation: these are measured by the level of participation of the different
     partners in the achievement of the subprojects, the sense of ownership and the restructuring of the
     environment through community-based groups around shared interests;
(v) Incentives for participants to sustain the project: demonstrated by the fact that they are involved in
     identifying and achieving the subprojects, and particularly, by their feelings of ownership in the
     project's achievements;
(vi) Assumption of management and upkeep costs for sustaining the action: this is assured by the
     existence of the Community Development Fund (CDF) at the district and city levels, the assumption of
     these costs in the district and city budgets, as well as in the budgets of the technical ministries, not to
     mention the existence of technical capacities within the Community-Based Groups (CBG).

Based on the factors listed above, the project's sustainability is highly likely.



4.2. Transition arrangements to regular operation after the project

4.2.1. Arrangements for sustainability
Ø       Recommendations that the project experts have left with the districts/cities, the CBGs and the other
partners for the technical management of the works completed, and particularly, in relation to the six
sustainability assessment criteria in paragraph 4.1;
Ø       The district budget, the CDF and support from the technical ministries, the provisions of which
include upkeep and maintenance of the work in question;
Ø       The CDCs, whose coordination capacities have been strengthened;
Ø       The new project (CDDP), which will continue to strengthen capacities in the same districts and
cities.

4.2.2. Indicators
Ø       Existence of recommendations by subproject or subproject group at the CDCs, the CBGs and the
other partners, which refer particularly to the six sustainability rating criteria in paragraph 4.1;
Ø       Budget estimates for the districts/cities and the technical ministries containing budget headings for
upkeep and maintenance of the work;
Ø       The existence of yearly action plans and the narrative and financial reports of the CDCs;
Ø       The capacity-strengthening reports of the CDCs by the new CDDP.

The monitoring and evaluation system for these indicators is already in place and operating through
community social control, and through monitoring, evaluation and control carried out by the CDCs, the
technical ministries and the World Bank.

4.2.3. It is essential that the Bank perform a follow-up evaluation on these indicators through its usual ex
post evaluation, and this needs to be included in the monitoring, evaluation and oversight activities planned
for the new CDDP.

    5. Bank and Borrower's Performance

5.1. Bank




                                                      - 34 -

Ø        The Bank acted in accordance with its own Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
Ø        It acted by aiding the Government to resolve current problems, and it followed the strategy the
Government had adopted for resolving problems through decentralization.
Ø        Monitoring and evaluation proceeded as planned and needed advice was provided.
Ø        The quality of the staff performing monitoring and evaluation was ample.
Ø        Given the gravity of the problems at the time, the Bank and the Government felt it was wise to
finance an LIL to get a better grasp of the problems and to set up mechanisms for finding solutions to the
difficulties the country was facing.

Considering the above comments, the Bank's performance was satisfactory.

5.2. Borrower

Even though there were some small delays in the disbursement of counterpart funds due to problems with
the availability of ready cash, which, however, did not hinder the project's progress, the Rwandan
Government was able to meet its commitments for implementing the project, above all, through its political
commitment to decentralization.

It should also be emphasized that since 2003, the Rwandan Government has made the availability of
counterpart funds for the projects one of its major priorities.

Although the staff did not participate in preparing the project, it demonstrated its capacity and dedication,
particularly in regard to financial management, including timely disbursements (96.5 percent by April 11,
2003), follow-up, monitoring and evaluation, technical preparation of reports, etc., and it continued to do
so throughout project execution.

The borrower's performance was highly satisfactory, considering the preceding comments.

    6. Lessons learned

Ø        The proper definition and separation of the roles of the various partners drafting project documents
simplifies project implementation and the joint monitoring of these partners.
Ø        To ensure that project achievements are lasting and sustainable, the various partners in the project
(community, civil society, private sector and public sector) require gradual strengthening of institutional
capacity (particularly technical, organizational, material and financial) at all administrative levels (unit,
sector, district/city, province and national).
Ø        Providing for participation of the beneficiary population in the entire process, including project
identification, preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project activities promotes a sense
of ownership in the project achievements by the population and ensures their sustainability.
Ø        The level of the public's participation in identifying their needs and in seeking solutions has shown
that the community is capable of planning for its development while taking account of its environment.
Ø        The initial ceiling on the special account needs to be adjusted to reflect real needs observed at the
time of project/program preparation.
Ø        The procedural manuals need to be developed in such a way that the donor will be unable to
consider the money to have cleared only after the PCMU has deposited it in the accounts of the
districts/cities.
Ø        The procedural manuals should be flexible enough to allow donor no objections to be decentralized
to the level of the Country Manager and his staff.
Ø        Considering the experience acquired by the participating districts/cities in financial management,


                                                      - 35 -

evidenced by a growing capacity for absorption (e.g., Maraba, which could have used nearly US$540,000,
the funds that were intended for the former communes of Maraba and Mbazi before they were
consolidated), and the size of the needs as compared to the financial means, it would be desirable if the
ceiling for the districts/cities was revised upward in the CDDP.
Ø        Decentralization in decision-making as well as in financial management, procurement procedures
and planning has shown that the capacity for absorption increases with the decentralized process for
implementation and management.
Ø        The experience from the CRDP has also shown that the submission of technical bids meeting the
criteria in the bidding specifications does not necessarily guarantee the technical and organizational
capacities that one would expect from the company submitting them. A system of monitoring and technical
inspection should therefore be set up to oversee the completion of the works, without neglecting technical
and civic capacity strengthening (professional rules of conduct) for the private sector and civil society, in
both the future CDDP and in other CRDP-type programs and projects.

The lessons drawn from the CRDP experience allow us to conclude that reintegration and community
development are possible through a process of government decentralization and community involvement.

    7. Additional information: CRDP and gender

The project originated during a period immediately following the war and the genocide. Because
of the urgency of the problems and the unusually high number of vulnerable parties, gender
considerations were not a priority in the project planning. Nonetheless, the project gradually
adapted to the need to incorporate the notion of gender in its activities within the districts, in light
of its importance in planning for more sustainable development (female participation of 28 percent
in the training component and 63 percent in the income-generating project component). At the
start, the project worked in close collaboration with the pilot CDCs, in which men and women
were proportionally well-represented. With the elections of members to the Councils and the
Development Committees, female representation dwindled within the CDCs, the privileged
partners in the project. This situation is largely explained by the traditional culture, in which men
serve as the social and political representatives for the population.

The project should develop mechanisms for collaboration that include structures other than the CDC and
the APC. In view of the preparation of a new project, a few recommendations are worth noting:

    1. The preparation of the new project should strive for affirmative actions toward women, to
    contribute to their greater integration in development projects;
    2. The project should develop mechanisms for participation through the organizational structures and
         other women's groups;
    3. It should also develop a reference system for collecting statistical data that has enough detail to
         allow tracking of trends in male and female participation at all project and subproject stages
         through a system of regular reports;
    4. These report templates should be furnished to the partners involved in project monitoring and
         evaluation to ensure that nothing is forgotten or omitted, and they should be based on performance
         indicators.




                                                     - 36 -

LIST OF ACRONYMS

APC         Administrative Policy Committee
APRM        Accelerated Participatory Research Method
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBG         Community-Based Groups
CDC         Community Development Committee
CDDP        Community Development and Decentralization Project
CDF         Community Development Fund
CEPEX       Central Projects and External Finance Bureau
CRDP        Community Reintegration and Development Project
CSF         Community Solidarity Fund
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
LIL         Learning and Innovation Loan
MINALOC     Ministère de l'Administration Locale, de l'Information et des Affaires Sociales
            (Ministry of Local Government)
NTB         National Tender Board
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PADEC       Programme d'Appui au Développement Communautaire /Gitarama (Gitarama
            Community Development Support Program)
PCA/C       Programme Cadre d'Appui à la Bonne Gouvernance/Cyangugu (Cyangugu Good
            Governance Support Program)
PCMU        Project Coordination Management Unit




                                           - 37 -

- 38 -

