Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1 7776-RW
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION)
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 15, 1998
Country Department 9
Africa Region
Human Development 4
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Franc Rwandais (FRw)
FRw 303 = US$ I (average for 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              African Development Bank
AGETIP           Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet Publique
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CBG              Community-Based Group
CDA             Community Development Agent
CDC              Community Development Committee
CRDP            Community Reintegration and Development Project
CSF              Commune Solidarity Fund
DCU             Decentralization Coordination Unit
FRw             Rwanda Franc
FY               Fiscal year
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
IDA             International Development Association
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development
LIL              Learning and Innovation Loan
MIGEFASO        Ministry for Gender, Family and Social Affairs
MINECOFIN       Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MININTER         Ministry of the Interior, Communal Development and Resettlement
NGO             Non-governmental organization
PCMU            Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
PNAS             Programme National d'Actions Sociales
PRA              Participatory Rural Appraisal
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Nils 0. Tcheyan
Sector Manager: Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader: Markus Kostner



Rwanda
Community Reintegration and Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 9
Date: October 15, 1998                                           Task Team Leader: Markus Kostner
Country Director: Nils 0. Tcheyan                                Sector Manager: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: RW-PE-51931          Sector: SA                        Program Objective Category: PA
Lending Instrument: LIL         Program of Targeted Intervention:     [ ]    Yes    [x]      No
Project financing data       [] Loan           [x] Credit        [I] Guarantee      [  Other
Amount: US$ 5.00 m / SDR 3.70 m
Proposed terms:               [     Multicurrency   [     Single currency, specify:
Grace period (years): 10 [I     Standard        []    Fixed             []    LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$ m):
Source                     Local                 Foreign                 Total
Govemment                              0.07                                          0.07
Beneficiaries                          0.21                     -                    0.21
IDA                                    4.91                   0.09                   5.00
Total           5.19                   0.09                   5.28
Borrower: Rwandese Republic
Responsible agency: Ministry of the Interior, Communal Development and Resettlement
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$ m):                     FY99          FY00          FY01
Annual       1.76          1.62          1.62
Cumulative       1.76          3.38          5.00
Project implementation period:        3 years
Expected effectiveness date:          October 1, 1998
Expected completion date:             September 30, 2001
Expected closing date:                March 31, 2002



Rwanda
Community Reintegration and Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective 1
1. Project development objective
2. Key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context 2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary 3
1. Selection of participating communes
2. Project components
3. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
4. Benefits and target population
5. Institutional structure
6. Implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale 8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Reasons for using a learning and innovation loan
3. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
4. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
5. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
6. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses 13
1. Financial
2. Institutional
3. Social
4. Environmental assessment
5. Participatory approach



F. Sustainability and Risks 14
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Main Loan Conditions 16
1. Agreements to be reached during negotiations
2. Conditions for approval by Bank management
3. Effectiveness conditions
H. Readiness for Implementation 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies 17
Annexes
Annex 1    Project Design Summary  19
Annex 2    Project Concept and Organigram   21
Chart A   Decentralization and Participation: The Two Dimensions of the Community
Reintegration and Development Project
Chart B   Organigram (Generic Community Development Committee)
Annex 3    Estimated Project Costs  23
Table A  Disbursement Schedule
Annex 4    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements  25
Table A   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 5    Timetable for Consultants, Monitoring and Training  31
Annex 6    Project Processing Budget and Schedule  33
Annex 7    Documents in Project File  35
Annex 8    Statement of Loans and Credits  37
Annex 9    Rwanda at a Glance  39
Annex 10   Map of Rwanda  41
ii



Rwanda
Community Reintegration and Development Project
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective
A prolonged period of armed conflict since 1990, culminating in the war and genocide of 1994,
highlighted and heightened the structural contradictions and failures of an already unsustainable
economic system. Since coming to power in July 1994, and in particular since the massive return of
refugees in 1996/97, the Government of National Unity faces regional security issues that remain a
menace to peaceful development. Nevertheless, national reconciliation and decentralization are central
themes in the Government's agenda, which recognizes that persistent efforts must be made to reach out to
communities and social groups in order to build an environment of partnership and mutual trust.
Building on these themes, the project development objective is to demonstrate that community
reintegration and development can effectively take place through a process of government
decentralization and community participation.' To that end the project will seek: (a) to assist returnees
and other vulnerable groups through a process of community-based reintegration and development; and
(b) to strengthen the capacity of local communities and the administration at the communal and national
levels for the implementation of development projects.
2. Key performance indicators
Community-based development can only be sustainable in the longer-term if and when the local
population is fully integrated in project planning and execution. The success of the project will, thus, be
judged by the degree of this integration through: (a) decentralization, i.e. the transfer of decision-making
and expenditure authority from the central to the community level; (b) participation, i.e. a partnership
between the commune administrations and the local population around sectoral planning and project
implementation; and (c) the level of social capital, i.e. trust and cooperation within and between local
government and the local population.2
Key performance indicators will be: (a) openness of the dialogue achieved in the Community
Development Committees (CDCs) of the participating communes; (b) extent of transparency and
accountability within the local decision-making process of the participating communes; (c) number of
sub-project activities successfully completed; (d) level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with community-
A "commune" is the third administrative level of government, below the central government and the
prefecture. It in turn comprises "sectors" which contain "cells". The lowest level, based on the concept of the
household, is the "nyumbakumi". A commune is administered by a burgomaster appointed by the President of the
Republic, and staff from sectoral ministries. There are currently 154 communes in Rwanda. The term "community"
refers to the population living in a commune as well as to the interaction, both formal and informal, between local
population groups.
2      Social capital encompasses organizations, networks, and unwritten mores and rules that facilitate
coordinated action and enable people to undertake cooperative ventures for mutual advantage. It inspires trust and
facilitates investment. As with other forms of capital, social capital can easily be eroded by civil conflict, leading to
fear, mistrust and a lack of capacity (organizational and otherwise). Hence, building trust and creating capacity are
key in rebuilding a society and economy after conflict.
I



2      Community Reintegration and Development Project
level project outcomes; and (e) assessment regarding the replicability of the project activities on a wider
scale. (See annex 1 for the project's design summary and annex 2 on the concept of decentralization and
participation as the project's horizontal and vertical dimensions.)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project
CAS document number: 17478-RW                       Date of latest CAS discussion: April 7, 1998
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) proposes that the Bank focus its efforts on several themes,
including: (a) the revitalization of the rural economy; (b) investment in human resource development and
capacity building; (c) selected infrastructure investments; and (d) support to policy and regulatory
reforms. These themes are central to the sustainable growth of the country and will facilitate the short-
term reintegration of refugees as well as longer-term social and economic development.
The project is consistent with the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the Executive
Directors on April 7, 1998. It uses a creative approach to address the special problems of the country and
to enhance institutional capacities especially at the local level. It targets the social and economic
reintegration of refugees and vulnerable groups and at the same time builds local mechanisms for
revitalizing rural economies through infrastructure and income-generating sub-projects, thereby placing
strong emphasis on the development of human resources. The project is one of the CAS's key lending
operations.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Projects targeting development at the communal level have a long history in Rwanda. Already in 1977,
the former government initiated a Commune Development Fund to (a) effect equalization among
communes in order to reduce territorial disparities and (b) give communes access to credit, either in the
form of direct loans or by establishing a Guarantee Fund to enable communes to borrow from banks. The
Commune Development Fund never took much root in the communities because of its centralized and
top-down approach. It was replaced in 1988 by an Intercommunal Development Credit which in turn was
abolished in 1990.
In 1991, the former government created the Commune Solidarity Fund (CSF) to start a new effort for
community development. This effort was interrupted by the war of 1994. The approach has been taken up
by the Government of National Unity which is currently revitalizing and revising theCSF. The principles
of the CSF are: (a) sustainability of communal finances; (b) credibility of the local administration; (c)
transparent management of resources; (a) budget support to the communes; (e) community responsibility
for the entire project cycle; and (f) assistance to community-based groups for accessing micro-credit. The
reformed CSF would be managed independently of Government by a General Assembly comprising all
burgomasters.
The Government actively promotes decentralization and participation for reintegration and development.
MININTER's sectoral policy paper stresses the need to make the local administrative structures
responsible for the management of local affairs (decentralization) and to closely involve the population in
the management of its own affairs (participation). The mechanism envisaged therein are elections of local
officials at the cellule and sector levels. The project applies this mechanism in selecting representatives to



Community Reintegration and Development Project    3
the Community Development Committees (CDCs). TheCDC will in turn ensure participation of the local
population in a decision-making process which is complementary to the local administration.
Institutional capacities remain an important constraint for the short-term operationalization of this
approach especially at the local level. Nonetheless, a basic structure is in place which - with sufftcient
capacity building - promises great potential for effective decentralization and participation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
In a country where centralized authority essentially impeded the effective fight against poverty at the
community level and led to dramatic socio-political consequences, the community development approach
initiated by Government appears the most promising avenue to lead Rwanda and its people to a brighter
future. The project will, therefore, support the Government by piloting methods for a long-term and
autonomous CSF. It focuses on (a) strengthening capacities at central and local levels; (b) initiating
community-based procurement and disbursement mechanisms; and (c) developing transparent financial
management procedures at the community level.
The project rests on the assumption that individuals know best how to use resources to satisfy their needs.
Likewise, local communities are in a better position to identify their needs and corresponding actions than
higher administrative echelons. Furthermore, it will be difficult to effectively coordinate all activities
sponsored by Government, bilateral and multilateral donors and implementing partners. By transferring
the decision-making to the community level, duplication of efforts can effectively be minimized.
The project is based on the principle of autonomous community development that can be sustained in the
long-run when external resources may be scarcer. The project will, therefore, support an internalized
implementation structure that fosters a partnership between local administration and local community.
The key elements of the overall strategy, thus, focus on decentralization (political strategy), financial
autonomy (economic strategy), and partnership (social strategy).
C. Project Description Summary
The project is an integral part of the Emergency Reintegration and Reconstruction Program developed by
the joint GovemmentlUNDP/World Bank assessment mission of December 1996 in response to the
massive return of refugees from Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It targets 12
vulnerable communes and comprises four components: (a) community initiatives in each of the
participating communes; (b) institution and capacity at the central and local levels; (c) studies; and (d)
project coordination and monitoring (see annex 3 for a detailed budget breakdown).
The project introduces an innovative implementation mechanism to nurture a partnership between the
community and the communal administration; to empower people to make choices; to decentralize
planning, project cycle management and financial management to the community level; and to create a
higher degree of self-reliance among the rural population. The project will not only help individuals and
groups but also bring life to the local economies and bring communities together around tangible
activities. Ultimately, the project serves as a comprehensive economic and social investment for a
peaceful future.



4      Community Reintegration and Development Project
1. Selection ofparticipating communes
The PCMU will be responsible for selecting, and replacing, participating communes on the basis of a
specific set of criteria, and according to the guidelines of the project implementation manual: the degree
of destruction by the war; the degree of local organizational density and capacity; the socio-economic
level of the commune; the willingness of the local administration to participate in the project; and the
availability of resources from other agencies. Other criteria for consideration comprise the size of the
commune, its economic potential, and the availability and capacity of partner agencies. Based on a socio-
economic profile of the selected communes, the PCMU will determine the annual funding envelop for
each of the participating communes.
2. Project components
i) Community initiatives. Each of the participating communes will receive on average approximately
US$ 215,000 over three years to be used for: (a) infrastructure sub-projects (such as the rehabilitation of
health centers, schools and roads); (b) income-generating sub-projects (for instance a livestock bank or
micro-project initiated by a local group); and (c) capacity building sub-projects (training, transport,
communication, and office rehabilitation and equipment). In addition, the CDC will receive about US$
35,000 per annum to cover the costs of partner agencies and local operating expenses. The communities
will develop one-year community development plans and decide upfront for each year the block
allocation for each of the three sub-project categories according to needs. This block allocation will be
reviewed during the year and adjusted, if necessary. The funds for sub-projects will cover capital
expenses only.
ii) Institution and capacity building. The project will finance participatory rural appraisals and training
activities to build local capacities for sustainable, self-reliant development. The training program will
include the following areas: (a) participatory rural appraisal methods; (b) organizational management; (c)
project management; (d) financial management (including procurement and contract administration); and
(e) environmental awareness and training. When and where appropriate, conflict resolution modules will
be incorporated into the training activities. Training activities will be undertaken at, and will benefit, the
national level (PCMU and other MININTER staff) and, with a particular focus, the community level
(CDC members, community-based groups, community development agents, etc.). The project will also
facilitate the regular exchange of experiences among participating communes.
iii) Studies. The project will finance studies to deepen the understanding of the concept of
decentralization and participation, as they relate to the community's role in socio-economic development.
Their results will feed into sector policy planning and project improvements as required.
iv) Project coordination and monitoring. The project will provide critical equipment, materials and
supplies to the PCMU as well as cover its operating costs to enable it to effectively carry out its
coordination and monitoring responsibilities. It will also finance two external evaluations (mid-term and
final) and annual external audits.



Community Reintegration and Development Project  5
Component                 Category          Cost ici.      % of     Bank-      % Bank-
Contingencies    Total   financing   financing
(US$ m)               (US$ m)
1. Community initiatives     Physical/institution      4.35        82.6       4.13        95
building
2. Institution and capacity  Institution building      0.38         7.1       0.38        100
building
3. Studies                   Institution building      0.02         0.3       0.02        100
4. Project coordination and  Project management        0.53         10.0      0.47        88
monitoring                                                   I
Total      5.27        100.0      5.00        95
3. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The Government is currently elaborating on the devolution of authority to the commune level through a
decentralization strategy. The CSF is the envisioned long-term approach, whereby communes will be
largely independent in their decision-making. The project supports the decentralization strategy and
operationalizes the decentralization concept of the CSF approach. Moreover, it responds to the
participation element of the sectoral strategy by closely involving the local population to ensure an
inclusive process at the community level.
4. Benefits and target population
The project will be demand-driven and respond to the specific needs as identified by the communities and
community-based groups. Hence, benefits will be provided in a number of sectors such as: (a) settlement;
(b) social infrastructure; (c). sustainable livelihoods; and (d) capacity building. Community-based groups
will be important partners in the implementation of the proposed project. Activities strengthening their
capacities will include, among others, (a) twinning arrangements; (b) training in methodologies of
participatory techniques that include identifying and quantifying in-kind and other resource requirements;
(c) training in project cycle, financial and organizational management (including monitoring and
evaluation); and (d) the identification of problems, needs and constraints as well as of resources and
participatory approaches that lead to their resolution.
The project will benefit the following target groups: (a) communal administrations and CDCs through
capacity building and enhanced fiscal decentralization; (b) community-based groups (such as women's
and credit groups, local cooperatives and other local associations) through capacity building and financial
assistance for income-generating sub-projects; and (c) the local population through participation in local
affairs and enhanced access to community infrastructure and services. Groups will be preferred for
implementing income-generating sub-projects because of simpler administration and monitoring
procedures as well as more effective social control mechanisms within a group.
Taking into account the severe demographic impact and gender imbalance resulting from the war and
genocide, preferential access of special vulnerable population groups (female-headed households
widows, homeless, orphans, etc.) will be an important element of consideration for the approval of
infrastructure sub-projects. These groups will also be particularly encouraged to participate in income-
generating sub-projects. The vulnerable groups will be identified by the communities using participatory
methods (such as wealth ranking).



6      Community Reintegration and Development Project
5. Institutional structure
Implementation will involve community members and the communal, prefectoral and national levels of
Government. The commune level will be the primary entry point of the proposed project. The central
decision-making body of the project will be the Community Development Committee (CDC) which will
be established by the existing communal councils with administrative and financial autonomy. Once
established, the CDC will adopt its rules of procedures, including replacement of members and re-
elections. The burgomaster will also play an important role, in particular regarding coordination with
similar governmental and nongovernmental activities.
The generic structure of the CDC will comprise members of the local administration (such the
burgomaster and 3-5 conseillers elected among themselves) and members elected by the local population
(two per sector, of which at least one women). The CDC will annually elect a President, a Treasurer and a
Secretary among its members. Members of the communal administration may not hold any of these
positions (see annex 2 for a generic framework).
The CDC may consist of (a) a management sub-committee and (b) an administration sub-committee.
Elections to the CDC and the two sub-committees will be held once a year. Each CDC will, however,
have the opportunity to adjust certain institutional elements and implementation arrangements to its
specific requirements during its inception meeting. In each commune, theCDC will employ a community
development agent (CDA) and a CDC accountant who will be responsible for assisting the CDC in all
technical and financial aspects of the project, respectively.
The prefectoral administrations will assist in the implementation of the proposed interventions. The
prefect's specific responsibilities include: (a) financial control and internal audit; (b) program and sub-
project monitoring; and (c) the provision of technical assistance upon request.
At the national level, a Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) in MININTER will, among
others, coordinate the activities country-wide; administer a management information system for
continuous monitoring of project implementation and impact; evaluate and approve community
development plans and sub-projects; and replenish and audit the funds at the communal level. The PCMU
will comprise a National Coordinator, an accountant and one project officer for each sub-project type as
well as support staff.
6. Implementation arrangements
The PRA method will be the tool of choice for all activities at the local level. During the initial year of
operation, the PCMU will contract (a team of) local consultants to build local PRA capacity (especially
the CDAs); sensitize the communities about the objectives and mechanisms of the project; and assist the
CDCs in the preparation of community development plans. Thereafter, PRA specialists will be contracted
to guide the participatory process at the local level.
The community development plans will contain: (a) a brief description of the community and the status of
its economy and social and economic infrastructure; (b) a phased and costed program of reintegration and
development activities (block allocation by sub-project type and local operating expenses) including a
working list of sub-projects, based on the needs expressed by the communities; and (c) a plan for the
implementation of the community development plan, including a disbursement schedule (financial plan)
and the expected participation of the community.



Community Reintegration and Development Project    7
The PCMU will verify whether: (a) the proposed activities reflect the communities' needs and
preferences and can be implemented in accordance with the time-table and disbursement schedule
included in the plan; (b) the plan allows for periodic adjustment in content, funding requirements and
implementation arrangements; and (c) the plan is within the development plan of the respective
prefecture. Following decision by the CDC and approval by the PCMU, a Grant Agreement will be
entered into between the PCMU and the CDC regarding the implementation of the plan and the activities
proposed therein.
Infrastructure and capacity-building sub-projects will be prepared by the CDC with the assistance of the
CDA and the respective chef de service. They will be reviewed by the PCMU, within the time frame
specified in the project implementation manual, to ensure that they are within the framework of the
relevant community development plan and have been appraised in accordance with the provisions of the
project implementation manual. The CDC may proceed with the formal approval of a sub-project only
with a positive evaluation by the PCMU.
Income-generating sub-projects will be prepared by a community-based group (CBG), with the
assistance of a partner agency if necessary, and be submitted to the CDC for its evaluation in accordance
with the criteria specified in the project implementation manual. The CDC may delegate to a sub-
committee the power to approve these sub-projects. A CDC may require a beneficiary to make financial
contributions - as determined by the CDC - to a community revolving fund as may be set up by the CDC,
once the sub-project starts generating income.
The CDC can contract a partner agency to assist beneficiaries in the preparation and implementation of
sub-projects. The selection of partner agencies will follow specific criteria, inter alia: the fulfillment of
legal and regulatory requirements; human and financial resources; accounting capacity; and demonstrated
experience in community-based development.
Monitoring will be one of the principal elements of the project cycle. The principal responsibility for
monitoring progress under the project will rest with the PCMU. At the commune level, theCDA and the
chefs de service will be the focal points. The prefects' offices will assist in monitoring the activities to
ensure that implementation proceeds according to the project's objectives and in line with the prefecture's
development plan. Standardized monitoring forms which include objectively verifiable indicators of
project performance will be included in the project implementation manual to facilitate monitoring and
situation analysis. Regarding the progress in project implementation, the PCMU could reprogram funds to
other communes if lags in one commune are the result of undue delays. Similarly, the CDC could
reallocate funds between the three sub-project categories on the basis of implementation effectiveness.
Evaluation: Two external evaluations will be contracted to independent consultants, at mid-term
(followed by the Bank's mid-term review) and at closing. They will be undertaken with the project
beneficiaries and partner agencies and follow a participatory method. The evaluations will focus on: (a)
the effectiveness of the arrangements and mechanisms to foster participatory development (participation);
(b) the achievements of the interventions financed by the project; and (c) the effectiveness of the
administrative arrangements and mechanisms, including contracting, procurement, disbursement,
accounting, auditing, and fund management (decentralization). The results of the evaluations will be used
to re-direct project implementation, if necessary, and guide the preparation of follow-up interventions.
Flow offunds: Given the requirement to have ready cash available at the local level, funds covering no
more than a 90-day period, will be periodically advanced from the PCMU's special account to the local
bank accounts of the 12 CDCs in accordance with Bank procedures applicable to 90-day advances. The



8      Community Reintegration and Development Project
CDC accounts will be separate from the accounts of the communal administration and will receive funds
from the special account only.
The initial advance will be made upon receipt and approval by the PCMU of an appropriately detailed
quarterly work plan and funding requirement report based on the confirmed disbursement schedule,
submitted by the CDCs. Each subsequent advance will be entirely contingent upon satisfactory
justification of the preceding period's advance with sufficient financial reporting to ensure that cost
overruns or unexecuted sub-projects are identified. A considerable effort will also be undertaken by the
PCMU to ensure disbursement is in accordance with Bank procedures, most importantly, applying the
correct disbursement percentage to avoid payment of local taxes.
Payments for eligible expenditures under sub-projects will be made by the CDC according to a
predetermined payment schedule. Unless beneficiaries have a bank account and adequate financial
management capabilities, payments incurred for income-generating sub-projects will be effected by the
CDC on behalf of the beneficiary. Such payments will be to the account of the supplier or partner agency
in accordance with contract payment terms. Detailed procedures and controls governing the use of this
disbursement mechanism will be included in the project implementation manual and in LOA's
disbursement letter (see annex 4 for procurement and disbursement procedures).
Financial management, accounting and internal and external auditing: Accounting and internal auditing
of all project-related activities will be undertaken by the PCMU at the central level and by the
Administration Sub-Committees at the local level. The Administration Sub-Committee will also annually
prepare an operating budget and a financial plan with cash-flow requirements (disbursement schedule).
Furthermore, financial monitoring of the CDC accounts will be undertaken as part of the ongoing
responsibilities of the prefect's office. Financial reports as they relate to the participating communes will
be regularly provided to the PCMU. Moreover, the PCMU will be responsible to contract annual external
audits which will follow international standards acceptable to the Bank to be done no later than six
months after the closing of the preceding year.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Socialfunds/social action programs/AGETIP. Social funds/social action programs have been increasingly
implemented since the late 1980s. While initially intended to create employment opportunities, the
emphasis has shifted to reaching the poor and to contributing to community well-being and social
cohesion. Social funds have an increasing focus on community participation in planning decision-making
and execution. When they are granted autonomy in management and flexibility in procurement and
disbursement, they have achieved impressive results in program implementation. Their main weakness
thus far has been lack of investment in local organizational capacity. Moreover, many social funds have
neglected arrangements for monitoring participation and assessing impact, casting doubts on their long-
term sustainability.
At any point in time, there are communities lying in various positions of the emergency-development
spectrum. A generalized approach that purposefully separates communities from government (central,
and largely also local) cannot do justice to the specific requirements of each individual community.
Moreover, despite their good track-record of producing results, these approaches cannot address the
overarching post-war need to build a partnership between government and its people. The very



Community Reintegration and Development Project    9
independence of social funds from government will not allow them to improve the institutional capacity
of the state and hence to make participation and decentralization work, i.e. the two critical means to
achieve the project's development objective. The same holds true for an AGETIP (Agence d'Execution
de Travaux d'Interet Publique) as independent executing agency for works of public interest.
Conversely, the project regards the local economy and society as a systemic whole, and as such will be
able to address this critical interdependence between decentralization and participation, i.e. the vertical
and horizontal dimensions of government-community interaction. This interaction, or the process of
decision-making, is as important as the decisions and subsequent material outputs. The creation of an
adequate institutional framework and environment for decentralization and participation will go a long
way towards the development of an appropriate future-oriented strategy aimed at self-determination and
sustainability.
2. Reasons for using a learning and innovation loan
For a variety of reasons, a learning and innovation loan (LIL) is the ideal instrument to process the
project. The project will be undertaken within a climate of insecurity, both political and social. By helping
to overcome the trauma of genocide and a culture of obedience, it ventures out into uncharted territory,
both in Rwanda and in its approach. Given these difficult circumstances, the Bank's field office (social
sector staff) will have primary responsibility to monitor and supervise implementation at the central and
local levels.
The project is at the forefront of community development. It uses a promising but as of yet novel
approach by partnering local populations with local administrations in an effort to build joint ownership
of the development process. To this end, it defers decision-making, financial management and sub-project
supervision to the communities with only coordination and monitoring undertaken at the central level.
The projects attempts to achieve such decentralization through heavy emphasis on institution building.
MININTER is a new partner for the Bank, and capacities especially at the local level are weak. The start-
up of the project may, therefore, be slow. A major focus will, thus, be on training central and local
administrations, local committees and community-based groups and to limit the project to a manageable
number of participating communes.
The activities to be funded under the project cannot be determined beforehand as communities will
identify their needs and attendant interventions during implementation. Moreover, as communities will be
enabled to fine-tune the implementation arrangements within a generic framework, project
implementation will vary between communes. Such implementation arrangements require constant
monitoring of activities as well as the undertaking of socio-economic studies to better understand the
dynamics and impact of the project in particular, of decentralization and participation in general.
The final evaluation will determine the degree of achievement of the project's objective and outputs. If
the project was deemed successful regarding implementation and financial management, and if the
beneficiaries were highly satisfied with project outcomes and procedures, a full-scale sector investment
credit, possibly under co-financing arrangements with interested donors, or another operation using the
decentralization-participation approach could be envisaged. If the design or circumstances will not enable
the project to fully realize its objective and outputs but achieve a high level of beneficiary satisfaction, a
second LIL may be more appropriate, given the Government's continued focus on decentralization and
participation.



10     Community Reintegration and Development Project
3. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
An increasing number of donor projects target communes directly, and MININTER has already
established a Decentralization Coordination Unit (DCU) for its community-based projects to avoid
overlapping, even contradictory actions. The DCU will also aim at (a) internalizing the participatory
approach among both government and the population; (b) increasing financial management capacity at
the decentralized level; and (c) reviewing the legal framework with a view to adapting it to the concept
and approach of decentralization.
During preparations, direct links have already been established with similar interventions, such as the
USAID-financed Democratic Initiatives and Governance Project in MININTER. The CRDP will
institutionally link up with all such projects through the DCU, in particular regarding (a) the mutual
exchange of lessons and experiences and (b) a consistent approach to procedures and capacity building.
Furthermore, an Advisory Committee (comprising representatives from Government, implementing
partners and donors/UN partners) will be established by the DCU to periodically discuss progress and
problems encountered during implementation; ensure transparency; and facilitate coordination among all
projects with community participation.
Sector issue         Project                                          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings (Bank-financed projects)
IP            DO
Bank-financed
Social and economic   PNAS project (Programme National d'Actions           S              S
infrastructure      Sociales).
Other development agencies
Democratic           USAID finances a US$ 1 million Democratic            n/a            n/a
initiatives and     Initiatives and Governance Project in twelve pilot
governance           communes over a 12-month period. It is being
implemented by AFRICARE working closely with
MININTER. The project aims at "empowering
communities to participate more in local government"
and "changing local government policies to be more
responsive to community needs". Its objectives,
outputs and components reflect the Government's
sector strategy.
Capacity building    UNDP is executing a project with MIN1NTER            n/a            n/a
focusing on regional planning activities (area
development plans) in all prefectures. It strengthens
the capacity at the prefectoral level, thus focuses on
the intermediary level of the decentralization strategy.
UNDP uses PRAs to identify the reconstruction needs
in all communes of a prefecture but does not provide
resources through this project to fund reconstruction
activities.



Community Reintegration and Development Project    11
continued
Sector issue         Project                                           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings (Bank-financed projects)
Decentralization and   UNDP initiated a project in MININTER aimed at       n/a             n/a
community            community development and decentralization. The
development          decentralization component (US$ 2.5 million) will be
implemented by UNDP and will attempt to strengthen
the Govemment's capacities and sectoral framework.
The community development component will amount
to US$ 3.0 million, focus on Gitarama and Kibungo
prefectures, and be implemented by an implementing
partner.
Poverty alleviation  The African Development Bank is preparing a poverty   n/a            n/a
alleviation project in MIGEFASO with the following
components: (a) a micro-credit fund; (b) a commune
fund for small-scale infrastructure; (c) capacity
building of communes and implementing partners;
and (d) monitoring. The project will be for US$ 14
million over 5 years. It will be located in Gikongoro
and Kibuye prefectures.
Community            In response to the return of refugees, IoAD has       n/a             n/a
reintegration        prepared a Rwanda Returnees Rehabilitation Program
with similar objectives to the CRDP. Implementation
arrangements are currently under preparation and are
likely to differ from the proposed project in their
independence from local administrations. IFAD will
implement the project in coordination with
MIGEFASO.
IP: implementation progress; DO: development objectives.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (highly satisfactory), S (satisfactory), U (unsatisfactory), HU (highly unsatisfactory), n/a (not
applicable).
4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The Bank's PNASproject (Programme National d'Actions Sociales), which was approved in 1992, is a
member of the social action program family of projects. Its objective is short-term poverty alleviation in
particular through the provision of infrastructure and the generation of temporary employment. Since its
resumption in 1995, the project has improved its implementation record and is being adjusted to include
community contributions for the (re-) construction of social and economic infrastructure. However, as
procurement, contracting and other project management tasks are the centralized responsibilities of the
PNAS implementing agency, beneficiary participation is limited and decentralized decision-making
restricted. The project's efforts at local capacity building are also very limited (see mid-term evaluation
report of May 1997: "Evaluation a mi-parcours du programme national d'actions sociales").
In preparation of the project, MININTER coordinated participatory rural appraisals (PRA) in four
communes. These PRAs assisted the communities in (a) identifying and prioritizing their needs as they
relate to the massive return of refugees in 1996/97; (b) identifying project interventions that address these
needs most effectively; and (c) identifying specific local institutional arrangements that ensure proper



12     Community Reintegration and Development Project
decentralization of decision-making and participation of all population groups. The project has been
designed around the findings and lessons from these PRAs.
Responsibility for overall financial management of the project will rest with the PCMU inMININTER. A
limited review of MININTER's financial management systems was conducted by Ernst and Young (see
"Limited review of financial management systems" dated May 26, 1997) in conjunction with the local
governance project financed by USAID. In this report, control weaknesses and financial management
deficiencies were identified in all of the sampled communes. The degree of confidence expressed in the
capacities of MiNINTER and the local communes tested was stated as "medium". The report pinpoints
specific remedial areas for intervention and capacity building and efforts are underway, through a training
program financed by USAID, to address the identified weaknesses. The project will adapt this training
program to Bank policies and procedures on financial management.
The other donor-financed projects mentioned above are either in their early stages of implementation or
still under preparation. Preliminary experiences with UNDP's capacity building project (area
development plans) for prefectures, however, reinforce the usefulness of the PRA approach for
identifying priority needs and interventions.
The project also builds on the findings of the World Development Report 1997 on "The State in a
Changing World". To bridge the gap between the state and its citizens, the World Development Report
1997 (chapter 7 on "Bringing the State Closer to People") observes that improving the capability and
effectiveness of the state rests with mechanisms to: (a) increase openness and transparency; (b)
strengthen incentives for participation in public affairs; and (c) bring government closer to the people and
communities it is meant to serve.
The experience of governments the world over suggests some clear starting points: (a) broad-based
public discussion and evaluation of policy directions and priorities; (b) encouraging the direct
participation of users and beneficiary groups in the design, implementation and monitoring of local public
goods and services; (c) enhancing the capacity and efficiency of accountable local organizations and
institutions rather than replacing them; (d) introducing strong monitoring mechanisms; and (e) focusing
on the processes and incentives for building accountability and competition at the local level.
The project shares the central importance social funds place on participation. Learning from their
experience, it has a strong focus on training (including in organizational management) as well as on
monitoring and evaluation. However, the project also builds on the worldwide lessons of
decentralization, thereby combining participation and decentralization. Among others, it (a) sets
transparent rules that increase the local administrations' horizontal accountability (to the public) and
vertical accountability (to the center); (b) establishes CDCs that institutionalize government-community
interaction; and (c) includes the local population in all stages of the project cycle.
Lessons from completed Bank projects in Rwanda that have been incorporated into project design and
preparation include, among others: the inclusion of significant reforms more conducive to participation;
greater attention paid to institutional reform and capacity building; full consideration of the stakeholders'
views; strong coordination mechanisms at the central level; Government commitment and involvement;
attention to cost recovery issues; availability of funds for technical assistance to local communities; and
coordination among external assistance agencies.



Community Reintegration and Development Project   13
5. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The Government is firmly committed to the decentralization and governance initiatives currently
underway. During the conception and preparation phase, MININTER staff have played a crucial role,
reflecting the high priority Government attaches to community development. The preparatory field work
was coordinated by MININTER, and the local administrations have actively assisted in encouraging
communities to participate in the task of local development planning. In preparation of the project,
MININTER expanded its capacities and established a Decentralization Coordination Unit.
Simultaneously and independently, the Government is revising the Community Solidarity Fund concept
according to the changed post-war social and political realities and views the project as a pilot approach
to,operationalize the CSF.
6. Value added of Bank support in this project
Donors are increasingly interested in community development, but whereas some donors are working
with and through Government, others prefer independent arrangements. By and large, thus, donor
assistance does not yet focus on longer-term fiscal and economic autonomy of the communes. None
explicitly supports the Government's comprehensive community development approach through itsCSF
because of the perceived or real possibility of Government intervention in local decision-making.
As experience elsewhere suggests, decentralization is in many cases not the result of any carefully
designed sequence of reforms, but has occurred in an environment in which the level of trust is low and
policy-makers respond unsystematically to emerging demands from below (World Development Report
1997). At this juncture, there is a danger that donor-supported activities aimed at decentralization and
participation remain unsystematic, thereby possibly rendering the overall approach unsustainable.
The contribution of the Bank will, thus, be two-fold. On the one hand, the Bank has already been able to
interest other donors and hence serves as a catalyst facilitating fund raising for community-based
projects. On the other hand, the Bank will cooperate with the Government to operationalize its
community development strategy in ways that include local officials and the communities at large,
placing heavy emphasis on the development of human resources. The Bank will thereby assist
Government in creating an implementable and consistent policyframework.
E. Sumnmary Project Analysis
1. Financial
The project will finance capital expenses for social and economic infrastructure rehabilitation and
construction. As a condition for approval, each community, with the assistance of a partner agency if
necessary, will have to prepare a recurrent cost-recovery plan for each of these sub-projects. This plan
will aim at ensuring financial sustainability after project completion. Arrangements for cost recovery will
be assessed as part of the overall operational soundness of the sub-project.
2. Institutional
The capacity of MININTER to coordinate and monitor the project will continuously be evaluated and
strengthened as required. Specific capacity building needs have already been identified and corrective
actions prepared. The project will address these needs within the framework of the national capacity



14     Community Reintegration and Development Project
assessment and strategy supported by the Bank. Close cooperation has been established with local
training institutions to identify and implement locally adequate measures to address capacity building
needs. A project implementation manual has been prepared describing in simple and transparent terms the
organizational structure, micro-project related aspects and appraisal criteria, and financial and
administrative aspects. The manual will be translated into Kinyarwanda to enable all CDC members to
fully understand and participate in the project and its operations.
3. Social
Socio-economic, political, cultural, institutional and social factors that affect the project at the local level
will be monitored continuously. To the extent possible, the project will take these factors into account,
thereby minimizing possible disruptions of, and maximizing its effect on, the social fabric. Close
cooperation is being sought with partner agencies, the local PRA network, and local training providers to
identify and implement locally adequate measures to address these issues.
4. Environmental assessment
Environmental Category:     [] A   [x] B   []C
Environmental issues that affect the project at the local level will be identified, assessed and mitigated
where appropriate. To the extent possible, the project's design will take these factors into account,
thereby minimizing negative environmental impacts and promoting positive "win/win" situations.
Relevant environmental issues will be incorporated into the implementation of the project through the
project implementation manual, and related mechanisms will be set up. Environmental aspects will be
integrated in the capacity building component at the local and central levels. Targeted environmental
education modules, ranging from awareness raising to technical implications, will be developed.
5. Participatory approach
Stakeholders                              Preparation      Implementation     Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups               COL               COL              COL
Partner agencies                             COL               COL              COL
Academic and training institutions           COL               COL              COL
Local and central government                 COL               COL              COL
Other donors and agencies                    COL               COL              COL
IS: information sharing; CON: consultation; COL: collaboration.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Financial. A realistic recurrent cost-recovery plan will have to be prepared for all infrastructure sub-
projects. This plan will have to be approved by the CDC before implementation. The impact on recurrent
expenditures to be incurred by other ministries will receive particular attention, such as salaries for
additional staff needed for operations and maintenance. MININTER will work closely with these



Community Reintegration and Development Project    15
ministries with a view to developing a sustainable recurrent cost strategy, also taking into consideration
the CSF's mechanism for redistributing funds between better and less well endowed communes.
Social. Mutual trust between local administrations and local communities is a key element for
sustainability. Mechanisms that foster this relationship will, therefore, be developed and constantly
reviewed. In essence, the project will have to (a) assist the local administrations to offer services
efficiently and transparently; (b) enable the local communities to participate in the decision-making
process on the use of commune resources; and (c) help to build trust between the local government and
the community as well as within the community.
Political. The Government's commitment to decentralization is key to political sustainability. It will be
reflected in (a) its willingness to accept local solutions to local problems and (b) the creation of an
enabling environment for the participation of local population in the planning and implementation of
projects.
2. Critical risks
Risk                                       Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
1. Outputs to Objective
Local population and local administration do   S        Closely monitoring implementation to identify
not build a relationship of mutual trust.               areas of conflict early on; devising local
conflict mediation mechanisms; fostering spirit
of partnership through training communities in
participation and communication techniques.
Required course corrections at local and      M         Ensuring transparency and accountability of
national levels not undertaken during project           the decision-making process; closely
implementation.                                         monitoring implementation and reviewing
progress reports.
2. Components to Outputs
Communities are not willing to enter into     M         Continuous monitoring of functioning of local
partnerships with communal administrations.             committees; increasing motivation of local
committees through timely availability of
funds and transparency in fund management.
Community decision making process not          S        A priori identifying responsibilities and
working because of perceived or actual                  obligations of government and communities;
Govemment intervention in local decision-               demonstrating the synergy effects of
making.                                                 government-community cooperation; ensuring
transparency and accountability.
Local security situation does not permit       S        Community participation may work towards
freedom of expression/association and free              increased cohesiveness of communities which
movement of people, goods and services.                 may prevent the occurrence of local violence.
Overall Risk Rating     S        Leaming and adaptation based on continuous
monitoring will contribute to risk
minimization.
Risk Rating - H (high risk), S (substantial risk), M (modest risk), N (negligible or low risk).



16    Community Reintegration and Development Project
3. Possible controversial aspects
Resettlement. Responding to the immense post-war need for shelter and supporting infrastructure, the
Government initiated a resettlement program in 1994/95. Having initially been targeted to households
without shelter, households living in established but scattered homesteads have increasingly been
encouraged to settle in newly developed sites (imidugudu). Under this program, potential beneficiaries -
who are identified by the local authorities on a needs basis - participate in the selection of the new site
and are required to contribute to the construction of houses in the new settlement. The Government
confirmed that such resettlement is voluntary and no involuntary resettlement is ernvisaged. The project
will not support involuntary resettlement. However, as and when decided by the CDC, it will finance the
construction of houses for returnees and other homeless households as well as of supporting
infrastructure.
Exclusion. The local population is very much aware of its role in socio-economic development, and
objects to the continuation of development imposed from above. Interference of central and local
government in the process may discourage motivation, hence may lead to a lack of community
participation and perceived or real exclusion from project benefits of different population groups. The
project's social objective of building community partnerships may then be in jeopardy. The sensitization
of communities as well as of central and local government will therefore be an integral part of the project.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Agreements reached during negotiations
*  Institutional structure and implementation arrangements at central and local levels.
* Financial management, disbursement and procurement procedures.
*  Institution and capacity building measures.
*  Criteria for the selection of communes and CDC members.
2. Conditionsfor approval by Bank management
-  Adoption of project implementation manual.
*  Selection of participating communes.
3. Effectiveness conditions
* Establishment of PCMU and hiring Project Coordinator, Project Officer and Accountant.
*  Establishment of a satisfactory financial management system to monitor project implementation.
*  Adoption of regulation setting forth the modalities for the establishment of the CDCs.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x]    The Project Implementation Manual has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.



Community Reintegration and Development Project   17
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Mr. Markus Kostner
Sector Manager: Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Country Director: Mr. Nils 0. Tcheyan






Annex I
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance          Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-related CAS       1. Availability of       *  ESW in health,       (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:                    minimum basic services to  education, etc. (periodic).   *  Sustainable economic
Successful social and    old and new caseload                             reform and external debt
economic reintegration of  returnees and other                            management;
refugees and vulnerable    vulnerable groups;
.                                          *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Concurrent increases
groups, thereby laying the   2. Revitalization of local                    in agricultural
foundation for longer-term  production and                                productivity;
social and economic      employment opportunities;
development.             3. Improving social                               *  Concurrent improved
3. Improving social                 ~~~~~natural resource
cohesion in communities;                         management;
4. National policy                               *  Social stability
dialogue on                                      achieved within Rwandan
decentralization and                             society;
community participation.
*  Improved regional
cooperation in the Great
Lakes/East Africa region.
Project Development      1. Openness of dialogue    *  PCMU reports;      (Objective to Goal)
Objective:               achieved in the          external evaluation reports  *  Operationalization of
To demonstrate that      Community Development  (mid-term and final);     sectoral strategy based on
community reintegration    Committees of          beneficiary assessment   decentralization and
and development can      participating communes;   reports (annual).      participation;
effectively take place   2. Extent of transparency                         *  National and Great
through a process of     and accountability within                         Lakes regional security
government               the local decision making                         situation stabilized;
decentralization and     process of participating
community participation.   communes;                                       *       Consistency of
approach and cooperation
3. Level of satisfaction of                      regarding community
beneficiaries with                               reintegration and
community-level project                          development within the
outcomes;                                        donor and NGO
4. Assessment regarding                          community.
the replicability of the
project activities on a
wider scale.
Outputs:                                                                   (Outputs to Objective)
1. Social and economic   1. Number of sub-projects  I. PCMU implementation   *  Course corrections at
infrastructure rehabilitated  financed; comparison of    progress reports; technical  local and national levels
and income-generating    community development   audit reports (periodic);    undertaken during project
projects undertaken;     plans and sub-projects   disbursement rates;     implementation, when
executed;               evaluation reports (mid-    required;
term and final);
19



20       Annex 1: Project Design Summary
continued
Narrative Summary         Key Performance           Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
2. Competent planning,    2. Number of training     2. Implementation          *  Local population and
selection, and            activities undertaken and    progress reports;      local administration build
implementation of         of people trained; rate of    beneficiary assessments  a relationship of mutual
reintegration and         approval of sub-project   (annual); evaluation      trust around project
development activities at   proposals; rate of sub-  reports (mid-term and    activities.
the local level;          projects with deviations;    final);
level of beneficiary
satisfaction with planning
process;
3. Necessary expansion of  3. DCU review of         3. Implementation
the knowledge base to     resulting studies as      progress reports;
better support            significant contributions to  evaluation reports (mid-
decentralization and      the knowledge base on     term and final);
community participation;   decentralization and
community participation
by end of project;
4. Effective              4. Timeliness of          4. Implementation
implementation,           submission of monitoring   progress reports by
monitoring and evaluation   reports; level of quality in   PCMU; financial audit
of the project.           monitoring and evaluation  reports; evaluation reports
activities; level of quality   (mid-term and final).
of financial management.
Project                   Inputs: (budget for each                            (Components to
Components/Sub-           component, including                                 Outputs)
components:               contingencies)
1. Community initiatives    US$ 4.35 million        .  Progress reports       *  Communities willing
(community sub-projects                             (quarterly);              to enter into partnerships
implementation);                                                              with communal
administrations;
2. Institutional          2. US$ 0.38 million       .  Disbursement reports   *  Local security
strengthening:                                      (quarterly).              situation favorable to free
*  participatory rural                                                        movement of people,
appraisals                                                                     goods and services;
*  training at local and
national level;
3. Studies;               3. US$ 0.02 million                                  *  Community-level
4. Coordination and       4. US$ 0.53 million                                  decision making process
monitoring                                                                     working.



Annex 2
Chart A
Decentralization and Participation:
The Two Dimensions of the Community Reintegration and Development Project
Vertical dimension:
D e c e n t r a I i z a t i o n
Central~Dcetrliato
Central                         <                          Transferring decision-making and
government                     t                                       expenditure authority.
Horizontal dimension:
P a r t i c i p a t i o n
Building partnership around policy
Prfectoral                    )formulation, sectoral planning,
adefectoral                                                         project implementation.
administration
.................. . ........ ... .....  ..........                     .. ...............  ..........    ..........  ......... ........ . .
Communal                                                                        Local
administration  |                                                             population
21.  ..   ........................... .................. ... ......... ... . . ... . .... . . . . ... .............................................................
21



Chart B
Organigram
(Generic Community Development Committee)
Project Coordination
and Monitoring Unit
Community Development Committee
(Secretariat: President, Treasurer, Secretary)
Administration Sub-                              Management Sub-
Committee                                       Committee
(annually elected)                              (annually elected)
I CDC member              CDC                    I CDC member               CDA
(elected head)        Accountant                 (elected head)
3 elected                                        3 el
CDC members.                                     CDC members
22



Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                  Local          Foreign        Total
----------------------- US$ million --------------------
Community initiatives                              4.17               -          4.17
Institution and capacity building                  0.36               -          0.36
Studies                                            0.02              -           0.02
Project coordination and monitoring                0.42             0.09         0.51
Total Baseline Cost                                4.97             0.09         5.06
Physical Contingencies                             0.11             0.00         0.11
Price Contingencies                                0.11             0.00         0.11
Total Project Cost                                 5.19             0.09         5.28
23



24      Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Table A
Disbursement Schedule
(in US$, including contingencies)
Category/Item                             Total         FY99           FYOO          FYO0
(1) Community initiatives
Project funds                        2,714,283       904,761        904,761        904,761
Partners/contractors                   440,154       146,718        146,718        146,718
CDC                                    357,576       119,192        119,192        119,192
Community development agent            225,720        75,240         75,240        75,240
Commune account.                       225,720        75,240         75,240        75,240
Office rehabilitation and support       56,430        56,430              -             -
Recurrent costs (community)            108,027        36,009         36,009        36,009
sub-total    4,127,910      1,413,590     1,357,160      1,357,160
share/cumulative       82.8%       1,413,590     2,770,750      4,127,910
(2) Equipment, materials and supplies
Office equipment                        12,749        12,749              -             -
Vehicles                                73,150        73,150
sub-total       85,899        85,899              -             -
share/cumulative        1.7%         85,899         85,899        85,899
(3) Training and consultants
Training                               188,100        62,700         62,700        62,700
PRA                                    188,100        62,700         62,700        62,700
Studies                                 15,675         5,225          5,225         5,225
Technical audit                         37,620        12,540         12,540         12,540
Evaluations                             15,675         5,225          5,225          5,225
Extemal audit                           25,080         8,360          8,360          8,360
sub-total      470,250       156,750        156,750        156,750
share/cumulative        9.4%        156,750       313,500        470,250
(4) Operating costs
Coordinator                             60,391        20,130         20,130        20,130
Accountant/firrn                        49,105        16,368         16,368         16,368
Project officer                        113,456        37,819         37,819        37,819
Secretary/administration                10,910         3,637          3,637         3,637
Driver                                  12,328         4,109          4,109         4,109
Recurrent costs                         56,189        18,730         18,730         18,730
sub-total      302,379       100,793        100,793        100;793
share/cumulative        6.1%        100,793       201,586        302,379
Grand Total                           4,986,438     1,757,032      1,614,703      1,614,703
Share/cumulative                         100%       1,757,032      3,371,735     4,986,438



Annex 4
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
The project will not only transfer decision-making authority to the local level, it will also enable the local
Community Development Committees (CDCs) to manage financial resources. The communal council
will establish the CDCs with administrative and financial autonomy. The President of the CDC or his/her
designate(s) will, thus, be able to enter into contracts with suppliers of goods, works, and services on
behalf of the CDC.
Procurement and disbursement procedures are based on the results of the four participatory rural
appraisals undertaken to date and two Bank documents, namely: (a) Guidelines for simplified
community-based procurement and disbursement and (b) Manual for designing procurement and
disbursement mechanisms. The project will otherwise follow World Bank's Guidelines on procurement
of goods, works and services -- Guidelines Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995, revised January and August 1996 and September 1997 (for goods and works), and Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 (for consultants).
The project implementation manual includes detailed procedures for procurement, financial management
and disbursement and will be translated into Kinyarwanda to enable all CDC members review and discuss
the generic procedures. Each CDC will be able to adjust certain parts to better reflect local circumstances
as specified in the project implementation manual.
1. Procurement
Basic principles
At the community level, all procurement-related activities will be the primary responsibility of the
implementers (essentially the CDCs and, to some extent, community-based groups) with the
Administration Sub-Committee providing guidance and support. Partner agencies will assist CBGs in
procurement issues where necessary. In addition, training sessions will be offered by specialized training
institutes. In difficult cases, PCMU staff will provide the required assistance. At the central level, the
PCMU will be responsible for the procurement of equipment, materials, and supplies as well as the
contracting of consultants for training, studies, PRAs, evaluations and external audits.
National shopping/IAPSO
Given the nature of the project, most contracts will not exceed US$ 30,000 per individual contract at both
the central and community levels. For such contracts, international and national competitive bidding will
not be the most appropriate methods of procurement. Vehicles and computer equipment may be procured
from IAPSO. For the interest of the project and possible savings, the project is encouraged to compare the
local prices with those of IAPSO for items that could be procured by the latter. Only in cases where local
prices exceed those of IAPSO's by 15%, the procurement should be done through IAPSO.
Contracts for the rest of the materials and equipment to be purchased at both the community and central
levels that are not expected to exceed US$ 30,000 per contract and a total of US$ 60,000 for the life of
the project, may be awarded on the basis of national shopping, provided at least three eligible suppliers
are invited to bid. The CDCs and PCMU will monitor the aggregate amounts under each category of
procurement.
25



26      Annex 4: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Community participation
The bulk of the procurement under the project will be by community participation. The beneficiaries
(communities) will be responsible for the procurement activities under a sub-project. They may require
the technical assistance of a partner agency, where there is no capacity in procurement and contract
administration. The recommended procurement method is local bidding. The procedures from
advertising, evaluating the bids and awarding the contracts to the model documents to be used will be
similar to the procedures described in Bank document for simplified community-based procurement and
disbursement as modified to suit the specific context in the project implementation manual.
Consultants (technical assistance and training)
The project will not finance long-term expatriate technical assistance. Consultant services will be
procured locally except for the audit, when it is expected that the expertise of an international auditing
firm will be required on a short-term basis. The selection procedures based on the consultants guidelines
(1997) and described in the project implementation manual will consist of: (a) quality and cost-based for
the auditing firm; (b) fixed-budget contracts, easy to administer and based on performance, for
participatory rural appraisals and training activities; and (c) selection of individual consultants (section V
of Guidelines).
Prior review thresholds
Prior review will be carried out for each of the first three contracts for goods and works to be concluded
by the PCMU and a CDC, as well as any other contract for works exceeding US$ 30,000. For consulting
services, prior review of documentation will be required for: (a) contracts with consulting firms with an
estimated value of US$ 25,000 or more; (b) contracts with individuals for US$ 15,000 or more; (c) terms
of reference for all contracts regardless of value; and (d) amendments to contracts with consulting firms
that lead to substantial modifications of the terms of reference or the terms of employment.
Post Review
All contracts not subject to the above thresholds will be subject to a post review.
Documents
The project will use standard bidding documents and procedures specified in the project implementation
manual.
2. Disbursement
Basic principles
The CDC (Administration Sub-Committee) will be entrusted with fund management at the local level.
Payments to implementers will be made according to a predetermined payment schedule which wvil1 be
part of the sub-project proposal. Transfers will be effected expeditiously when due, and fund
management will follow transparent procedures that will be standardized across the participating
communes. After an initial advance, each subsequent transfer will be made on the basis of justified
expenditures and according to the disbursement schedule. For infrastructure sub-projects, the final



Annex 4: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements    27
tranche will be paid upon approval of the quality of works by an independent technical auditor. The
Administration Sub-Committee will undertake these activities under the guidance of the CDC Secretariat.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
Use of SOEs will be contingent upon a favorable appraisal of the PCMU's financial management
capacity including maintenance of proper accounts and preparation of project progress reports, ability to
process and maintain SOE documentation, and satisfactory annual audit arrangements. One condition of
effectiveness is a satisfactory financial management system. Provided these conditionalities are met,
SOEs will be used for all expenses related to sub-projects, and expenses relating to contracts below prior
review thresholds will be claimed on the basis of SOEs to be available for review by Bank supervision
missions at any time. Supporting documentation will be retained by the PCMU.
Special account
The Government will open a Special Account in US$ in the name of the PCMU, with the Banque
Nationale du Rwanda to which project funds will be transferred. The PCMU will receive an initial
advance to commence operations. The advances will be kept initially to a limited amount, while the
project activities get underway, but will be increased once full execution begins. For further
disbursements, the PCMU will submit appropriate justification (bank reconciliation statements and other
reasonable documentation) to the Bank. The Special Account will be audited annually by external
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Community project accounts
Due to the decentralized approach of the project, most of the activities will be conducted in remote areas
of the country where there are no adequate banking services linked to the capital city. Even if there were
branches of the Banque Populaire in most of the communes, no immediate transfer of funds could be
effected from the capital to the prefecture and finally to the CDCs. In order to facilitate payment to the
CDCs, the Borrower will, therefore, be authorized by the Bank to withdraw funds in local currency from
the Special Account and use them as an advance for a period not exceeding 90 days into subsidiary, local
special accounts that will be opened in commercial bank branches that are in, or close to, the
geographical location of the participating communes.
In addition, the Borrower is still faced with serious budgetary constraints and is, therefore, at the present
time unable to provide adequate working capital to pre-finance the eligible activities in the participating
communes and claim reimbursement afterwards. Arrangements for the 5% contribution will be detailed in
the project implementation manual. The financial control mechanisms to be established as a condition of
effectiveness will allow the PCMU and the prefect's office to constantly monitor the financial flows.
Training planned throughout project implementation, and in particular during the start-up phase, will
strengthen the administrative capacity at the central and local levels to manage the financial aspects of the
project.
The CDC subsidiary, 90-day special account will be administered by the Administration Sub-Committee,
specifically the CDC accountant. Upon approval of the community development plan, the Administration
Sub-Committee will prepare a one-year operating budget and a financial plan with cash flow
requirements (disbursement schedule). On the basis of this budget and financial plan, the Administration
Sub-Committee will request an advance covering no more than 90 days from the PCMU. For later



28     Annex 4: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
replenishments, the expenses incurred under the previous tranche will have to be justified (e.g. by
submitting receipts).
Payments for eligible expenditures under sub-projects will be made by the CDC according to a
predetermined payment schedule. Unless beneficiaries have a bank account and adequate financial
management capabilities, payments incurred for income-generating sub-projects will be effected by the
CDC on behalf of the beneficiary. Such payments, as well as payments for infrastructure and capacity
building sub-projects, will be to the account of the supplier or partner agency in accordance with contract
payment terms.
The CDC accounts will be subject to a review by the office of the prefect on a monthly basis. They will
be reviewed by the PCMU on a quarterly basis. The PCMU will prepare quarterly financial reports to be
submitted to MININTER, MINECOFIN and the Bank. The Bank's disbursement letter to be issued by
LOA and the project implementation manual being prepared by MININTER will specify the above-
mentioned arrangements in more detail.



Annex 4: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements   29
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB/NBC       NS 1/       Other         n.a.
1. Community sub-projects 2/       -           -       3.44 (3.21)  0.92 (0.92)    4.35 (4.13)
2. Equipment and materials         -       0.09 (0.09)      -           -          0.09 (0.09)
3. Training and consultants 3/     -           -        0.47 (0.47)     -          0.47 (0.47)
4. Incremental operating costs     -           -        0.22 (0.22)  0.15 (0.09)   0.37 (0.31)
Total                              -       0.09 (0.09)  4.12 (3.90)  1.06 (1.00)   5.27 (5.00)
n.a.    not applicable
1/     National shopping or IAPSO
2/     Community participation as specified in the project implementation manual.
31     QCBS or fixed budget
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value           Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)                Method           Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US $                                         US $ millions
i. Community sub-               30,000           Community participation          1.26
projects 1/
2. Equipment and                                    National shopping/             0.09
materials                                            IAPSO
3  Training and             25,000 for firms/         Fixed budget                 0.36
consultants           15,000 for individuals
4. Incremental
operating costs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   1.71
I/     As specified in the project implementation manual
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount in US$ million   Financing Percentage 1/
1. Community sub-projects                                 4.13                     95
2. Equipment and materials                                0.09                     100
3. Training and consultants                               0.47                    100
4. Incremental operating costs                            0.31                     83
Total          5.00                    95
1/     The disbursement percentages have been calculated to exclude Bank financing of local taxes and import duties. The
percentages to be applied to each invoice total.






Annex 5
Timetable for Consultants, Monitoring and Training
Activity                          Date/Period                        Responsible
Participatory rural appraisals     1. Start of first year (fourth quarter   PCMU will contract local
(community development plans)     1998).                             consultant(s).
2. Start of second year (fourth
quarter 1999).
3. Start of third year (fourth quarter
of 2000).
Training                           1. Training program throughout    PCMU will contract local training
first year of operation.          provider(s), organizes workshops
2. Regular refresher training and  for exchanging experiences.
exchange of experiences during
final two years of operation.
Studies                           1. I study during first year (first  PCMU will contract local
quarter 1999).                    consultant(s).
2. 1 study during second year (first
quarter 2000).
3. 1 study during third year (first
quarter 2001).
Monitoring (technical and         1. Quarterly sub-project reports.  1. Beneficiaries.
financial)                        2. Quarterly summary sub-project   2. CDA/CDC.
reports.                          3. PCMU.
3. Quarterly summary project      4. PCMU.
reports.
4. Annual project progress reports.
External evaluation               1. External mid-term evaluation    PCMU will contract local
first quarter of 2000 (followed by    consultant(s) for external
Bank mid-term review),            evaluations.
2. Final evaluation third quarter of
2001.
External audit                    1. End of first year (fourth quarter   PCMU will contract external
of 1999).                         auditors acceptable to the Bank.
2. End of second year (fourth
quarter of 2000).
3. End of third year (first quarter of
2002).
31



I



Annex 6
Project Processing Budget and Schedulie
A. Project Budget (US$ 000)                           Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
142.8                  132.8
B. Project Schedule                                   Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months) 1/            5                       5
First Bank mission                                  11/17/1997              11/17/1997
Appraisal mission                                   02/16/1998              02/16/1998
Negotiations (in the field)                         02/25/1998              03/23/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       10/01/1998
1/ Participatory rural appraisals have been carried out in April/May 1997 in preparation of pilot community-
based reintegration and development activities. Other preparatory work for the CRDP was undertaken within
the same framework. The results of these activities are fully incorporated into the design of the CRDP.
Prepared by: Ministry of the Interior, Communal Development and Resettlement.
Assistance for preparatory rural appraisal: Dutch Consultant Trust Fund, IFAD, UNHCR.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                           Specialty
Nat J. Colletta                                Cluster Leader
Markus Kostner                                 Human Resources Economist/Task Team Leader
Toni Kayonga                                   Operations Officer
Abdou Salam Drabo                              Participation Specialist
Asha Ayoung/Prosper Nindorera                  Procurement Specialists
Nina Chee                                      Environment Specialist
Hassane Cisse/Pedro de Blas                    Counsels
David Freese/Juvenal Nzambimana/Bibiane Uwera    Disbursement Officers
33






Annex 7
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Ministry of the Interior, Communal Development and Resettlement. 1998. Project
Implementation Manual for the Community Reintegration and Development Project.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Aide-Memoire, Emergency Reintegration and Reconstruction Program, February 1997
(in particular Annex J).
2.    Community Reintegration and Development Fund. Pilot Project Document. Kigali, July
1997.
3.    Aide-Memoire, November 24, 1997 (CRDP preparation).
4.    Aide-Memoire, December 12, 1997 (preparation of training program).
5.    Aide-Memoire, February 28, 1998 (appraisal).
C. Other
I .    AFRICARE. 1997. An Application for the Local Government Initiative Pilot Project.
Kigali.
2.    AREDI. 1997. Le Projet de Reintegration et de Developpement Communautaire.
Ebauche d'un manuel de procedures. Kigali.
3.    Byamana, Alexis et al. 1997. Rapport du Diagnostic Participatif pour l'Elaboration du
Plan Pilote de Developpement de la Commune Mutura (Identification des Problemes et
Projets Prioritaires par l'Equipe de MUTURA.
4.    Dieudonn6, Emmanuel et al. 1997. Proposition d'un Plan de Developpement Communal
et de la Strategie d'un Fonds de Developpement Communautaire pour une Commune -
Pilote "Gituza" (Prefecture de Byumba).
5.    Ernst & Young. 1997. Limited Financial Review. Nairobi.
6.    Ilibagiza, Rose et al. 1997. Plan du Developpement Communautaire: Commune
Nyagatare.
7.    Marc, Alexandre et al. 1995. Social Action Programs and Social Funds: A Review of
Design and Implementation in Sub-Saharan Africa. World Bank Discussion Paper No.
274. Washington, D.C.
8.    Ministere de l'Interieur, du Developpement Communal et de la Reinstallation. 1997a. La
Politique Sectorielle. Kigali.
9.    Ministere de l'Interieur, du Developpement Communal et de la Reinstallation. 1997b.
Fonds de Solidarit6 Communale - FOSOC. Kigali.
35



36     Annex 7: Documents in the Project File
10.   Narayan, Deepa and Katrinka Ebbe. 1997. Design of Social Funds. World Bank
Discussion Paper No. 375. Washington, DC.
11.   Rukeramihigo, Protais et al. 1997. Preparation du Projet Pilote de Developpement
Communautaire et des Strategies de Gestion du Fonds de Developpement
Communautaire.
12.   UNDP. 1997. Decentralization Project. Kigali.
13.   USAID. 1997. Democratic Initiatives and Governance Project, 363-0133. Kigali.
14.   World Bank. 1997a. The State in a Changing World. World Development Report 1997.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
15.   World Bank. 1997b. Guidelines for Simplified Community-Based Procurement and
Disbursement. Portfolio Improvement Working Group. Africa Region.
16.   World Bank. 1994. Study of Procurement and Disbursement Issues in Projects with
Community Participation. Advisory Committee on Procurement and Disbursement Issues
in Bank-Financed Projects with Community Participation. Africa Technical Department.
17.   World Bank. Undated. Bank-Financed Projects With Community Participation: A
Manual for Designing Procurement and Disbursement Mechanisms. AFTCB.



Annex 8
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference Between expected
and actua
Original Amount in USS Millions                           disbursements a/
Loan or       Fiscal
Project ID            Credit No       Year                       Borrower                                  Purpose
IBRD           IDA            Cancellations         Undisbursed             Orig Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 39
Active Loans
RW-PE-223S            IDA21361         1998                   GOVERNMENT                     TRANSPORT SECTOR                          0.00           45.00                 0.00              43.89               6.67          3.27
RW-PE.48389           IDA29690         1997                   GOVERNMENT                     EMERGENCY REINT. & RECOVERY               0.00           50.00                 0.00               6,52               7.21          0.00
RW-PE-2262            IDA25410         1994                   GOVERNMENT                     PRIVATE SECTOR                            0.00           12.00                 0.00               6.06               5.66          0.00
RW-PE-2241            IDA24560         1993                   GOVERNMENT                     ENERGY SECTOR                             0.00           26.00                 0.00              17.76              18.84          0.00
RW-PE-2261            IDA23S80         1992                   GOVERNNENT                     FOOD SECURITY& SOCIAL                     0.00           19.10                 0.00               2.37               2.02         -5.24
ACTION
RW-PE-2237            IDA22720         1991                   GOVERNMENT                     HEALTH & POPULATION                       0.00           19.60                 0.00               7.73               7.70          5.17
RW-PE-2242            IDA22270         1991                   GOVERNMENT                     EDUCATION SECTOR                          0.00           23.30                 0.00               5,39               6.33          6.33
RW-PE-2245            IDA21890         1991                   GOVERNMENT                     SECOND COMMUNICATION                     0o00            12.80                 2.66               2.50               5.66          0.00
RW-PE-2238            IDA21360         1990                   GOVERNMENT                     TRANSPORT SECTOR                          0.00           40.00                 0.00               9.62               6.67          3.27
RW-PE-2222            IDA17830         1987                   GOVERNMENT                     WATER SUPPLY 11                           0.00           15.00                 0.23               0,76               0.15          0.00
Total                                                                                                                                  0.00          262.80                 2.89             102,60              66.91          12.80
Active Loans              Closed Loans                  Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                                  157.19                    450.57                     607.76
ofwhich has been repaid:                                       0.16                      33.71                      33.87
Total now held by BRD and IDA:                                   259.75                    389.51                     649.26
Amount sold:                                                       0.00                      4.38                       4.38
Of which repaid:                                                 0.00                       4.38                      4.38
Total Undisbursed:                                               102.60                      0.00                     102.60
a. Intended disburnements to date minus actual disbursements to date an pmrjected at appraisal.
b.  Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following tihe FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a lelter bnsed system will be used (S = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U  unsatisfactory, HU  highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
37






Annex 9
Rwanda at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Saharan     Low-
Rwanda      Africa  income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1 996 (millions)                           6.7       600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                                190        490       500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                   1.3       294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96                                                                           l
Population (%)                                           -0.6        2.7      1.7      GNP                ,       *      Gross
Labor force (%)                                           2.0        2.6      1.7      per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                                capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcoL  index (% of population)                 51          ..       ...
Urban population   of total population)                    6         31      -29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          39         o2        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 133         92        69               Accss to safe water
Child malnutrition (16 of children under 5)               28
Access to safe water (% of population)                               47        53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      40         43        34
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-ag-6population)      77         72       105                Rwanda
Male                                                    78         78       112                Lorf-income group
Female                 .                                76         65        98    l
KE2Y ECONOMIC RATrOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1985       1995     1996
,                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Economic ratios*
GDP (bilions.,)S)                              0.6       1.7        1.1      1.3
Gdrrdoiljestic investment/GDP                13.7     17.3       13.2      13.6             Openness of economy
Exporn~ 'ods and serviceslGDP                 9.2     10.8        5.7       6.1
Gross don csavingslGDP                        5.2      8.2      -11.1      -2.5                       T
Gross nation.ivngslGDP                       14.3      14.7      11.9       2.5
Current accour rIancefGDP                              -3.7       -1.3    -1
Interest payme .~~GDP                                   0.2       0.0       0.7      Savings    --                 Investment
Total debt/GDP                                4.2      21.3       95.9     85.3
Total debt serviuc.ports                                9.9       28.6     44.0
Present value of crt/GDP
Present value of cirjexports                                                                     Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995       1996  1997-05
(average annua,r,iwth)                                                                   -     Rwanda
GDP                                  6.1      -5.5     24.6       13.3       5.9             Low-inomegroup
GNP per capit,                        2.9     -7.8     21.3        7.8       2.8
Exportsof goo. anrd  ervices          7.4    -12.0     -4.5       40.5       6.9
STRUCTURE cG  -.CONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996       Growth rates of output and Investment (%.
Agriculture                                    52.4     45.7       37.8     40.3      lta
lncust -                                      20.2      24.8       15.9     14.4       s
Mor>      Ig                                 13.1      15.0      15.4      14.0
Service                                        27.3     29.5       46.3     45.3                   .          s    c _ii695 s 9 ss
Private consumption                            78.2     80.5      101.5     92.2      -isa
General government consumption                 16.6     11.3        9.6      10.3               -- GD1         e  GDP
Imports of goods and services                  17.7     19.9       30.0     22.3
1975-85  '1986-96      1995    '19965       rwhrtso  xot  n  mot %
(average annual growth)                                                               Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     4.7      -4.7      20.9      11.1 '    oo 
Industry                                        7.5      -9.6       2.0      15.3        + T    A
Manufacturing                                  6.7     -7.4       14.4     13.8      40
Services                                       10,7      4.0       37.5      17.0      20
Private consumption                             6.6      -2.2     -22.8       6.2      20                              as  s
-40
General government consumption                  2.9      -3.4       53.7     34.7      so0
Gross domestic investment                      11.4      -7.2      74.4       7.0     -s0
Imports of goods and services                  11.0       3.7     -54.0       1.3                -Exports       *-Imports
Gross national product                          6.1      -5.5      24.6      13.3
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are rnissing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
39



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                    JlatIon (%)
(% change)                                                                         e0                              A
Consumer prices                              30.2       1.8      22.0      9.0    sc
Implicit GDP deflator                        88.0       4.6      25.0     11.7     4 0
Govemnment finance                                                                 20
(% of GDP)                                                                         10
Currentrevenue                                   .      4.5      19.1     17.4      o
Current budget balance                                  A.6       6.0      3.4            91   92   93   94   95   96
Overall surplus/deficit                                - 18      -2.5     -6.6                     GDP def.    e  CPI
TRADE                                                      -
1975     1985      1925-    1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                             ..     119         47       62     450
Commodnty 1                                            86        38       44      400
Commodity 2                                   ..       17         4        9      350
Manufactures                                   ..       5         1        1      3m*
Total imports (cif)                                    274        238      249     250
Food                                          ..  41   56  50  200  li                                       I]J
Fuel and energy                               ..       51        22       25            *         **
Capital goods                                 ..       56        50       50       so
Export pnce index (1987=100)                   ..       77        163      154       0
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..       77        129      133          go  91  92  93  94  95  96
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..     100        126      115                  aExports   mlmports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996   1
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio 1%)
Exports of goods and services                  64      154         63       81      o
Imports of goods and services                 124      328        333      297
Resource balance                              -60     -174       -270     -216
Net income                                     -3       -6          9       _15     5
Net current transfers                          55      116       247        80
Current account balance,                                                            10
before official capital transfers            -9       -63       -14      -151
Financing items (net)                          22       78         60      169
Changes in net reserves                       -13      -14        46       -18
Memo.                                                                                 |-
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)            26      113         99      107
Conversion rate (local/USS)                  92.8    101.3      290.0    311.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions US$)                                                                     ComposKiton of total debt, 1996 (mill.
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           24      365      1,066    1,117   I                   G
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0               E       3
IDA                                          13      152       512       536              121
Total debt service                              0       16         24       38
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0
IDA                                           0        2         12        8                                     E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                  536
Official grants                               0        0         0         0          D
Official creditors                           12       71        54        37
Private creditors                             0       -3         0         0
Foreign direct investment                     0        0         0         0
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         0                        C
World Bank program                                                                                     I I
Commitments                                  18       17        50         0   i A-I8RD                      E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                 5       30        35       43       6 - IDA    D- Other mulblateral   F - Private
Prndpal repayments                            0        0          6        4      C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     5       29        29        38   1                                          1
Interest payments                             0        1         7         4
Net transfers                                 5       28        22        35
Development Economics                                                                                                8128197
40



t   2830'                         29o 292930'                                                              3000'                              3030'
l                                                                   t                 ~~~~~~~~UGANDA                             $\TNAI
RWANDA
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL                              OFCONGO
0 PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                              4 9i                                 1
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                                                           8ub
MAIN ROADS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
REP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
+Sr --_5 B/d, GitorS 0  50 1N 205  0 35 4
ZAMBIA  LAWI  O F  C O N G O                                                                 _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NCNVAf"N
I  ;f X'.''A'  / ,z'=' wS'_  W    <   81:a-L    /  g   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tin,adontepy,nt
3ZAMBIQUE0                                                                                MILES 0    5    10   15 -20s 25   30    The World hen    p 7a
3~~~~~~~~ ,, RU~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~n h eglsaisoZnytritsso
2~'n                         n"o'an edoseentoracepane f uc
'0                                                                                                                                                               boondaries.Cyan



