Report No. PID6101
Project Name                     Rwanda-Community Reintegration and (@+) ...
Development Project (CRDP)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Social
Project ID                       RWPE51931
Borrower                         Government of Rwanda
Implementing Agency              Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
Ministry of the Interior, Communal
Development and Reintegration
Mr. Emile Mutunzi, Acting Coordinator
Telephone: (250) 85307
Fax: (250) 84373
Date PID Updated                 November 23, 1998
Appraisal                        February 1998
Approval Date                    October 15, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background
Country Background
Rwanda's history of ethnic conflict culminated in genocide, civil war and massive
displacement of the population in 1994. The genocide that started in April 1994 took up
to one million lives, and the civil war that followed led to the flight of about two
million Rwandese to neighboring countries. A government of national unity, formed after
the end of the civil war in July 1994, affirmed its determination to work for peace and
national reconciliation, bring to justice the perpetrators of the genocide, facilitate the
resettlement of internally displaced persons and the return and reintegration of all
refugees, and reform and liberalize the economy.
The government encouraged all refugees to return, with assurances of their security and
right to the properties they had left behind. Following this, an estimated 800,000 exiles
of past conflicts (old case load refugees) returned to Rwanda in 1994 and 1995. However,
for over two years, the vast majority of the 1994 refugees (new case load) remained in the
camps outside Rwanda until civil wars in both Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (then Zaire) forced them to return. About 60,000 refugees returned from Burundi in
August 1996, and within less than two months at the end of 1996, 1.2 million refugees
returned from Tanzania and the DR Congo.
A prolonged period of armed conflict since 1990, culminating in the war and genocide of
1994, heightened and highlighted the structural contradictions and failures of an already
unsustainable economic system. GDP fell sharply in 1994, reflecting the devastating
impact of the genocide, civil strife and mass exodus. The economy rebounded in 1995 and
continued its upward swing in 1996, buoyed principally by relative political stability,
credible macroeconomic management and large external aid flows. This trend continued in
1997. Nevertheless, per capita GDP is still among the lowest in the world. Since the
massive return of refugees in 1996, internal insurgence and regional security issues have
left the political status quo in an unstable equilibrium. Despite a clouded political
outlook, national reconciliation and decentralization are central issues in the political
agenda.



Sector Background
Projects targeting development at the communal level have a long history in Rwanda.
Already in 1977, the former government initiated a Communal Development Fund to (a) effect
equalization among communes in order to reduce territorial disparities and (b) give
communes access to credit, either in the form of direct loans or by establishing a
Guarantee Fund to enable communes to borrow from banks. The Communal Development Fund has
never taken much root in the communities because of its centralized and top-down approach
and was replaced by a Intercommunal Development Credit which in turn was abolished in
1990.
In 1991, the former government created a Commune Solidarity Fund to start a new effort for
community development. This effort was interrupted by the war of 1994. The Commune
Solidarity Fund approach has been taken up by the new government which is currently in the
process of revitalizing and revising the Commune Solidarity Fund. The principles of the
Commune Solidarity Fund are: (a) sustainability of communal finances, (b) credibility of
the local administration, (c) transparent management of resources, (d) budget support to
the communes, (e) community responsibility for the entire project cycle, and (f)
assistance to community-based groups for accessing micro-credit. Unlike earlier attempts
at communal development, this effort starts with the people themselves identifying their
needs and building their own development organizations to address these needs and manage
resources.
Strategic Context
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) proposes that the Bank focus its efforts on several
themes, including: (a) the revitalization of the rural economy; (b) investment in human
resource development and capacity building; (c) selected infrastructure investments; and
(d) support to policy and regulatory reforms. These themes are central to the sustainable
growth of the country and will facilitate the short-term reintegration of refugees as well
as longer-term social and economic development.
The project is consistent with the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the
Executive Directors on April 7, 1998. It uses a creative approach to address the special
problems of the country and to enhance institutional capacities especially at the local
level. It targets the social and economic reintegration of refugees and vulnerable groups
and at the same time builds local mechanisms for revitalizing rural economies through
infrastructure and income-generating sub-projects, thereby placing strong emphasis on the
development of human resources. The project is one of the CAS's key lending operations.
2.      Objective
The government recognizes that persistent efforts must be made to reach out to communities
and social groups in order to build an environment of partnership and mutual trust. The
project development objective is, thus, to demonstrate that community reintegration and
development can effectively take place through a process of government decentralization
and community participation. Community-based development can only be sustainable in the
longer-term if and when the local population is fully integrated in project planning and
execution.  The success of the project will, thus, be judged by the degree of this
integration through: (a) decentralization, i.e. the transfer of decision-making and
expenditure authority from the central to the community level, (b) participation, i.e. a
partnership between the commune administrations and the local population around sectoral
planning and project implementation, and (c) the level of social capital, i.e. trust and
cooperation between local government and the community as well as within the community.
3.      Description
The project targets 12 vulnerable communes and comprises four components: (a) community
initiatives in each of the participating communes; (b) institution and capacity at the
- 2 -



central and local levels; (c) studies; and (d) project coordination and monitoring:
Community initiatives. Each of the participating communes will receive on average
approximately US$ 215,000 over three years to be used for: (a) infrastructure sub-projects
(such as the rehabilitation of health centers, schools and roads); (b) income-generating
sub-projects (for instance a livestock bank or micro-project initiated by a local group);
and (c) capacity building sub-projects (training, transport, communication, and office
rehabilitation and equipment). The communities will develop one-year community
development plans and decide upfront for each year the block allocation for each of the
three sub-project categories according to needs.
Institution and capacity building.   The project will finance participatory rural
appraisals and training activities to build local capacities for sustainable, self-reliant
development. The training program will include the following areas: (a) participatory
rural appraisal methods; (b) organizational management; (c) project management; (d)
financial management (including procurement and contract administration); and (e)
environmental awareness and training. When and where appropriate, conflict resolution
modules will be incorporated into the training activities. Training activities will be
undertaken at, and will benefit, the national level and, with a particular focus, the
community level.
Studies. The project will finance studies to deepen the understanding of the concept of
decentralization and participation, as they relate to the communities' roles in
socio-economic development. Their results will feed into sector policy planning and
project improvements as required.
Project coordination and monitoring. The project will provide critical equipment,
materials and supplies to the PCMU as well as cover its operating costs to enable it to
effectively carry out its coordination and monitoring responsibilities. It will also
finance two external evaluations (mid-term and final) and annual external audits.
4.      Financing
The project amounts to US$ 5.3 million, of which US$ 5.0 million are financed by IDA
through a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). Of the credit proceeds, 82.6w will finance
community initiatives; 7.49 institution and capacity building as well as studies; and 10.0
W project coordination and monitoring.   The counterpart contribution will be 5t of local
expenses, in cash or in kind.
5.      Implementation
Implementation will involve community members and the communal, prefectoral and national
levels of government. The commune level will be the primary entry point of the proposed
project. The central decision-making body of the project will be the Community
Development Committee (CDC) which will be established by the existing communal councils
with administrative and financial autonomy. The generic structure of the CDC will
comprise members of the local administration and members elected by the local population
(two per sector, of which at least one female).
The CDC may consist of (a) a management sub-committee and (b) an administration
sub-committee. Elections to the CDC and the two sub-committees will be held once a year.
Each CDC will, however, have the opportunity to adjust certain institutional elements and
implementation arrangements to the specific requirements during its inception meeting. In
each commune, the CDC will employ a Community Development Agent (CDA) and a CDC accountant
who will be responsible for assisting the CDC in all technical and financial aspects of
the project, respectively.
-3-



The prefectoral administrations will assist in the implementation of the proposed
interventions. The prefect's specific responsibilities include: (a) financial control and
internal audit; (b) program and sub-project monitoring; and (c) the provision of technical
assistance upon request. At the national level, a Project Coordination and Monitoring
Unit (PCMU) in MININTER will, among others, coordinate the activities country-wide;
administer a management information system for continuous monitoring of program
implementation and impact; evaluate and approve community development plans and
sub-projects; and replenish and audit the funds at the communal level. The PCMU will
comprise a National Coordinator, an accountant and one project officer for each
sub-project type as well as support staff.
The community development plans will be developed using the PRA method. They will
contain: (a) a brief description of the community and the status of its economy and social
and economic infrastructure; (b) a phased and costed program of reintegration and
development activities (block allocation by sub-project type and local operating expenses)
including a working list of sub-projects, based on the needs expressed by the communities;
and (c) a plan for the implementation of the community development plan, including a
disbursement schedule (financial plan) and the expected participation of the community.
The CDC can contract a partner agency to assist beneficiaries in the preparation and
implementation of sub-projects.
Monitoring will be one of the principal elements of the project cycle. The principal
responsibility for monitoring progress under the project will rest with the PCMU. At the
commune level, the CDA and the chefs de service will be the focal points. The prefects'
offices will assist in monitoring the activities to ensure that implementation proceeds
according to the project's objectives and in line with the prefecture's development plan.
Two external evaluations will be contracted to independent consultants, at mid-term and at
closing. They will be undertaken with the project beneficiaries and partner agencies and
follow a participatory method. The results of the evaluations will be used to re-direct
project implementation, if necessary, and guide the preparation of follow-up
interventions.
Financial management, accounting and internal and external auditing: Accounting and
internal auditing of all project-related activities will be undertaken by the PCMU at the
central level and by the Administration Sub-Committees at the local level. The
Administration Sub-Committee will also annually prepare an operating budget and a
financial plan with cash-flow requirements (disbursement schedule). Furthermore,
financial monitoring of the CDC accounts will be undertaken as part of the ongoing
responsibilities of the prefect's office. Moreover, the PCMU will be responsible to
contract annual external audits which will follow international standards acceptable to
the Bank to be done no later than six months after the closing of the preceding year.
6.      Sustainability
In a country where centralized authority essentially impeded the effective fight against
poverty at the community level and led to dramatic socio-political consequences, the
community development approach initiated by government appears the most promising avenue
to lead Rwanda and its people to a brighter future. The project will, therefore, support
the government by piloting methods for a long-term and autonomous Commune Solidarity Fund.
It will focus on (a) developing transparent financial management procedures at the
community level, (b) initiating community-based procurement and disbursement mechanisms,
and (c) strengthening capacities at central and local levels.
The project is based on the principle of autonomous community development that can be
sustained in the long-run when external resources may be scarcer. The project will,
therefore, support an internalized implementation structure that fosters a partnership
- 4 -



between local administration and local community. The key elements of the overall
strategy, thus, focus on fiscal decentralization, financial autonomy, and partnership.
The involvement of the local population in all project activities (from project design to
implementation) will be the best means to ensure motivation, interest, and hence social,
economic and financial sustainability.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
[Note:   Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the Bank and
other development agencies.]The project builds on the findings of the World Development
Report 1997 on "The State in a Changing World". To bridge the gap between the state and
its citizens, the World Development Report 1997 observes that improving the capability and
effectiveness of the state rests with mechanisms to (a) increase openness and
transparency, (b) strengthen incentives for participation in public affairs, and (c) bring
government closer to the people and communities it is meant to serve.
Lessons from completed Bank projects in Rwanda that have been incorporated into project
design and preparation include, among others: the inclusion of significant reforms more
conducive to participation; greater attention to be paid to institutional reform and
capacity building; full consideration of the stakeholders'; strong coordination mechanisms
at the central level; government commitment and involvement; attention to cost recovery
issues; availability of funds for technical assistance to local communities; and
coordination among external assistance agencies.
8.      Poverty Category
The project does not have a targeted poverty focus. Its primary beneficiaries are
communities that are vulnerable as a result of the massive return of refugees.
Nevertheless, beneficiaries for income-generating projects will be identified by the
communities on the basis of specific criteria of vulnerability. Special emphasis will be
given to the participation of women (survivors, widows).
9.      Environmental Aspects
The project has been placed in category 'B' and does not require an environmental
assessment. Environmental issues that affect sub-projects at the local level will be
identified, assessed and mitigated where appropriate. To the extent possible, the design
of sub-projects will take these factors into account, thereby minimizing negative
environmental impacts and promoting positive "win/win" situations. Relevant environmental
issues have been incorporated into the implementation of the project through the project
implementation manual and related mechanisms will be set up. Environmental aspects will
be integrated in the capacity building component at the local and central levels.
Targeted environmental education modules, ranging from awareness raising to technical
implications, will be developed.
10.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Task Team Leader
Mr. Markus Kostner
Post-Conflict Unit
Social Development Department
-5-



Telephone: (202) 473 5886
Fax: (202) 522 1669
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or components
may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 4, 1998.
- 6 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



