Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3138-RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Community Reintegration and Development Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 11, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3138-RW 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 11, 1998, between RWANDESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means: (i) a community represented by a Community 
Development Committee (as hereinafter defined) to which or for whose benefit a Grant 
(as hereinafter defined) is made, or proposed to be made; or (ii) a Community-Based 
Group (as hereinafter defined) to whom or for whose benefit a Sub-grant (as 
hereinafter defined) is made or proposed to be made; 
(b)
“Commune” means a legal entity of the Borrower, established pursuant to 
the Law of November 23, 1963, as amended, on Communal Organization, to exercise 
limited jurisdiction over a designated area and population within the territory of the 
Borrower; 
(c)
"Community-Based Group" means any group of two or more individuals 
residing in a Participating Commune that organizes itself for the purpose of 
submitting and implementing a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) under Part A(ii) of 
the Project; 
(d)
“Community Development Committee” means a committee made of members of 
the administration of a Participating Commune (as hereinafter defined) and elected 
representatives of its civil society, established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower as an autonomous entity with the required legal capacity and attributions to 
carry out all its activities regarding the implementation of the Project (as 
hereinafter defined);
(e)
“Community Development Plan” means a plan prepared by the Community 
Development Committee of a Participating Commune (as hereinafter defined) for purposes 
of the implementation of the Project, in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
sub-paragraph II.2(d) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(f)
"Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a 
Community Development Committee for the purpose of financing Sub-projects (as 
hereinafter defined) under Part A of the Project; 
(g)
"Grant Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower represented by 
PCMU (as hereinafter defined) and a Community Development Committee setting forth the 
terms and conditions under which proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to a 
Community Development Committee for the purpose of financing Sub-projects (as 
hereinafter defined) under Part A of the Project; 
(h)
"IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations; 
(i)
"MINECOFIN" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Planning;
(j)
“MININTER" means the Borrower’s Ministry of the Interior, Communal 
Development and Resettlement; 
(k)
“Participating Commune” means a Commune of the Borrower selected in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in sub-paragraph II.1(a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(l)
“Partner Agency” means a non-governmental organization or other public or 
private entity established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, selected in 
accordance with the criteria specified in sub-paragraph II.2(b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement to assist: (i) Community Development Committees of Participating Communes in 
the preparation and implementation of Community Development Plans or Sub-projects (as 
hereinafter defined) under Part A(i) and (iii) of the Project; or (ii) Community-Based 
Groups in the preparation and implementation of Sub-projects under Part A(ii) of the 
Project; 
(m)
“Prefectoral Administration” means the officials appointed by the central 
Government of the Borrower pursuant to Decree- Law No. 10/75 of March 11, 1975, as 
Page  3
amended, to represent it in, and participate in the administration of, designated 
Prefectures;
(n)
“PCMU” means the Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit established 
within MININTER for the purposes of the coordination and monitoring of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph I.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(o)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in 
sub-paragraph I.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and comprising the policies, 
procedures and guidelines which shall be followed by the Borrower in the 
implementation of the Project; 
(p)
“Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;  
(q)
"Sub-grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by a Community 
Development Committee to a Community-Based Group for the purpose of financing a 
Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) under Part A(ii) of the Project; and 
(r)
“Sub-project” means a reintegration or development activity proposed by a 
Community Development Committee or a Community-Based Group, within the scope defined 
in Part A of the Project and financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Sub-projects to be financed under 
Part A of the Project in respect of which withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  4
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2008, and ending June 15, 2038. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2018 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MININTER with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Page  5
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established a PCMU and appointed staff thereto having 
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association, including a national 
coordinator for the Project, an accountant and at least one of the project officers, 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Association to ensure proper monitoring of the Project activities; 
and
(c)
the Borrower has adopted, in accordance with its laws and regulations, 
detailed rules, satisfactory to the Association, setting forth the conditions for the 
establishment of Community Development Committees and the modalities of their 
operation.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O Box 158
Kigali
Rwandese Republic
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN-RWANDA
22687
MINFIN-RAW
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
Page  7
By /s/ Théogène Rudasingwa 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants for Sub-
   2,930,000
95% of amounts
projects under 
disbursed
Part A of the
Project
(2)
Goods under Part D
      62,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services,
     333,000
100%
training and audit
(4)
Incremental operating
     215,000
83%
costs
(5)
Unallocated
     160,000
TOTAL
   3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
 (c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, office administration and telecommunications, special account banking 
charges, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (i) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, and (ii) payments under Category (1) until and unless the Grant has been 
made in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in sub-paragraph II.2(f) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
Page  8
in more detail in the Project Implementation Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for Sub-projects, equipment 
and vehicles, consultants’ services and incremental operating costs under contracts 
not exceeding $15,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist returnees and other vulnerable 
groups through a process of community-based reintegration and development; and (b) to 
strengthen the capacity of local communities and the administration at the communal 
and national levels for the implementation of development projects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community Reintegration and Development
Provision of Grants for the financing of reintegration and development 
activities related to: (i) social and economic infrastructure, including health, 
education and transport infrastructure; (ii) income-generating projects; and (iii) 
specialized training based on the local needs of the Community Development Committees 
and the administration of the Participating Communes and office rehabilitation through 
acquisition of equipment and vehicles for the administration of the Participating 
Communes and Community Development Committees.
Part B:
Institution and Capacity Building
Improving the technical, financial management, organizational and operational 
capacities of PCMU and of the communal administration, Community Development 
Committees, and Community-Based Groups in the Participating Communes through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of a training program.
Part C:
Studies
Carrying out of studies on the role of local communities in the socio-economic 
development of the Borrower.
Part D:
Project Coordination and Monitoring
Coordination and supervision through: (a) acquisition of equipment, vehicles, 
materials and supplies for the PCMU and the Participating Communes; (b) the carrying 
out of external evaluations of the implementation of the Project that shall focus, 
inter alia, on the effectiveness of the participatory methods of the Project and its 
administrative arrangements and mechanisms.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Page  9
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and computer equipment may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines and as specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and as specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each of the first three contracts to be concluded by PCMU or a 
Community Development Committee or any contract for works exceeding an amount 
equivalent to $30,000, the following procedures shall apply:
(a)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(b)
prior to the execution of any contract by a supplier or contractor, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract;
(c)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
Page  10
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for all services with the exception of those for 
auditing may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for training and participatory rural appraisals under Parts B and C of 
the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)), and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$25,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)), 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
I.
Overall Project Implementation
Page  11
1.
The Borrower shall establish within the MININTER, not later than sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement, a PCMU to be headed by a national coordinator, which 
shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the project in accordance with 
the Project Implementation Manual, and in particular for: (a) evaluating and approving 
Community Development Plans submitted by the Community Development Committees of 
Participating Communes; (b) making disbursements of Grants to Community Development 
Committees under the Project and maintaining adequate financial records with respects 
to Grants financed by proceeds of the Credit; (c) preparing and submitting 
replenishment requests and withdrawal applications to the Association; (d) monitoring 
the implementation of the Project and submitting the required technical, financial and 
other reports to MININTER, MINECOFIN and to the Association; and (e) initiating 
studies and capacity building efforts necessary for the achievement of the objectives 
of the Project and the monitoring of its implementation.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that, at all times during the execution of the 
Project, (a) the position of national coordinator for the Project is filled by a 
person having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; and (b) 
PCMU staff include an accountant and project officers having qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) apply 
the criteria, policies, procedures, guidelines and standard contracts set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual in the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) not amend 
or waive the Project Implementation Manual, or any provision thereof, in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on a quarterly basis, beginning three months after the 
Effective Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;
(c)
review with the Association, every semester, starting six months after 
the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall request, the reports 
referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said reports and 
the Association views on the matter;
(d)
no later than eighteen months after the Effective Date, carry out jointly 
with the Association a mid-term review. Such review shall assess the overall progress 
in the implementation of the Project; the result of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities; and progress on procurement, disbursement and other financial management 
issues;
(e)
furnish to the Association through MININTER quarterly financial reports 
summarizing progress in the carrying out of the respective Community Development 
Plans, including Sub-projects reviewed and approved and progress made in the 
implementation of Project-related activities and disbursement of funds; and
(f)
submit annual reports to the Association, beginning on the date twelve 
months after the Effective Date. Such reports shall address, as a minimum, evaluation 
of Sub-projects during the preceding twelve-month period, implementation and 
supervision of Project activities, procurement, rate of disbursement and any specific 
operational issues that have presented difficulties and for which guidance from 
Page  12
MININTER has been sought.
II.
Preparation, Evaluation and Approval of Community Development Plans and 
Sub-Projects
1.
General Framework
(a)
Participating Communes shall be those selected by MININTER, in accordance 
with the following criteria and as more fully specified in the Project Implementation 
Manual: the prospective Commune: (i) must have been severely affected by the war and 
genocide, as evidenced, inter alia, by serious infrastructure destruction and/or a 
high number of returnees and other vulnerable groups; (ii) suffers from a serious lack 
of organizational capacity and a low level of organizational density; (iii) has a low 
socio-economic level; (iv) does not benefit from a partnership with an organization 
applying the participatory methods of the Project, as described in the Project 
Implementation Manual; and (v) has established a Community Development Committee with 
the required legal capacity as well as the administrative and financial autonomy 
necessary for the carrying out of all its activities regarding the implementation of 
the Project. In addition to the above criteria, PCMU may, for added flexibility in the 
selection of Participating Communes, also take into account additional criteria, 
including the presence of potential Partner Agencies in the prospective Commune, its 
size and economic potential.
(b)
All decisions regarding the implementation of the Project in a 
Participating Commune shall be taken by the Community Development Committee of that 
Commune.
(c)
The Borrower, through PCMU, shall cause each Community Development 
Committee to open and maintain an account at a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association. Community Development Committee accounts shall be separate from the 
accounts of the Participating Communes and only funds from the Special Account shall 
be deposited therein. Advances shall be made by PCMU to a Community Development 
Committee upon receipt and approval by PCMU of a quarterly work plan and funding 
requirement report based on the confirmed disbursement schedule submitted by the 
Community Development Committee as part of its Community Development Plan. Each 
subsequent advance shall be contingent upon satisfactory justification of the 
preceding period's advance with sufficient financial reporting to ensure that cost 
overruns or unexecuted projects are identified.
2.
Preparation, Evaluation and Approval of Community Development Plans
(a)
PCMU shall advertise publicly and request expressions of interest from 
potential Partner Agencies to assist Community Development Committees in the 
preparation of Community Development Plans.
(b)
Potential Partner Agencies shall be required to have: (i) proven 
experience in comparable community development activities in the territory of the 
Borrower and in participatory project design and implementation; (ii) proven technical 
expertise in their area of intervention; (iii) adequate financial and administrative 
capacity; and (iv) been registered and have the legal capacity to contract under the 
laws of the Borrower.
(c)
Following the selection of Partner Agencies in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in subparagraph II.2(b) of this Schedule, PCMU shall enter into 
contracts, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, with such Partner Agencies to assist Community Development Committees in 
the preparation and presentation of Community Development Plans.
(d)
A Community Development Plan shall contain: (i) a brief description of 
the relevant Participating Commune and the status of its economy and its economic and 
social infrastructure; (ii) a phased and costed program of reintegration and 
development activities, based on the needs expressed by the Community Development 
Committee of the concerned Participating Commune ; and (iii) a detailed implementation 
plan including a list, description, budget and disbursement schedule of the planned 
Sub-projects and a description of the role that Beneficiaries will play in the 
implementation of the Sub-projects.
Page  13
(e)
A Community Development Plan may be implemented by a Community 
Development Committee only after its has been examined and approved by PCMU.  In 
evaluating a Community Development Plan submitted by a Community Development 
Committee, PCMU shall verify whether said Community Development Plan: (i) is in 
conformity with the prefectoral development plan applicable to the Participating 
Commune where the Community Development Committee is located; (ii) envisages 
activities that reflect the needs and preferences of the populations of the concerned 
Participating Commune and can be implemented in accordance with the time-table and 
disbursement schedule included in the plan; and (iii) allows for periodic adjustment 
in content, funding requirements and implementation arrangements.
(f)
Following approval of a Community Development Plan by PCMU, it shall, as 
representative of the Borrower, enter into a Grant Agreement with the concerned 
Community Development Committee, in accordance with the terms and conditions specified 
in the model agreements attached to the Project Implementation Manual, which shall 
include the following:
(i)
the obligation of the Community Development Committee to carry out 
the 
implementation of the Community Development Plan with due 
diligence and 
efficiency, in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual as well as 
sound technical, financial, 
environmental and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound economic 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of every 
Sub-project financed out of the proceeds of the Grant;
(ii)
the obligation of the Community Development Committee to appoint 
and maintain 
at all times during the execution of the Project staff with 
qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to PCMU and the Association 
including a community 
development agent who shall assist in 
the preparation of capacity building and 
infrastructure 
Sub-projects, the evaluation of income generating Sub-projects 
and 
the monitoring of all Sub-projects; and an accountant who shall assist in 
all financial management issues.
(iii)
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and such goods, works and services 
shall be used 
exclusively for the purpose of carrying out of the Sub-projects;
(iv)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with 
the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the 
goods, works, sites, 
plants and construction included in any 
Sub-project, the operations thereof 
and any relevant records and 
documents;
(v)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the 
Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding 
the administration, operation 
and financial condition of any 
Sub-project; and
(vi)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Community 
Development Committee to use the proceeds of the Credit for 
a Sub-project upon 
the failure by the Community Development Committee to 
perform any of its 
obligations.
3.
Approval and Implementation of Sub-projects
(a)
The approval and implementation of Sub-projects shall be subject to the 
following procedures:
(i)
Sub-projects under Part A(i) and (iii) of the Project shall be 
prepared by the 
Community Development Committee within the framework 
of the Community 
Development Plan. They shall be reviewed by 
PCMU to ensure that they are 
consistent with the objectives of 
the relevant Community Development Plan and 
have been appraised in 
Page  14
accordance with the criteria, policies and procedures 
set forth in 
the Project Implementation Manual.  The Community Development 
Committee may proceed with the adoption and carrying out of a Sub-project only 
if it has received a positive evaluation of the Sub-project by PCMU. PCMU 
shall communicate the results of its  evaluation in accordance 
with the 
timetable specified in the Project Implementation 
Manual.
(ii)
Sub-projects under Part A(ii) of the Project shall be prepared by 
a 
Community-Based Group, with the assistance of a 
Partner Agency if necessary, 
and submitted to the Community 
Development Committee for its evaluation in 
accordance with the 
criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual 
and approval. 
The Community Development Committee may delegate to a 
subcommittee the power to approve Sub-projects under Part A(ii) of the 
Project. The decision approving the Sub-project shall set forth the rights and 
obligations of the Community Development Committee and the Beneficiary of 
the 
Sub-grant, in particular, the obligation of the Beneficiary of the 
Sub-grant 
to carry out the implementation of the Sub-project with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and the right of the Community 
Development Committee and PCMU to 
monitor and inspect the 
implementation of the Sub-project by the Beneficiary 
and its Partner 
Agency. In addition, a Community Development Committee may 
require a Beneficiary of a Sub-grant to make financial contributions, in such 
manner as shall be determined by the Community Development Committee, to a 
community revolving fund as may be set up by the Community 
Development 
Committee, once the Sub-project starts generating 
income. The Community 
Development Committee shall communicate 
to any Community-Based Group whose 
proposal for a Sub-project 
was rejected the reasons for such rejection and 
invite it to 
re-submit its proposal after making necessary changes if the 
rejection was due to technical deficiencies in the proposal.
(b)
A Community Development Committee may contract a Partner Agency to assist 
in the preparation and implementation of a Sub-project under Part A(i) and (iii) of 
the Project or, on behalf of a Beneficiary of a Sub-grant, in the preparation and 
implementation of a Sub-project under Part A(ii) of the Project.  Such contract shall 
provide, inter alia, for: (i) specific terms of reference for the Partner Agency based 
on the requirements of the Sub-project; (ii) the terms of payments by the Community 
Development Committee to the Partner Agency, which shall be based on a predetermined 
payment schedule that shall be part of every Sub-project proposal; and (iii) the right 
of the Community Development Committee to withhold payments to the Partner Agency and 
suspend or terminate the activities under the Sub-project if the Partner Agency fails 
to comply with its obligations under the contract.  Payments for expenditures incurred 
for Sub-projects under Part A(ii) of the Project shall be effected by the Community 
Development Committee on behalf of Beneficiaries of Sub-grants in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, unless the Beneficiaries 
have an account at a local bank satisfactory to the Community Development Committee 
and PCMU as well as adequate financial management capabilities.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that all procurement and contracting of 
consultants’ services to be undertaken by Community Development Committees and Partner 
Agencies for specific Sub-projects are carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual.
(d)
The Borrower shall closely monitor the performance of Community 
Development Committees and Partner Agencies and, to that end, shall require adequate 
reports from them and shall, through PCMU, undertake visits to the Participating 
Communes and to the local offices of the Partner Agencies.
III.
Capacity Building, Studies and Project Coordination and Monitoring
The Borrower shall implement Parts B, C and D of the Project in accordance with 
the timetable and specifications described in the Project Implementation Manual.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  15
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Grants, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $450,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR750,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
Page  16
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
