Document of
The World Bank                            L
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8172-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
JUNE 4, 1990
Asia:  Country Department IV (India)
Transport and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00           =   Paise 100
US$1.00           =   Rs 17.0
Rs 1,000,000          US$58,823
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)                  =   1,000 meters (m) = 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 Cubic Meter (m3)                =   1.31  cubic yard (cu yd) = 35.35 cu.ft.
1 Ton (t)                         =   1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 lbs
1 Kilovolt (kV)                   =   1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA)                1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megavolt Ampere (MVA)                1,000 kilovolt ampere (kVA)
1 Megawatt (KW)                   =   1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1 million watts
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)             =   1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour (MWh)                  1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)             =   1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Ton of Oil Equivalent (toe)   =   10 million kilocalories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BBMB     -    Bhakra Beas Management Board
CEA      -    Central Electricity Authority
CWC      -    Central Water Commission
GOI      -    Government of India
IDA      -    International Development Association
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -    Local Competitive Bidding
LIB      -    Limited International Bidding
MIS      -    Management Information System
NHPC     -    National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
NJPC     -    Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation
NPTC     -    National Power Transmission Corporation
NREB     -    Northern Region Electricity Board
NRLDC    -    Northern Region Load Dispatch Center
NRPG     -    Northern Region Power Grid
NTPC     -    National Thermal Power Corporation
PFC      -    Power Finance Corporation
REC      -    Rural Electrification Corporation
SEBs     -    State Electricity Boards
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:         National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC).
Amount:                 US$485 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayment over 20 years, including 5 years' grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:       Government of India (GOI) to NHPC, approximately
US$430 million, with repayment over 15 years,
including three years' grace, at an interest rate of
not less than 14Z per annum. GOI bears the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks.
Project Description:  The primary aim of the proposed project is to improve
operating efficiency, reliability and quality of
seryice in India's Northern Region electric system.
These improvements will be effected through the
provision of: (a) transmission lines and substations;
(b) a load dispatch system to control power system
operations; and (c) an economic and commercial
framework to encourage better use of the available
energy. The project includes over 3,000 circuit km
of high voltage transmission lines, 2,500 MVA of
substation capacity, several control centers, a
communication system and compensatory afforestation.
The project will strengthen NHPC's organization and
help develop the newly formed National Power
Transmission Corporation (NPTC). Technical risks
associated with the use of 765 kV lines in India for
the first time, and the use of 400 kV lines at high
altitudes are being managed by employing suitable
consultants. Similarly, project management risks
associated with the load dispatch system will be
managed by using consultants, but there remains the
possibility of slow implementation on this part of
the project because of its complexity and the need to
interface with several agencies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii--
Local      Foreign      Total
…US$ Million--------
Estimated Costs a/
Preliminary and Civil Works                       31.4         3.1        34.5
Compensatory Afforestation                         1.6         0.0         1.6
Transmission Lines                              159.3        248.6       407.9
Substations                                      28.1         67.5        95.6
Tools and Equipment                                1.1         4.2         5.3
Communications Equipment                           1.4         4.1         5.5
Load Dispatch Equipment                           36.3        34.1        70.4
Training                                           0.6         1.7         2.3
Consulting Services                                0.0         4.5         4.5
Engineering and Administration                    66.7         0.0        66.7
Total Base Costs                              326.5        367.8       694.3
Physical Contingencies                            24.4        38.1        62.5
Price Contingencies                               43.3       140.2       183.5
Total Project Cost                            394.2        546.1       940.3
Interest During Construction                      54.2       185.3       239.5
Total Financing Required                      448.4        731.4    1,179.8
a/ Including taxes and duties of about US$132.1 million equivalent.
Financing Plan
Source                                Local       Foreign      Total
--------US$ Million--------
IBRD                                      -        485.0       485.0
Japanese Grant Facility                  0.0         1.1         1.1
NHPC                                    86.3         0.0        86.3
GOI                                   362.1        245.3       607.4
Total                              448.4       731.4    1,179.8
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year  FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Annual              20.0    43.2    85.4   101.4    88.8    81.4    48.8    16.0
Cumulative          20.0    63.2   148.6   250.0   338.8   420.2   469.0   485.0
Rate of Return: 15Z



INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    SECTORAL CONTEXT  ..........................................                    1
Overview .............................................                   1
Electricity Supply and Demand .........................                  2
Organization of the Power Sector ......................                  3
Financial Performance and Tariffs .....................                  4
Power Sector Planning and Operations ..................                  6
Institutional Management and Operations ...............                  7
GOI's Strategy in the Power Sec.or ....................                  7
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector ...............                  8
Bank Group Participation ..............................    10
II.  THE BENEFICIARIES ..........................................                   11
Introduction ..........................................    11
National Hydroelectric Power Corporation  (NHPC) .......    11
Northern Region Electricity Board (NREB) ..............    18
III. THE PROJECT .................................................    20
Project Setting .......................................    20
Project Objectives ....................................    21
Project Description ...................................    22
Project Engineering ...................................                 22
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule ......    23
Environment, Forestry, Resettlement,
Safety and Welfare ..................................                25
Project Costs .........................................                 26
Project Financing .....................................                 28
Procurement ...........................................                 29
Disbursements .........................................    31
Project Operation .....................................                 32
Project Risks .................. : ......................    32
Project Supervision and Monitoring ....................                 33
This report was prepared by Messrs. Alfred Gulstone (Senior Power Engineer),
C.K. Teng (Financial Analyst), and Mark Tomlinson (Economist). Peer
Reviewers were Messrs. Edwin Moore (Principal Power Engineer) and Karl
Jechoutek (Senior Economist). Mr. Moore along with Mr. George Knight (Load
Dispatch Consultant) participated in the appraisal mission (April 1989) and
contributed to the report. Mrs. Nandita Parshad of the World Bank Resident
Mission in New Delhi assisted with the economic analysis.



-ii-
Page No.
IV.  FINANCE ....................................................    34
National Hydroelectric Power Corporation ..............    34
Background .........................................    34
Past and Present Financial Performance .............    34
Financial Recovery Program and
Forecast Financial Position ......................    37
Investment Financing Plan ..........................    40
V.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..........................................    42
Electricity Demand in the Northern Region .............    42
Least-Cost Analysis ...................................    42
Program Analysis ......................................    42
Program Costs ......................................    43
Program Benefits ...................................    43
Economic Rate of Return ...............................    44
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..............................    45
Agreements   ...........................................                                           45
Recommendation ........................................    45
ANNEXES
1.1  All India: Electricity Supply and Demand ...................    46
1.2  Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Sector ..........    48
2.1 Organization Structure of National Hydroelectric
Power Corporation (as of June 30, 1989) ..................    49
2.2  New Organization Structure of NHPC .........................    50
2.3  New Transmission Department of NHPC ........................    52
2.4  Proposed Organization for Project ..........................    54
3.1  Project Details ............................................    55
3.2  Implementation Schedules ...................................    69
3.3  Project Costs ..............................................    74
3.4  Procurement Schedules ......................................    84
3.5  Schedule of Disbursements ..................................   101
3.6  Review of System Studies ...................................   103
3.7  Notes from Satellite Feasibility Study .....................   109
3.8  Need for Unified Load Dispatch Scheme ......................   110
4.1  NHPC's Investment Program ..................................   116
5.1  Economic Analysis ..........................................   126
6.1  Related Documents in the Project File ......................   138
MAP: IBRD 21690



INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Overview
1.01     India's power systems have an installed capacity of over 59,000 MW
and in FY89 provided about 221,000 GWh of energy, making them comparable in
size to the power sectors of France, the United Kingdom and to all the
power sectors in Sub-Saharan Africa. Despite impressive progress in
expanding supply over the last few years (installed capacity has increased
from 32,000 MW in FY82 and energy availability from 114,000 GWh), shortages
persist estimated to be equivalent to about 21X of the maximum power demand
met and to 11X of energy demand. The quality of electricity supplies also
remains mostly unsatisfactory. In large measure, supply shortages reflect
deficiencies in retail power tariffs. Despite recent and encouraging
action taken in increasing tariffs in states such as Maharashtra, the
average level of tariffs is in general still low, nor do tariff structures
encourage economical patterns of consumption (paras 1.13 and 1.14). Poor
supply quality is exacerbated by weakness in sector planning, particularly
of transmission and distribution. Preparation of the proposed project has
assisted with finalizing a National Transmission Plan that will help
ameliorate these weaknesses. The formation of the new National Power
Transmission Corporation (NPTC) also will help to rationalize the
development of transmission facilities. In order to satisfy a greater
proportion of demand, improve service quality and continue rural
electrification, GOI plans to install an additional 80,000 MW of capacity
by the year 2000. This will cost about US$150 billion and will claim
between 25Z and 30X of total allocations under the Eighth and Ninth Plans
(compared with about 20X under the Seventh Plan). Implementing this large
an investment program will put tremendous pressure on the government's
finances and will pose a managerial and technical challenge for the
sector's central and state-owned electric utilities.
1.02     In parallel with expanding electricity supply, the sector is now
making encouraging progress in increasing efficiency. For example, in
FY88, plant load factor averaged 56% as compared with only 44Z in FY81.
Each one kW of generating capacity therefore now provides 1050 kWh (271)
more electricity annually than in FY81. Similarly, the rate of fuel
consumption by thermal stations has been cut 10% since FY80. It now
requires 720 tons of coal to generate one GWh, whereas in FY80, 802 tons of
coal (of equivalent quality) were required. For the sector as a whole,
this improvement provides an annual saving of approximately 12 million tons
of coal, worth about US$280 million. The improvements in load factors and
fuel consumption reflect healthy improvements in plant maintenance and
operations and are commendable in view of the deteriorating quality of coal
the sector is receiving. A significant institutional development has been
a 34% cut in the number of employees per thousand consumers; from 28.7 in
FY81 to 19.0 at present. Sector efficiency has also improved, though more
modestly, through increases in tariff levels relative to economic supply
costs (para. 1.13).  Between FY82 and FY88 (the last year for which



-2-
complete data are available), the average level of retail tariffs doubled
to 63 paise per kWh through increases which in real terms average 3.5X per
year. Rates for industrial and commercial consumers (over 60% of total
consumption) are now about 80% of marginal cost. Agricultural rates remain
the weakest element of the tariff structure, as they continue to be heavily
subsidized. States having a high proportion of agricultural load (for
example, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and Haryana) consequently continue to have
the lowest tariffs. For example, in FY88 the average tariff level in
Punjab and Haryana was only 45 paise per kWh, compared with 72 paise
per kWh in Maharashtra, which, as noted in para 1.01, have been increased
further in April 1990.
1.03     Despite these efficiency gains, considerable scope remains for
further improvements in the operating performance of India's power
utilities, especially in the performance of the State Electricity Boards
(SEBs). Key constraints are the divided responsibility (between GOI and
the States) for power development, political interference in the operations
of the SEBs and weaknesses in the financial structure of the sector. These
constraints undermine financial performance and hold down resource
mobilization. In addition, their physical impact is that India's power
systems provide less power and of a poorer quality than they should be able
to, and at higher cost. Economic costs of shortages and poor quality
supplies are exacerbated by inefficient end-use of power - the result
mostly of a lack of commercial incentives in many markets and subsidized
power prices. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), a few private
utilities and, to a lesser extent, the National Hydro Electric Power
Corporation (NHPC), are the only exceptions in this otherwise
unsatisfactory picture (para. 1.12).
1.04     GOI is aware of the causes of the remaining inefficiencies and
their constraints on future sector development. Under the Seventh Plan,
there have been encouraging signs of a strengthening resolve to address
these constraints in a substantive way. GOI has mounted initiatives to
bring financial discipline to the SEBs (para. 1.11) and has accelerated
development of the efficient central utilities, particularly NTPC. GOI has
also formed the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) to mobilize additional
resources for SEBs willing to make needed institutional reforms, and it
plans to ease regulatory and financial disincentives to private sector
participation in power supply (para. 1.10). Finally, GOI is reviewing its
fuel supply policy for the sector. As well as considering fuel imports,
GOI has decided to sanction more domestic natural gas for power generation:
8,000 MW of gas-fired plant is to be added under the Eighth Plan. A
principal challenge facing GOI under the Eighth Plan is to improve the
balance in sector development between expansion and efficiency improvement.
To achieve this, the sector's institutional development will have to keep
pace with the rate of physical expansion. To meet the sector's enormous
investment requirements, GOI must also realize more of the sector's
potential to mobilize resources, in particular from the private sector.
Electricity Supply and Demand
1.05     In FY89, power generation net of consumption by power stations was
221,000 GWh from an installed capacity of over 59,000 MW (Annex 1.1).
Almost 71X of generation was provided from coal-fired capacity and 26Z was
hydroelectricity. The balance was provided by generation from oil-fired



-3-.
and gas-fired capacity and a small amount of nuclear electricity.  System
losses have increased to more than 22Z of net generation as a result of
inadequate investment in transmission and distribution and rapid expansion
of rural electrification.
1.06     Electricity consumption has been growing approximately twice as
fast as commercial energy consumption. Between FY82 and FY88, electricity
consumption increased by 8.91 per year in terms of energy consumed and 7.6Z
per year in terms of maximum load (Annex 1.1). The principal consumption
shares in FY88 were: industry, 55Z; agriculture, 18Z; domestic, 14Z; and
commerce, 8Z.  Shortages in FY88 were estimated to be equivalent to about
11Z of energy supplied and 21? of the maximum demand met. Energy and power
demands are projected to increase by approximately 9% per year through 2000
and to continue to be supply-constrained, although to a lesser extent than
at present. Demand is expected to increase most quickly among domestic and
agricultural consumers, so the consumption shares of industry and commerce
are both expected to fall slightly. Continued increases in electricity
tariffs (between FY81 and FY88, tariffs increased in real terms on average
by 3.5% per year) may slow demand growth and ease pressure on supplies.
However, the relief will be offset by the ease with which industry and
commerce are able to pass tariff increases through to customers.
Organization of the Power Sector
1.07     Responsibility for electricity supply is shared between GOI and
the states.  GOI controls the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), NTPC,
NHPC, PFC, the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), the newly created
National Power Transmission Corporation (NPTC), and (through CEA) the
Regional Electricity Boards (REBs).  CEA is part of the Department of Power
within the Ministry of Enetgy. NTPC, NHPC, PFC, REC, and NPTC are wholly-
owned government undertakings reporting to the Department of Power. The
states control the SEBs, which are autonomous government undertakings.  In
addition, there is a small number of center-state joint venture
organizations which have been established to undertake particular projects.
Of these, the Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation, set up to implement the
Nathpa Jhakri Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3024-IN), is the most recently
created.
1.08     Public Utilities.  CEA's objectives are to develop national power
policy and coordinate sector development. It is responsible for vetting
investment proposals, promoting integration of regional power systems,
providing consulting support to the SEBs, training sector personnel, and
for managing research and development. CEA's effectiveness has been
severely limited by shortages of skilled staff and resources. NTPC and
NHPC are bulk supply utilities which sell power to the SEBs. NTPC has
grown rapidly and provides about 13% of India's total power supplies.  It
has a good track record for implementing major projects and has gained a
reputation for being efficient.  NTPC also enjoys a strong financial
position.  NHPC, on the other hand, is developing relatively slowly and has
not yet enjoyed the same success.  Principally, this is because states
control water rights and are reluctant to relinquish hydro projects to
NHPC. NHPC's development also has been constrained by the limited
technical resources available for preparing large hydro projects. REC
coordinates rural electrification and provides financial and technical



-4-
expertise for SEB schemes.  REC finances more than 70Z of rural
electrification investments, but has proven to be relatively weak in its
technical and financial operations. To pursue institutional reforms of the
SEBs, in 1986 GOI established the Power Finance Corporation (PFC).  PFC is
expected to promote improvements in SEBs' operations and finances through
specific conditionality linked to its lending operations.  NPTC is to be
responsible for building, maintaining, and coordinating the operation of
transmission systems.  Initially, NPTC will be assigned responsibility for
the 400 kV and 220 kV transmission systems associated with NTPC's and
NHPC's power stations. At a later date, GOI intends to extend NPTC's
responsibilities to include the 400 KV and 220 kV transmission systems
presently owned by the SEBs.
1.09     The SEBs generate about 75Z of total supplies and provide most of
the distribution to final consumers. Although supposedly autonomous, in
practice the SEBs are under state government control as regards their
investments, tariffs, borrowings, and salary and personnel policies.  The
SEBs are grouped into five regional systems, each coordinated by an REB.
Activities coordinated regionally include states' generation schedules,
overhaul and maintenance programs, power transfers and concomitant tariffs.
1.10     Private Utilities.  Private utilities at present make only a
marginal contribution to public electricity supply, though private captive
generation is extensive (equivalent to about 152 of public supply).  GOI is
attempting to increase private participation in public electricity supply
to mobilize additional resources and to secure the potential efficiency
gains. To this end, GOI is reviewing a White Paper which proposes various
steps for easing the regulatory and financial disincentives to private
investment in power supply. , One of the steps proposed is to increase from
12Z to 15Z the returns on their capital base that private utilities are
permitted to earn.
Financial Performance and Tariffs
1.11     In FY87, only two SEBs made a profit (Maharashtra and Orissa).
SEBs as a whole incurred a combined loss before subsidies of approximately
Rs 15,500 million (equivalent then to US$1.17 billion).  This corresponded
to a return on net fixed assets at historic cost of 5.5Z before interest,
and -9.3Z after interest.  The poor results partly reflect that almost all
of SEBs' capital expenditures are financed by debt. As a first step in
improving SEBs' finances, GOI now requires SEBs to earn a minimum 3Z return
on net assets at historic cost (after interest and taxes). 1/  In terms of
the Bank's method of calculation, this 3X minimum return corresponds to a
return on assets at historic cost of between 6Z and 8Z and a return on
revalued assets of between 4Z and 6Z.  Although modest, this target
represents a substantial improvement on existing performance and a very
difficult challenge for many of the SEBs. The Bank will continue to press
for state-specific programs to enable SEBs, at a minimum, to achieve the 3Z
return specified in the Act.  The Bank will also continue to support ad-hoc
initiatives to improve understanding of the factors underlying poor
financial performance of the SEBs.
1/ GOI does not accept the principle of revaluation of assets.



-5-
1.12     The financial performances of NTPC and NHPC are considerably
stronger than those of the SEBs, though not wholly satisfactory. In FY88,
NTPC earned a return of 16.4Z before interest on net assets at historic
cost (most less than five years old), equivalent to a return of 12.8% on
revalued assets. NHPC earned a return before interest of 12.5Z on net
assets at historic cost. However, in the five-year period from FY84 to
FY88, NTPC's net internal resources generation after debt service and
working capital financing was equivalent to only 6% of investment
expenditures and that of NHPC to only 1Z of capital expenditures. These
modest contributions reflect the size of the Corporations' revenue bases
relative to their investment programs and their supply contracts with SEBs,
which include essentially fixed prices for five years. Significant
improvements in NTPC's and NHPC's cash flow positions are expected over the
next few years as several current projects are completed. Unfortunately,
both NTPC and NHPC are faced with high accounts receivables from most of
the SEBs which they supply. GOI is implementing a recovery plan that will
bring down NTPC's receivables to the equivalent of two months' billings.
During negotiations, GOI also agreed with the Bank on a recovery period
during which NHPC will reduce its receivables to the equivalent of three
months' billings. The plans will also contain provisions to avoid
receivables accumulating in the future.
1.13     The average level of SEBs' tariffs is approximately 60-70Z of long
run marginal cost (LRMC); an improvement from about 502 of LRMC in 1981.
Tariff levels will continue to improve as rates are increased to meet GOI's
minimum rate of return target. However, even though GOI accepts the
principle that energy prices should 'reflect true costs", social objectives
have sharply limited progr,ess towards economic power pricing. The
structure of SEBs' tariffs also remains unsatisfactory. Tariffs as yet do
not distinguish between the costs of supplying peak and off-peak energy,
although the introduction of time-of-day pricing for large consumers seems
likely in Maharashtra under the proposed Private Power Utilities Project I.
Also, tariffs are often excessively complex and invariably provide deep
subsidies for low voltage consumers. Moreover, very little has been done
as yet to improve tariff structures through consumer load management,
although, here again, there are encouraging prospects in Maharashtra.
Unfortunately, resistance to economic power pricing in India is such that
progress in pricing reform is likely to continue to be slow.
1.14     NTPC and NHPC levy separate tariffs for each power station.  Each
tariff is set to recover the fixed and variable costs of SEBs' contracted
purchases. As marginal costs are increasing, a station's tariff declines
in relation to marginal cost with the vintage of the plant. Currently, the
average of NHPC's tariffs is approximately 50% of marginal cost. As NHPC's
present tariffs combine fixed and variable costs into a single rate,
tariffs do not distinguish between the costs of supplying firm as opposed
to seasonal energy. However, over the last year, GOI has been reviewing
the principles on which NTPC should set its tariffs. Throughout this
review, the Bank has been involved in a dialogue with GOI on the
suitability for India of alternative tariff structures. Specific
recommendations in this regard have recently been placed before government
and it is widely expected that GOI soon will recommend for NTPC
introduction of tariffs distinguishing between fixed and variable supply



-6-
costs of the type advocated by the Bank. This change would be an important
step towards ensuring that NTPC's stations are utilized efficiently, and
towards rationalizing operations of the regional grids. During
negotiations, GOI also stated that it will, in parallel, restructure NHPC's
tariffs as necessary to ensure the continued efficient use of the
Corporation's power stations.
Power Sector Planning and Operations
1.15     India plans power systems development on a regional basis to
capture economies of scale and to take advantage of the diversity in timing
of peak power demands by the states. To facilitate this integrated
planning, CEA has prepared regional least-cost generation development plans
and, in consultation with the Bank, has prepared a National Transmission
Plan. These plans are important steps forward, but do require refinement
and regular updating. For example, least-cost generation planning is
undertaken in financial rather than economic terms and some of the data
used do not appear to be representative of system conditions. Moreover,
the coordination of power sector planning needs to be tightened: Five-Year
Plans have included fewer projects than GOI's regional economic plans and
even fewer projects have been included in SEBs' capital budgets.
Inadequate implementation planning has led to still fewer projects being
executed. Frequently, shortfalls of resources have fallen most heavily
upon transmission and distribution projects. The resulting imbalance in
supply development has aggravated poor supply quality, and the persistent
power deficits have stimulated investment in captive generating plant,
which usually is less economic than public supply.
1.16     The Bank has consistently encouraged integrated development of
India's power systems and is continuing to stress the importance of
improving planning. Analyses undertaken by CEA for Bank appraisals have
exposed CEA to the more rigorous planning techniques employed by power
utilities outside India. The results have been a gradual improvement in
the quality of CEA's project appraisals and (often substantial) economies
in the technical design of projects. The Bank also is emphasizing the
importance of integrating power pricing and load management with investment
planning. In this regard, economic sector work being undertaken by the
Bank 2/ will help identify scope for further improvements in sector
planning.
1.17     In concert with improved planning, the Bank is emphasizing the
need to integrate power system operations regionally. At present, SEBs
operate largely independently, so most of the potential economies from
integration are not being realized. To facilitate regional operations, GOI
is encouraging states within each region to reach agreement on technical
operating parameters. However, progress is likely to be slow while severe
power shortages persist. To improve coordination of operations in the
Northern Region, CEA has agreed to implement a program that would provide
for completion and comprehensive upgrading of the facilities and systems
needed to monitor and coordinate operation of the Northern Region power
system. A similar initiative is planned for the Eastern Region through the
2/ An economic sector work study entitled "Long Term Issues Facing The
Power Sector" is expected to be completed by the end of 1990.



-7-
forthcoming Regional Power Systems Project. A third initiative is being
implemented in the Western Region in parallel with the Maharashtra Power
Project (Loan 3096-IN).  National coordination of generation operations is
likely to be achieved only in the long term.  The first inter-regional
link, between the Northern and Western Regions, is a component of the
Central Power Transmission Project (Loan 2283-IN) and has recently been
commissioned.
Institutional Management and Operations
1.18     The institutional and financial development of the power sector
has not kept pace with the physical growth of the sector.  The structure
and capabilities of sector entities require strengthening and the roles of
some entities need refocussing (for example, CEA and REC). Most of the
SEBs have qualified engineering staff but lack experienced personnel for
financial planning and control.  Pay differentials with the private sector
make it difficult for them to recruit and retain the necessary staff.
SEBs' management practices also tend to be outmoded and inadequate. Even
after implementation of the commercial accounting system, there is still
too little use of accounting information for managerial purposes.
Overstaffing also remains a problem, although the SEBs have made
significant progress on this over the last few years.  Institutional reform
is a principal objective of the Bank's power sector strategy, and the Bank
is limiting its operations with SEBs to those Boards which, together with
their state governments, are committed to reform.
1.19     The SEBs have made significant improvements in utilizing
generating plant, despite the generally poor condition of plant and the
deteriorating quality of coal.  The poor condition of plant can be
attributed to manufacturing deficiencies, difficulties in procuring spare
parts and persistent capacity shortages, which have obliged SEBs to run
plant through normal maintenance periods.  Transmission and distribution
systems also mostly are in poor condition, reflecting inadequate
maintenance, overloading due to inadequate investment and equipment
deficiencies. GOI recently has initiated a program to rehabilitate
30 thermal power stations. However, because of the divided responsibility
for the sector, GOI is less able unilaterally to effect improvements in
transmission and distribution.  The newly established NPTC is viewed by GOI
as a vehicle that will overcome this inability and help rationalize
transmission development.  Through its program of sector work, 3/  the Bank
has identified recurring efficiency constraints of a technical nature, and
future projects with SEBs will continue to include rehabilitation
components designed to ease these constraints.
GOI's Strategy in the Power Sector
1.20     The Five-Year Plan constitutes the only formal statement of
India's energy and power policies. While the Eighth Five-Year Plan has yet
to be finalized, preliminary indications suggest little change in
objectives from those reflected in the Seventh Plan. The principal energy
objectives are likely to remain to: (a) develop supplies at a rate
commensurate with economic growth and social needs; (b) substitute
3/ Specifically, the Power Sector Efficiency Review, dated November 30,
1989.



-8-
indigenous energy for imported fuels wherever economically feasible; and
(c) encourage rational and efficient energy use.  Power policies are
governed by essentially the same objectives, although alleviating India's
acute power shortages probably will continue to dominate GOI's short-term
strategy.  Over the longer term, achievement of least-cost sector
development assumes greater importance.
1.21     Specific investment objectives under the Eighth Plan are likely to
include:
(a) accelerating implementation of ongoing projects and the
development of new hydro projects (para 1.08);
(b) encouraging construction of gas-fired plant (para 1.04);
(c) continuing rehabilitation of thermal plant (para 1.19);
(d) improving the quality of coal supplied to power stations;
(e) increasing investments in transmission and distribution
relative to investments in generation (para 1.19); and
(f) continuing modest development of nuclear power.
1.22     Organizational, institutional and financial issues are much less
clearly defined and GOI still needs clearly defined strategies in these
areas. Although GOI has limited ability to effect improvements
unilaterally, it is likely to pursue at least two specific initiatives
under the Eighth Plan:
(a) expanding the role of efficient central sector institutions,
particularly NTPC, NHPC and NPTC (para. 1.08); and
(b) giving more favorable consideration to proposals for private
sector participation in power supply (para. 1.10).
GOI's recent initiative in forming the PFC will also begin to yield results
under the Eighth Plan.  The PFC will pursue institutional reform of the
SEBs through subjecting loan beneficiaries to conditionality designed to
improve efficiency and financial performance. In addition, GOI's
stipulation of a minimum 32 rate of return for SEBs requires both states
and the SEBs to work more concertedly to improve SEBs' financial
performance.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector
1.23     The GOI's strategy outlined above is sound in its broad objectives
and direction but does not address all of the sector's deficiencies in a
sufficiently determined way.  Additional efforts are needed in the areas of
institutional development, finance, planning, pricing and load management.
The pervasive nature of constraints in these areas suggest that a sector-
wide approach should be sought. However, the relative independence of the
states from GOI makes it difficult to achieve progress through involvement
exclusively with central agencies. As a result, the Bank is pursuing a



-9 -
more direct involvement with selected SEBs which, together with their state
governments, are committed to reform and where state-specific programs can
be designed to address areas of deficiency. Tariffs and financial
performance will continue to be key components of the Bank's sector
strategy. However, there are also the areas in which progress is most
difficult to achieve, since the states have little incentive to improve
SEBs' financial performance: the states bear the political cost of
unpopular tariff increases, whereas any resulting tax revenues would
benefit GOI.
1.24     In parallel with lending to selected SEBs, the Bank plans to
continue to support central sector entities, both to provide the
institutional strengthening these entities require and to promote
efficiency in SEBs with which the Bank does not have a direct relationship.
To date, NHPC's and NTPC's operations have been remarkably efficient though
both corporations are facing strains emanating from their rapid growth and
will benefit from future Bank support. Involvement with the PFC also
offers the Bank a means of pursuing efficiency improvements in SEBs with
which it is not involved directly. Consequently, the Bank is planning to
support PFC in the expectation that GOI will require PFC's lending
operations to be linked closely to institutional strengthening of its
borrowers. In a wider context, the Bank believes a review is needed of
CEA's organization and the desirability of separating its regulatory and
investment planning activities. This review is included in the Bank's
program of economic sector work (para 1.16).
1.25     In addition to addressing areas where GOI's strategy appears
deficient, the Bank also is attempting to catalyse progress in remaining
areas of GOI's strategy. Specific objectives the Bank has adopted are to
assist:
(a) integration of power systems operations - the proposed
project will improve coordination of SEBs' operations in the
Northern Region;
(b) acceleration of hydro development - the proposed project
would provide transmission capacity to link major new
hydroelectric projects with load centers;
(c) development of international projects to tap low-cost sources
of power, such as the Karnali hydro project in Nepal and the
Pancheshwar hydro project between India and Nepal;
(d) strategy developments that require coordinated actions by
organizations within and outside the power sector - priority
areas are improvements in coal quality and transportation,
and the use of natural gas for power generation;
(e) development of private sector power generation - the Private
Power Utilities Project I aims to mobilize funds not
available to public power utilities and will improve
commercial arrangements between private utilities and SEBs;
and
(f) development of a strategy for addressing the environmental
and sociological aspects of power development.



-10-
Bank Group Participation
1.26     The Bank has made 29 loans (US$5.72 billion) and 18 IDA Credits
(US$2.31 billion) for power projects in India (Annex 1.2). So far, 27
projects have been completed: 20 for generation; 4 for transmission; and
3 for rural electrification. Projects currently under implementation
include: 9 for generation, 3 of which are hydro; 2 for transmission; and 6
which include a mix of generation transmission and distribution.
1.27     Project Completion Reports for the first three NTPC projects--
Singrauli (Credit 685-IN), Korba (Credit 793-IN) and Ramagundam (Credit
874-IN and Loan 1648-IN)--recognized the achievements and success of NTPC
in implementing these projects and the favorable impact central sector
operations have on sector efficiency. Performance audits conducted for the
Second Power Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN) and the First and Second
Rural Electrification Projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN) highlighted the
difficulties of effecting institutional improvements without a clear
division of responsibility between central entities and SEBs and without
agreed mechanisms for project cost recovery. Project Completion Reports
show the Third and Fourth Transmission Projects (Credits 377-IN and 604-IN)
experienced similar difficulties; despite some progress, in general, the
SEBs did not respond to GOI's initiatives. The lessons learned from these
projects have an important bearing on the organization, role and authority
that will be needed by NPTC for it to be able to discharge its role
efficiently.  The proposed project will provide opportunities for the Bank
to comment upon these aspects of the commercial establishment of NPTC.



-11-
II. THE BENEFICIARIES
Introduction
2.01     The Government of India (GOI) will onlend about US$430 million of
the loan to the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC), and will
retain about US$55 million of the loan to finance the load dispatch
component which the Northern Region Electricity Board (NREB) will implement
under the proposed project.  GOI established NHPC in November 1975 as a
public sector enterprise under GOI's ownership and the Department of
Power's supervision.  NHPC's main function is the integrated, efficient
development of hydroelectric power, and, where necessary, the construction
of inter-state transmission lines and ancillary works.  The main role of
NREB, established in 1964, is load dispatching for the Northern Region
Power Grid and analysis of grid outages. Recognizing the transmission
system deficiencies outlined in para. 3.02, and the paramount importance of
integrated transmission system operations and improved economic dispatch of
the load, GOI created the National Power Transmission Corporation (NPTC) in
1989.
2.02     GOI eventually plans to transfer the transmission functions of
NHPC and NREB to NPTC.  Once operational, NPTC will be responsible for
building, maintaining, and operating the national transmission grid.  Since
an important goal of the proposed project is to support the development of
NPTC, GOI agreed to send to the Bank, at least three months prior to the
proposed transfer, a detailed plan for transferring the relevant
transmission functions of NHPC, and the implementation and system operation
functions of NREB, along with assets related to these activities, to NPTC
(para 3.38).  When the transfer takes place, NPTC will receive the
remaining proceeds of the loan and will assume full responsibility for
further execution of the proposed project and the debt service associated
with it.
National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC)
2.03     Organizational Structure.  NHPC began operation in June 1976.
NHPC's Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) and part-time directors are
nominated by the Public Enterprise Selection Board (PESB) with the final
appointment made by the President of India.  The Board of Directors shall
consist of at least four members but is not to exceed 15 members.  NHPC is
currently operating with four full-time Directors: the CMD, the Director
(Technical), the Director (Finance), and the Director (Personnel).  Under
NHPC's Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Directors have broad
powers to carry out their duties.  In practice, however, the Board's power
is confined to the daily operation and administration of the Corporation.
GOI must approve policy matters pertaining to the capital investment
program, tariff setting, and the appointment of statutory auditors.
2.04     NHPC's organization, as of June 1989, is shown in Annex 2.1.  The
organization and definition of administrative responsibilities among
various departments had a number of deficiencies.  For example:
(a) One field office reported to the Director (Technical) while
the other offices reported directly to the CMD.



-12-
(b) No one person was responsible for implementing construction
projects, which partly explains the slow pace of project
completion.
(c) The functional responsibilities of some departments required
streamlining and realigning with other departments.  In
particular, the commercial operations staff responsible for
billing and collections reported to the Generation Department
instead of the Finance Department.  Thus, accountability for
the performance of collections was dispersed among commercial
and financial staff, with no particular person taking the
lead in dealing with the mounting accounts receivables
problem.
(d) The CMD position was overburdened with too many staff
reporting directly to it, and a series of successions at the
CMD and department director levels had inhibited the progress
of NHPC's operations.
(f) The existing headquarters were dispersed among eight
different buildings in New Delhi, making the coordination and
supervision of staff cumbersome and inefficient.
(g) The poor telecommunication system in India greatly impeded
communication among headquarters offices, and between
headquarters and the field offices.  The result was often
delayed response on important issues requiring management
decision, misprocurement of spares, slow mobilization of
equipment, hampered project implementation, and cost
overruns.
2.05     NHPC's new CMD, who was appointed in March 1989, initiated changes
to overcome some of the organizational problems highlighted above and to
meet the challenges of an expanded investment program and increased
responsibilities.  The changes included a substantial reorganization of
NHPC's corporate headquarters and field offices.  The purpose is to tailor
the organizational structure so that the responsibilities of each unit,
division, and department are clearly defined for strengthened operational
effectiveness.  The CMD and the Board approved the reorganization plan in
May 1989 after consultations with senior management in the various
departments and with Bank staff. During negotiations, NHPC presented a
copy of its organization report indicating that the implementation of the
reorganization plan (Annex 2.2) has been substantially completed. NHPC
expects to fill the remaining positions of Director (Projects), Executive
Director/General Manager (Transmission), and the Head (Region III), by
May 31, 1991.  NHPC expects to complete its new corporate headquarters at
Faridabad in the State of Haryana by June 1991.  The new organizational
structure, based on NHPC's reorganization report, is shown in Annex 2.2.
2.06     The reorganized NHPC has more streamlined operational and
administrative functions.  An Executive Committee comprising Executive
Directors meets on a quarterly basis to discuss key operational issues and



-13-
policies affecting NHPC. The CMD chairs the Executive Committee. NHPC
also employs a Management Committee consisting of senior managers at the
division chief level or higher. The Management Committee meets on a
monthly basis to discuss detailed operational matters that require the
attention of the directors. Significant issues raised before the
Management Committee are conveyed to the Executive Committee for final
decisions. The salient features of the reorganization, are the following:
(a) Establishing Executive and Management Committees to reduce
the number of staff reporting directly to the CMD and to free
this person for more important matters. This management
change should ensure that key decisions are made openly so
that senior management in the different departments receives
full information about NHPC's policies and decisions.
(b) Transferring supervision of the commercial division to the
Director (Finance). This new arrangement is intended to
bring together the billing/collection functions with the
financial planning functions in order to improve collection
of accounts receivable.
(c) Focussing headquarters activities on policy making and
corporate support such as planning, technical assistance, and
financial assistance to the field staff while decentralizing
construction and operational activities. This
decentralization will provide field staff with more authority
to monitor operational activities and ensure the efficient
implementation of construction activities.
(d) Enhancing the efficiency of the decentralized system through
a corporate communication system linking headquarters with
regional offices and field sites. NHPC, with the aid of an
international consulting firm, has prepared a study on the
feasibility of leasing a transponder for the satellite
communication network. The Bank has reviewed the feasibility
study and concurs with the report's findings. CEA has also
approved NHPC's request for the satellite communication
system. The details of this system to be financed by the
proposed project are discussed in Annex 3.7.
(e) Separating NHPC's generation and transmission activities in
preparation for the transfer of transmission assets and
responsibilities to the newly created NPTC.
(f) Establishing three regional offices close to field sites with
ongoing construction and operational activities to ensure
that site problems will be handled without delay. Either an
Executive Director or General Manager, reporting to the
Director (Projects), will head these offices.
2.07     Generation and Transmission Operations.  NHPC is principally an
organization for the construction of large power projects. The three
projects that are now in operation (Salal I, Baira Siul, and Loktak)



-14-
produce about 3,500 GWh of electricity. Another 1,400 GWh of energy is
purchased and wheeled through the Chukha transmission system to NHPC's
customers. NHPC generated and wheeled energy is sold in bulk to the
following State Electricity Boards (SEBs): Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir,
Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland, Assam, West Bengal, Orissa,
Bihar, and Sikkim. In addition, NHPC also supplies bulk energy to the
Union Territory of New Delhi and to the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) in
West Bengal. Its largest customer is the Jammu and Kashmir SEB which
purchases about 29Z of NHPC's generation in FY90.
2.08     In addition to the power projects, NHPC has over 2,000 circuit-km
of 220 kV and 400 kV transmission lines, another 1,600 circuit-km of
various voltages under construction, and over 5,400 circuit-km under study
for future development.
2.09     Project Implementation Capability.  In the past, field staff were
responsible for project implementation under the supervision of the four
regional field offices; one of these reported to the Director (Technical)
while the other three reported directly to the CMD. The regional offices
were not functioning as intended, their reporting responsibilities were
complex, and their authority was limited, often resulting in slow decision-
making and delayed project implementation. This situation often resulted
in delayed commissioning of plants and cost overruns. The reorganized NHPC
consolidates the reporting responsibilities of the regional offices under a
Director (Projects), provides the regional offices with more authority in
decision-making and holds them accountable for the timely implementation of
projects. The regional offices receive assistance from the project
management and construction equipment planning divisions in close
collaboration with the Electronic Data Processing (EDP) division. There is
extensive use of computer software for project management at headquarters,
regional offices, and field sites. NHPC has gained valuable experience in
project management under the Chamera I project; the implementation of the
projects department and the satellite communication network are expected to
further enhance NHPC's project management and implementation capability.
Annex 2.3 shows NHPC's implementation organization for the proposed
project.
2.10     Operations and Maintenance.  NHPC's regional offices also operate
and maintain existing projects. In order to optimize plant operations and
reduce downtime, the operations and maintenance units in the field collect
generation and transmission data, record operational problems, and analyze
tripping/breakdown reports from field sites. The field offices compile
data and analyses collected into monthly, quarterly and annual operational
reports, which are then furnished to the Director (Projects) at
headquarters for review and comment. The Director (Projects) then provides
a summary of the operational and maintenance performance, problems and
recommendations for the CMD's review and comment. In general, the
operation and maintenance of the hydropower stations have been improving,
as evidenced by the increase in capacity utilization of existing operating
units from 79Z in FY86 to 92X in FY89.
2.11     Personnel and Training.  NHPC's personnel manual outlines
personnel policies and regulations in detail. The last comprehensive
manual was issued in 1982 and since then, various bulletins have recorded



-15-
periodic changes and updates in the personnel policies and regulations.  In
light of the dated personnel manual, NHPC is in the process of reviewing
and updating the manual; detailing its policies for recruitment,
performance appraisal, promotion, compensation, and training. NHPC's
manpower strength, as of June 30, 1989, is shown in Table 2.1 below.
Table 2.1: NHPC's Manpower as of June 30, 1989
Field Offices/Sites
Headquarters      Hydropower        Transmission
Board of Directors a/        8                  0                  0
Senior Management b/        30                10                  4
Middle Management c/        61                 76                 15
Junior Management d/       281               935                134
Other Staff e/             202               666              1,239
Workers                    444            11,007              1,239
Total                1,026            12,694              1,505
a/ Includes four part-time Directors. The Director (Projects) position is
expected to be filled by May 31, 1991, and therefore is not included
here.
bI Directors, executive directors, general managers, assistant general
managers, and chiefs.
c/ Senior managers and managers.
d/ Deputy managers, assistant managers, engineers, accounts officers, and
personnel officers.
e/ Technical and office supervisors.
NHPC employs over 15,200 permanent employees, of which about 7Z are
stationed at headquarters in support functions and for planning,
engineering, design, finance, and administration. The remaining 93Z are
located at field sites where NHPC hydropower and transmission systems are
being constructed and operated.
2.12     NHPC is significantly overstaffed below the management ranks but
still lacks the qualified middle and senior managers needed to properly
implement its vast investment program. Overstaffing below management ranks
results from the need to employ local workers and displaced families at the
field sites. For example, upon completion of construction activities in
Loktak, Baira Siul and Salal I projects, NHPC retained the construction
workers, resulting in a surplus manpower of about 5,000. To reduce
overstaffing, NHPC has instituted a two-year hiring freeze on unskilled
employees and provides a liberal voluntary retirement scheme.
Simultaneously, NHPC has begun retraining redundant workers in more
relevant construction skills and redeploying them on other construction
sites.
2.13     NHPC faces two major obstacles in recruiting qualified senior and
middle managers. First, the salaries are low relative to the salaries
offered by the private sector. Second, potential candidates are reluctant



-16-
to accept posts requiring residency in remote project sites.  To overcome
these difficulties, NHPC continues to recruit staff seconded from other
central and state organizations. It also has begun management training to
upgrade the skills of staff in three critical functions: Technical,
Finance/Accounting, and Management Information Systems (MIS). Moreover,
NHPC has begun offering extra benefits to compensate employees assigned to
remote project sites.  Finally, NHPC has also instituted a job rotation
program among departments, and between headquarters and field sites. The
purpose of this program is to broaden and deepen the staff's knowledge of
the organization and to allow career growth for those assigned to remote
sites.
2.14     Accounting.  NHPC follows the commercial accounting system as
defined in the Companies Act of 1956. However, its depreciation rates on
assets in operation chargeable to revenues are contained in the Electricity
(Supply) Act of 1948.  A Chief (Accounts) supervises the accounts division
and although the skills and experience of the accounts officers are
relatively good, there is room for improvement.  For example, the
compilation, consolidation, and budgeting of accounts by hand significantly
delays their completion.  Only recently has the accounting data been used
for managerial financial planning and decision-making.  In the field,
financial transactions are not directly related to the physical progress of
project implementation, making it difficult to monitor cost overruns.
NHPC's management recognizes these deficiencies and has begun computerizing
its accounting, budgeting, and financial planning functions.
2.15     The Electronic Data Processing Department has begun training
finance and accounts officers in the use of computers for financial
planning and analyses. As-of March 31, 1990, the following financial
functions were computerized: payroll, bonds servicing, financial modelling,
and recording/monitoring of provident funds.  Computerization for accounts
compilation is now in progress. The computerization of financial functions
is expected to strengthen controls on financial transactions, simplify the
accounts compilation and financial planning process, and improve the
management of NHPC's financial resources and planning.
2.16     Internal Audit.  The Chief (Internal Audit) reports to the
Director (Finance).  The internal audit unit is stationed at headquarters
and at finance units in the regional and field sites.  Periodically, audit
teams from headquarters assist the audit teams in the field.  During peak
work periods, external chartered accountants supplement internal auditing
staff. Even though the functions and responsibilities of the internal
audit unit are well documented in its internal audit manual, the unit has
overlooked some important responsibilities because of understaffing and.
inadequate training.  For example, the audit concentrates more on
procedural aspects of expenditures and recording, than on the relationship
of expenditures to physical progress of project implementation or
operation. Moreover, the internal audit unit does not closely monitor the
inventories of stock and equipment in the field as required by its manual.
Recognizing these deficiencies, NHPC has begun to strengthen its audit
staff by providing training in the use of computers for audit work, and to
enlarge the role of the audit team to encompass auditing of work methods
and policies.  Strengthening of the internal audit unit is important
because external auditors base their work primarily on internal audited
reports.



-17-
2.17     External Audit.  The Companies Act prescribes that the Comptroller
and Auditor General of India and statutory auditors are responsible for
auditing the NHPC's accounts on a periodic and annual basis. Chartered
Accountants conduct tax audits as required under the Income Tax Act of
1961. The statutory and tax audits are prepared to ensure NHPC's
compliance with statutory and tax laws governing its operations. NHPC's
external audit reports indicate its compliance with the requirements set
out by the Companies and Income Tax Acts. Except for incomplete inventory
reconciliation and confirmation of advances and liabilities, the external
audit reports are satisfactory. NHPC has generally been able to have its
accounts audited by the statutory auditors within five months from the end
of its financial year. Review of the audited accounts by the Comptroller
and Auditor General of India generally takes another month. NHPC agreed to
send to the Bank its audited annual accounts together with a certified
report by the auditors and comments of the Comptroller an Auditor General
of India, within seven months from the end of its financial year, starting
in FY91.
2.18     Billing and Collection.  An Additional General Manager (AGM) heads
the Commercial Division, which is responsible for computing the tariff for
the sale of power and wheeling charges for the use of NHPC's transmission
system. In addition, the Commercial Division drafts sales agreements
between NHPC and its customers, bills customers, and collects revenues.
The AGM (Commercial) reports to the Director (Finance). The staff of the
Commercial Division is stationed both at headquarters and at field
locations.
2.19     The Commercial Division coordinates tariffs and wheeling charges
with the Ministry of Energy and the Central Electricity Authority (CEA).
Based on GOI guidelines, the tariff and wheeling charges are formulated for
each project on an average cost-plus basis. Consequently, the rate setting
includes all expenditures incurred in the capital investment
(depreciation), operating and maintenance expenses, transmission losses,
and provision for a return on equity of about 10Z. The general allocation
of NHPC's generated power results in: (a) 15? reserved for reallocation by
GOI; (b) 12Z of the power available at the busbar provided free to the home
state as royalty for the use of the state's water; and (c) the remaining
73Z sold to the SEBs/DVC. In some projects, instead of providing 12Z of
free power to the home state, there is a royalty payment of about Paise 1.5
per kWh generated.
2.20     With the exception of the Loktak station, all of the energy
delivered to the SEBs is metered at NHPC's terminal substation or
switchyard. Metered energy at these two points is used as the basis for
billing. In the case of Loktak, which is located in the northeastern part
of India, the bill is prepared based on the meter reading recorded at the
customer receiving end. Bills for one month's consumption are issued on
the seventh day of the next succeeding month. The due date for paying is
one month from the date the bill is issued. There is a late payment
penalty of 2Z per month.
2.21     Despite its efficient billing procedures, NHPC's collections have
been poor with estimated outstanding receivables of about Rs. 1,939



-18-
million, equivalent to about 11.0 months of electricity sales as of
March 31, 1990. Its principal debtors are as follows: Jammu and Kashmir
SEB (21Z), Haryana SEB (18Z), Bihar SEB (14Z), Punjab SEE (10Z), Assam SEB
(9Z), Himachal Pradesh SEB (6Z), Orissa SEB (6Z), West Bengal SEB (5Z), and
Manipur SEB (5Z). About 14? of the receivables are due from the poorest
north-eastern states of Assam, Manipur, Nagaland, and Sikkim, about 31Z are
due from the states of Jammu and Kashmir, and Punjab where tribal and
political pressures hamper NHPC's collection efforts. Another 202 are due
from the poor states of Bihar and Orissa.
2.22     NHPC recognizes its poor collection performance and has requested
the Secretary of Power to intervene in reducing these outstanding
receivables from the debtor states to NHPC. The effort has resulted in the
reduction of NHPC's receivables from a high of about 13.8 months as of
December 31, 1989 to about 11.0 months of electricity sales as of March 31,
1990; a reduction of about Rs. 490 million. Moreover, NHPC with the
assistance of GOI, agreed to embrace a financial recovery program to ensure
that the outstanding receivables are cleared over time, and the new sales
from NHPC do not accumulate in arrears (para 4.09).
2.23     Insurance.  NHPC has obtained insurance coverage for its assets
consistent with Indian policies and practices.
2.24     Income Tax.  NHPC is subject to corporate income tax in accordance
with the Income Tax Act of 1961. However, its investment program, the
depreciation allowed for tax purpose, and allowances for investments are
such that tax relief is provided beyond the period of the financial
projections. Therefore, provision for income tax is not necessary.
Northern Region Electricity Board (NREB)
2.25     GOI established NREB and the other regional electricity boards to
coordinate planning and operation of the electricity undertakings in their
regions. NREB's responsibilities include: reviewing the progress of
projects in the region; planning for integrated operation among the state
systems; preparing coordinated maintenance schedules for the region;
determining the availability of power for inter-state transfer; prescribing
generation schedules; and determining a suitable tariff for inter-state
exchange of power.
2.26     The NREB comprises the chairmen of the constituent State
Electricity Boards together with representatives from the central
generating corporations and a member-secretary of the CEA. The SEB
chairmen take turns each year chairing the NREB. The managers and
operational staff of NREB are seconded from the SEBs and CEA.
2.27     The role of NREB has been limited by its status as a voluntary
association of the SEBs and it has failed to achieve many of its stated
objectives.  It is also limited by the scant amount of real time data
available to its control center in New Delhi.  GOI has established NPTC to
revise the institutional framework for the system control function, and the
project will provide the technical means to manage the power system.



-19-
2.28     The NREB and the SEBs have agreed to establish a unified load
dispatch scheme.  The NREB secretariat will execute the scheme under the
management of a Project Implementation Committee, consisting of chief
engineers of the various boards and two directors from the CEA.  The
member-secretary of the NREB will chair this committee. Annex 2.4 shows
the structure of the proposed implementation committee. GOI is continuing
discussions with the states to determine the funding arrangements and
ultimate ownership of the facilities.



-20-
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01     The Northern Region is the largest of India's five regional power
systems.  Its peak load, which is supply-constrained, was about 9,000 MW in
1988.  The power system comprises about 16,000 MW of generating plant
interconnected with load centers by heavily loaded 220 kV and 400 kV
networks. 4/  It extends 1,800 km from hydroelectric plants in the north to
superthermal pit-head plants in the southeast of the region.  The annual
growth rate exceeds 1OZ and present plans would lead to a doubling of the
generating capacity by 1995. To put this in perspective, by 1995 the
Northern Region will be comparable in capacity to the national power system
of Sweden or Spain today.  However, it covers a larger geographic area and
is growing at about four times the rate of these systems.
3.02     Existing institutional arrangements call for the Northern Region
Load Dispatch Center (NRLDC) in New Delhi to coordinate operation of the
power system.  Each state and each central generating authority has its own
area control organization and all large substations are manned.  In
practice, however, the system fails to achieve secure operation and
economic dispatch for four main reasons: (a) not enough data are
telemetered to inform the NRLDC of what is happening on the system, leaving
it merely to monitor the execution of prearranged contracts and analyze
outages after they have occurred; (b) the member states of the Northern
Region Electricity Board (NREB), which runs the NRLDC, often ignore
prearranged contracts and take more than their share of power; (c) the
existing bulk tariff structure and the linkage of plant staff salaries to
plant load factor inhibit economic dispatch of the power plants; 5/ and (d)
commercial arrangements for power trading are not well established.
3.03     As a result of the heavily loaded transmission network and the
control deficiencies mentioned above, the power system operates with high
losses and delivers expensive, poor quality, unreliable service to its
customers.  To derive full benefit from its investments in additional
generation, GOI must: (a) provide adequate transmission line and substation
capacity to allow power to flow as dictated by security and economic
dispatch criteria; (b) upgrade information and control facilities to
4/ Although the generating capacity of 16,000 MW far exceeds the peak load
of 9,000 MW, the system is unable to meet its peak demand.  The main
reasons are the inclusion of plant that has exceeded its useful life
and inefficient maintenance practices. See Report No. 7878-IN 'India:
Power Sector Efficiency Review, November 30, 1989".
5/ Although the shortage at peak requires all available plant to be run at
full load, there are opportunities at off-peak to practice economic
dispatch and to reduce the overall cost of electricity.  Bulk tariffs
are based solely on energy used (capacity charges and fuel charges are
not separated).  States, therefore, utilize their own plant, even where
it is less efficient than central plants, because of the sunk
investment.  Operators do not reduce load when it is called for, as
salaries are linked to plant load factor.



-21-
facilitate real-time monitoring of power system security and to make
members of the NREB aware of opportunities for economic power trading; and
(c) set up commercial arrangements for power trading.
3.04     Initially, GOI conceived the project to evacuate power from the
Nathpa Jhakri plant in Himachal Pradesh. Later, GOI expanded the project
to include the major transmission links that will be required in the region
over the next six or seven years, and the load dispatch system needed to
monitor and control this complex power system. The proposed project thus
now provides for evacuating power from hydroelectric plants in Himachal
Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir as well as for reducing losses and increasing
reliability. The transmission configuration and voltage levels selected
were specified in a least-cost transmission study prepared by the Central
Electricity Authority (CEA) and reviewed by the Bank. 6/ The dispatch
system is based on a CEA study of dispatch arrangements for the region. 7/
3.05     GOI has recently created an institutional vehicle for
strengthening operation of the existing transmission systems by forming the
National Power Transmission Corporation (NPTC). NPTC will be responsible
for building, maintaining, and operating the transmission grid. An
important goal of the proposed project will be to support development of
the NPTC. In particular, the project will focus on the commercial
arrangements required for improved system operation and for promoting
economic dispatch of electric power.
Project Objectives
3.06     The primary aim of the proposed project is to improve operating
efficiency, reliability, and quality of service in the Northern Region
power system. This is to be achieved through the provision of:
(a) transmission lines and substations to strengthen the
interconnection of power plants and load centers;
(b) a load dispatch system to monitor and control the power
system;
(c) an economic and commercial framework to encourage better use
of available energy; and
(d) a communication system to improve NHPC's corporate and
project management.
6/ The study is entitled "Prospective Transmission Plan 1995-2000". It
was prepared by CEA in fulfillment of a covenant under the Rihand Power
Transmission Project (Loan 2555-IN). It was reviewed by a Bank
consultant, and CEA made changes to accommodate his suggestions.
7/ The study entitled "Project Report for Establishment of Load Dispatch
Centers in the Northern Region Under Unified Scheme, November, 1988",
was reviewed by a Bank consultant and was found satisfactory. However,
he noted that it is a complex undertaking that requires substantial
technical assistance.



-22-
Project Description
3.07     The proposed project consists of two parts: (a) construction of
transmission lines and substations, to be carried out by NHPC; and (b)
strengthening of the regional dispatch system, to be carried out by NREB.
NHPC's portion of the project includes:
(a) construction of:
(i)   1,100 km of 400 kV double-circuit transmission line;
(ii)  325 km of 400 kV single-circuit transmission line;
(iii) 600 km of 765 kV single-circuit transmission line;
(iv)  40 km of 220 kV single-and double-circuit transmission
line;
(b) construction/modification of nine substations with a total
capacity of 2,500 MVA;
(c) installation of a satellite-based corporate communication
system;
(d) consulting services for transmission line and substation
design, inspection services, and training; and
(e) compensatory afforestation.
NREB's portion of the project includes:
(a) installation of a regional load dispatch and control system;
(b) consulting services for design, procurement, and supervision;
and
(c) training.
3.08     A part of the proposed project is located in the State of Jammu
and Kashmir, which is the subject of a territorial dispute between India
and Pakistan. However, in making the proposed loan to India, the Bank does
not intend to prejudice the final determination of the claims of the
parties involved. Map No. IBRD 21690 shows the geographic location of the
proposed project, and Annex 3.1 describes it in more detail.
Project Engineering
3.09     Three parts of the project require engineering input: the
transmission lines and associated substations; the corporate communication
system for NHPC; and the power system control/load dispatch system.



-23-
3.10     The basic configuration, voltage levels, and substation capacity
of the transmission system were determined by CEA in its report entitled
'Prospective Transmission Plan 1995-2000'. A Bank consultant reviewed this
study and, as a result of his suggestions, CEA and NHPC modified it to
reduce costs and increase flexibility of the proposed system.
3.11     NHPC has completed the final design and has prepared bidding
documents for phase one (1990-1992) of the transmission line/substation
component. The design requirements for this phase are straightforward and
well within NHPC's experience and established competence. Phases two
(1990-1995) and three (1991-1998), however, include aspects of transmission
line and substation design that are new to India: the use of 765 kV as a
transmission voltage; and the design of 400 kV transmission lines for use
in hilly terrain up to altitudes of 3,000 meters.  NHPC therefore is
evaluating proposals from consulting firms with the experience needed to
augment its in-house capability.  The firm selected will design and aid in
supervising construction of the 765 kV facilities and the high altitude
transmission lines. NHPC expects the firm to complete its design work in
May, 1991, in time to meet the phase two and phase three schedules. NHPC
has also acquired a modern computer program for use in optimizing its
transmission line designs.
3.12     NHPC has based its proposal for a corporate communication system
on a study by consultants.  This study defines the performance parameters
for the system. NHPC intends to let the contract for the communication
system on a turnkey basis.  Thus, the contractor is to do the detailed
engineering.  NHPC is preparing the bidding documents, which it expects
will be ready by July, 1990.
3.13     NREB has defined the performance requirements and basic system
configuration of the control/dispatch facilities.  A Bank consultant
reviewed NREB's report and found it satisfactory. He noted, however, that
considerable engineering and project management input will be needed to
install this complex system on time and within budget. NREB has agreed to
augment its in-house capability by hiring consultants.  Since late
completion of the dispatch system would significantly decrease the economic
rate of return of the project, during negotiations, NREB agreed to send to
the Bank, no later than December 31, 1991, terms of reference and a short-
list of consultants, acceptable to the Bank.  NREB also agreed to sign a
contract, no later than July 31, 1992, with the selected consultants to
assist with the design, procurement, and installation of the load dispatch
system.
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule
3.14     NHPC and NREB plan to complete the project in eight years.
Annex 3.2 shows the detailed implementation schedule. NHPC will be
responsible for the transmission lines, substations, its corporate
communication system, and compensatory afforestation. NREB will be
responsible for the load dispatch system.  The Bank is satisfied that NHPC
and NREB, with the help of consultants, can complete their respective parts
of the project according to the proposed schedule.



-24-
3.15     NHPC has divided its part of the project into three phases of
construction coinciding with the need for the completed facilities.  By
phasing the project, it will be able to assign project management
responsibility to separate groups located near the work sites and also
consolidate procurement.  Phase one, planned for completion by December
1992, includes the construction of transmission lines from Moga to Hissar,
from Hissar to Bhiwani, and some short 220 kV lines to interconnect with
existing facilities.  Phase one also includes the construction/modification
of substations at Moga, Hissar, and Bhiwani.  Phase two, planned for
completion by March 1995, includes the construction of transmission lines
from Moga to Kishenpur, from Bhiwani to Bawana, and from Bhiwani to Jaipur.
Phase two also includes the construction/modification of substations at
Bhiwani, Bawana, Kishenpur, Moga, and Jaipur.  Phase three, planned for
completion by March 1998, includes the construction of transmission lines
from Bawana to Abdullapur, from Abdullapur to Nathpa Jhakri, from Nathpa
Jhakri to Koldam, and from Koldam to Hissar.  Phase three also includes the
construction/modification of substations at Bawana, Abdullapur, Koldam, and
Hissar. The substation at Nathpa Jhakri will be built as a part of the
Nathpa Jhakri Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3024-IN).  NHPC will also acquire
its corporate communication system in phase one to improve its capability
to manage the project.
3.16     NHPC has already started phase one of the project.  A contractor
is erecting towers on the line from Moga to Hissar.  The Bank has agreed to
finance retroactively the materials (excluding towers) for this line.  NHPC
issued documents for international competitive bidding on these materials
in October 1989 and is evaluating the bids. The Bank reviewed the bidding
documents and found them to conform to its guidelines for procurement.
Bidding for phases two and three requires design input from the consultants
which NHPC proposes to hire. According to the schedule, the consultants'
draft report is due in December, 1990 which leaves enough time for
preparation of the bidding documents.
3.17     NREB's part of the project, on the other hand, is sequential and
does not allow much overlap of activities. NREB must start hiring
consultants and training staff promptly if it is to meet its scheduled
completion date of March 1998.
3.18     NREB's project responsibilities include implementing bulk tariffs
and commercial arrangements that will lead to improved economic dispatch of
the power system.  GOI should change the structure of bulk tariffs to
encourage states to base dispatch decisions on the incremental cost of
generation rather than plant ownership (para 3.02).  It should also
encourage negotiations of commercial agreements which allow cost recovery
for the transmission system and encourage power trading.  The need for
commercial agreements associated with this project originated with the
Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation (NJPC), which will generate power at Nathpa
Jhakri, and NHPC, which will transport the power to NJPC's customers.  The
need for a commercial agreement has since been superseded by the more
general need for GOI to ensure cost recovery for transmission operated by
the recently formed NPTC, as the latter will take over high voltage
transmission from the central generating agencies.



-25-
3.19     The problem faced by GOI is similar to the one being studied in
the United Kingdom and New Zealand, where transmission companies are being
established. The Bank has urged GOI to review the experience of these
countries as it formulates its own policies. At its own initiative, GOI
has already invited senior staff of the New York Power Pool to India to
discuss power pool operations, and plans to hold a full seminar on the
subject in 1991. However, to ensure that appropriate tariffs and
commercial agreements are set up in time to recover the cost of
transmission in this project, during negotiations, NHPC agreed to establish
with NJPC commercial arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, one year prior
to commissioning the transmission line from Nathpa Jhakri to Abdullapur.
Also, GOI reaffirmed its commitment to restructure NHPC's tariffs, as
necessary, to promote efficient use of NHPC's power stations.
3.20     The construction of some projects in India has been delayed by
time-consuming and poorly defined procedures for obtaining import licenses
and foreign exchange. The major delay is usually caused by the time it
takes to get clearance from the Directorate General of Technical
Development (DGTD). During negotiations, NHPC presented to the Bank a
letter from the DGTD clearing the purchase of a list of items for the
project. Also, GOI stated that it was negotiating a Memorandum of
Understanding with NHPC which includes designating NHPC as "sponsorw for
the project. GOI stated that if NHPC is designated "sponsor", it will no
longer be subject to most of the procedures which cause delays in obtaining
import licenses and foreign exchange. GOI also assured the Bank that it
would continue to review and streamline clearance procedures.
Environment, Forestry, Resettlement, Safety and Welfare
3.21     The main environmental concerns related to the project are the
removal of trees for transmission line rights-of-way and possible
degradation of areas near transmission lines and substations by
uncontrolled construction activities. NHPC is routing the transmission
lines to avoid ecologically sensitive areas, historical/cultural features,
and population centers. No involuntary resettlement of population is
anticipated. If during execution of the project, resettlement of people is
needed, for example, as a result of rerouting a line, the Bank will seek to
ensure that the resettlement is carried out in conformity with Bank
guidelines.
3.22     Also, during project implementation, the Bank will seek to ensure
that the safety and welfare of the workers involved in the project,
particularly at the construction sites, are in accordance with contractual
arrangements.
3.23     NHPC will have to clear about 780 hectares of forest to build the
transmission lines. Most of this is in Himachal Pradesh (about 445
hectares) and in Jammu and Kashmir (about 326 hectares). The rest consists
of small stands of trees primarily at road and canal crossings. GOI and
the state authorities have already given the necessary clearances for the
lines included in the project except for the line in phase two from
Kishenpur to Moga, and the lines in phase three from Abdullapur to Nathpa
Jhakri, Nathpa Jhakri to Koldam and Koldam to Hissar. NHPC has applied to
the relevant state authorities for clearances for these lines. The state



-26-
authorities, in turn, have applied to GOI for clearance for the remaining
lines with the exception of the section of the Moga to Hissar line in the
Punjab. Although there is nothing to indicate that GOI will not grant
forest clearances for the remaining lines, delays in forest clearances are
common and have caused previous projects to be completed well past their
scheduled completion date.  Therefore, during negotiations, GOI agreed to
issue forest clearances, by June 30, 1992, for the transmission line from
Moga to Kishenpur, and by October 31, 1993 for the transmission lines from
Abdullapur to Nathpa Jhakri, Nathpa Jhakri to Koldam and Koldam to Hissar.
3.24     GOI's present policy on compensatory afforestation requires ten
trees to be planted in degraded forestland for every tree cut for the
project. NHPC plans to entrust this work to the forest department in the
state in which it clears the forest.  To ensure that the work is properly
documented, and that the physical implementation can be monitored, NHPC
should ask the forest departments to prepare a plan which should include at
least the following information: (a) the geographic description of the land
on which the trees will be planted; (b) assurances that the land is
designated as forestland and that no population will be displaced or lose
their livelihood as a result of its use for compensatory forests; (c) a
description of the procedure for planting and maintaining the forest; and
(d) a list of the species to be planted. During negotiations, NHPC
presented a satisfactory afforestation plan for the lines for which it has
secured forest clearance permission. This plan will serve as a model for
the reafforestation associated with the remaining transmission lines.
3.25     Terms of reference for the consultants that will design and
partially supervise the transmission lines include specific clauses
requiring them to: (a) ensure compliance with requirements and conditions
specified in the environmental clearances issued by the Department of
Forests and Environment; (b) take measures to avoid forests, protected
areas, other ecologically sensitive areas and human settlements, and to
avoid loss of wildlife due to destruction of habitat; and (c) take measures
to monitor and control soil erosion and siltation from construction sites
and provide for revegetation of areas exposed during construction.  The
Bank will check the bidding documents for transmission line construction to
be sure that clauses are included which bind the contractor to take all the
measures needed to protect the environment during construction.  The Bank
also will ensure that NHPC has included clauses to protect the health and
safety of all laborers employed on the project.
Project Costs
3.26     Table 3.1 shows a summary of project costs.  The total cost of the
project including physical and price contingencies (but excluding about
US$132.1 million equivalent of taxes and duties) is US$808.2 million
equivalent, of which US$546.1 million (68Z) is the estimated foreign
exchange requirement.  Interest during construction adds US$239.5 million
to the financing required.  The project costs are based on January 1990
prices which are derived from: (a) for the transmission system, recent
quotations for similar equipment and works; and (b) for the dispatch
system, similar projects in other countries.  Designs for the project
components have been made in enough detail to provide a reliable basis for



-27-
cost estimates.   Consulting  services  total  about 340 man-months,  including
about 280 man-months from expatriate experts. An allowance is included for
non-time-based services. Engineering and administration charges are
assumed to be 10.8Z of base cost.
Table 3.1:  Project Cost Summary
Local      Foreign       Total       Local     Foreign    Total
--------(Rs Million)--------         ------(US$ Million)------
INVESTMENT COSTS
A. NHPC INVESTMENTS
Preliminary Works                     207.2           0.0       207.2        11.4        0.0       11.4
Civil Works                            82.2           0.0        82.2         4.5        0.0        4.5
Compensatory Afforestation             28.3           0.0        28.3         1.6        0.0         1.6
Transmission Lines, Phase 1           258.1         508.8       766.9        15.4       26.8       42.2
Transmission Lines, Phase 2         1,063.9       1,950.9    3,014.8         63.2      102.4      165.6
Transmission Lines, Phase 3         1,360.2       2,280.8    3,641.0         80.7      119.4      200.1
Substations, Phase 1                  118.7         320.1       438.8         7.1       17.0       24.1
Substations, Phase 2                  200.1         547.5       747.6        12.0       29.0       41.0
Substations, Phase 3                  149.8         406.1       555.9         9.0       21.5       30.5
Tools & Equipment                       18.9         77.4        96.3         1.1        4.2        5.3
Communications Equipment               25.0          74.4        99.4         1.4        4.1        5.5
Consulting Services                     0.0          27.6        27.6         0.0        1.5        1.5
Training                                0.0           9.3         9.3         0.0        0.5        0.5
Engineering & Administration        1,045.3           0.0    1,045.3         57.4        0.0       57.4
Sub-total                          4,557.7       6,202.9   10,760.6        264.8      326.4      591.2
B. NREB INVESTMENTS
Buildings and Civil Works             275.7          62.7       338.4        15.5        3.1       18.6
Load Dispatch Equipment               627.4         654.0    1,281.3         36.3       34.1       70.4
Consulting Services                     0.0          55.3        55.3         0.0        3.0        3.0
Training                                11.0         21.9        32.9         0.6        1.2         1.8
Engineering & Administration          168.7           0.0       168.7         9.3        0.0        9.3
Sub-total                          1,082.8         793.8    1,876.6         61.7       41.4      103.1
Total Base Cost                       5,640.5       6,996.7   12,637.2        326.5      367.8       694.3
......=      .....    .. ..... .....               .....      ... ==
Physical Contingencies                  444.9         692.6    1,137.5         24.4       38.1       62.5
Price Contingencies                   2,864.1       4,747.7    7,611.8         43.3      140.2      183.5
Total Project Costs a/                8,949.5      12,437.0   21,386.5        394.2      546.1      940.3
......=    ........   ,.......   .....             .....      ...
Interest During Construction
On Bank Financed Portion                 0.0      4,215.0    4,215.0          0.0      185.3      185.3
On Remainder of Project             1,232.0           0.0    1,232.0         54.2        0.0       54.2
Total Financing Required             10,181.5      16,652.0   26,833.5        448.4      731.4   1,179.8
........    ........   ........          .....      .......  ..... . S
a/ Including taxes and duties of about US$132.1 million equivalent.



-28-
3.27     The cost estimates include physical contingencies of 1OZ except
for the corporate communication system for which physical contingencies of
15Z are allowed.  Physical contingencies of 1OZ for the transmission lines
and substations reflect the present state of knowledge of the transmission
line routes, and that some of the lines will be in mountainous terrain.
Physical contingencies of 1OZ for the load dispatch component reflect the
uncertainty in costs, especially software costs.  Physical contingencies of
15Z for the corporate communication system allow for site specific
modifications to the equipment since detailed engineering will be done by
the supplier.  Price contingencies, which amount to about 24Z of the
US$756.8 million base cost plus physical contingencies, are based on annual
inflation rates for local costs of 7.3Z for 1990, 7.OZ for 1991 and 1992,
6.6Z for 1993, 6.5Z for 1994 and 1995, 6.1Z for 1996, and 6.OZ for 1997.
The annual inflation rates for foreign costs are 4.9Z for 1990 to 1995, and
3.7Z thereafter.  Interest during construction is calculated on the
assumption that loan financing for the project will bear an annual interest
rate of 15Z, the current interest rate for GOI loans to NHPC.  Detailed
cost estimates are shown in Annex 3.3.
Project Financing
3.28     The proposed Bank financing for the project is US$485 million
equivalent, representing about 46Z of the total project financing
requirements net of duties and taxes. The Bank will finance foreign
exchange costs.  The Bank will lend the funds to GOI.  GOI will retain
about US$55 million to finance the load dispatch component of the project,
for which NREB will act as executing agency. GOI will onlend the balance
of US$430 million to NHPC at its standard interest rate for loans to NHPC,
but not less than 14Z, with a repayment period of 15 years including three
years' grace. GOI will bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and NHPC,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Bank loan. GOI's normal practice is to transfer the first half of
its assistance for NHPC projects as equity but it immediately draws on the
Bank loan as payments under contracts are due. This results in softer
terms for NHPC than those defined above.  To reflect more accurately the
cost of the financing to NHPC, during negotiations GOI agreed to make
available to NHPC the amounts withdrawn from the loan account on the terms
and conditions shown above in the first month of the quarter following the
quarter in which GOI withdraws the amounts.
3.29     The Japanese Grant Facility has assigned about US$1.1 million
equivalent to this project.  The grant will finance consulting services
associated with the NHPC portion of the project.
3.30     According to present forecasts, NHPC will contribute about 8.6Z of
the financing required for its part of the project from internal cash
generation. A blend of GOI loans, GOI equity and cofinancing will complete
the financing package.  During negotiations, GOI stated that it would seek
cofinancing to cover the difference, about US$60 million, between the Bank
loan and the total foreign exchange requirement (excluding interest during
construction). GOI has already received expressions of interest from
several donor countries and suppliers of equipment. If a successful bidder
or another agency offers acceptable financing for the lowest evaluated bid



-29-
in cash terms, GOI may apply the funds, with the Cofinancier's agreement,
to specific items not financed by the Bank or to finance a portion of Bank
financed packages. In this event, GOI's contribution would be reduced and,
if required, the Bank would reallocate the funds no longer required for
financing these packages to other items in the project as appropriate.
Table 3.2 shows the proposed financing plan.
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Source                          Local       Foreign       Total      Prcent
(a) NHPC Component
IBRD                               -         430.0        430.0        43
Japanese Grant Facility            -           1.1           1.1        -
NHPC                             86.3            -         86.3         9
GOI                             274.6        211.6        486.2        48
Subtotal                      360.9        642.7      1,003.6       100
(b) NREB Component
IBRD                               -          55.0         55.0        31
GOI                              87.5         33.7        121.2        69
Subtotal                      87.5         88.7        176.2       100
Project Total                   448.4        731.4      1,179.8
GOl will initially finance cost overruns, but NHPC will ultimately cover
any cost overruns for its part of the project.
Procurement
3.31     Table 3.3 shows the procurement arrangements for the project.
3.32     Only US$142.1 million worth of works, goods, and services will not
be procured by ICB. They consist of:
(a) US$126.2 million worth of transmission towers, miscellaneous
civil works, switchyard structures, cables and fittings;
these will be procured by local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures that the Bank has reviewed and found acceptable



-30-
(foreign contractors and suppliers will not be prevented from
participating in LCB); 8/
(b)  US$6.8 million worth of training and consulting services;
these will be procured following the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants;
(c)  US$7.2 million worth of special tools, equipment, and
instruments; these will be procured following Bank approval,
on a case-by-case basis, either by limited international
bidding (LIB) or direct contracting; 9/ and
(d)  US$1.9 million worth of compensatory afforestation; these
services will be procured by an exchange of letters with
various State Forestry Departments that will perform the work
using Force Account. 10/
3.33     ICB contracts represent about 84Z of all project procurement.
With the exception of tools and equipment and substation erection, all
goods, erection and construction services to be financed by the Bank
(representing 97Z of the Bank loan) will be procured following ICB. Local
firms are expected to bid on civil works and erection contracts; firms
manufacturing goods in India are expected to bid on contracts for the
supply of goods.  In these cases, the Bank's standard domestic preference
provisions will apply in the evaluation and comparison of bids for
contracts procured by ICB.
3.34     Bank financing will be applied to approximately 40 procurement
packages.  Goods contracts worth US$1 million or more, representing more
than 90Z of the amount financed by the Bank, will be subject to prior
review by the Bank.  The remainder will be subject to selective post-award
review. The procurement schedule is shown in Annex 3.4.
8/  About US$21.6 million worth of transmission towers were bought in
advance of the Bank loan to meet the deadline for the line from Moga to
Bhiwani. Civil works amount to US$44.2 million, made up of a number of
small contracts.  These items will not be financed by the Bank.
9/  Contracts larger than US$200,000 will be procured by ICB.
10/ The State Forestry Department will perform the work according to an
afforestation plan that NHPC will send to the Bank for its approval.
These contracts will not be financed by the Bank.



-31-
Table 3.3: Summary of Procurement Arranqements
(US$ Million) a/
Procurement Method
ICB         LCB        Other         Total
Preliminary and Civil Works                                      44.2                         44.2
(-)                         (-)
Compensatory Afforestation                                                      1.9            1.9
(-)            (-)
Transmission Towers and Erection                     241.0       21.6                       262.6
(119.6)       (-)                      (119.6)
Transmission Line Materials                          302.0                                  302.0
(212.2)                                (212.2)
Substation Equipment                                  99.6                                    99.6
(81.2)                                 (81.2)
Substation Cables, Structures & Auxiliaries                      19.5                         19.5
(-)                         (-)
Substation Erection                                              15.2                         15.2
(5.4)                       (5.4)
Corporation Communications Equipment                    7.5                                    7.5
(5.8)                                  (5.8)
Load Dispatch Equipment and Software                  75.1       25.7                       100.8
(50.0)       (-)                       (50.0)
Tools and Equipment                                                             7.2            7.2
(5.6)          (5.6)
Training and Consulting Services                                                6.8            6.8
(5.2)          (5.2)
Administration and Overheads                                                   73.0           73.0
_-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -  -  - --) _-
TOTAL                                       725.2       126.2         88.9          940.3
(468.8)      (5.4)       (10.8)        (485.0)
a/ Amounts include taxes and duties (US$132.1 million), and figures in brackets
indicate the Bank financed portion.
b/ Including consulting services, force account, administrative overheads and up to
US$7.2 million worth of tools and equipment to be procured by Limited International
Bidding (LIB).
Disbursements
3.35        The Bank will  disburse  its  funds  against  the following categories
of expenditure for contracts resulting from international competitive
bidding or other procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank:
(a)   OOZ of the foreign cost  of directly  imported goods  and
100Z of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods;
(b)   702 of the cost of civil works  and erection contracts;
(c)   100?  of the cost of consulting and inspection services;  and
(d)   100?  of expenditures  for training.



-32-
Disbursements will be made against statements of expenditure (SOE) for
expenditures on goods, civil works, and erection under contracts valued
less than US$200,000 equivalent. Documentation supporting SOEs will be
kept by the implementing agencies and made available for inspection by
supervision missions.  Standard procedures for auditing SOEs will apply.
To facilitate disbursements, GOI will set up a special account with an
authorized allocation of US$20 million, equivalent to four months'
estimated average disbursement. The Bank has authorized retroactive
financing of up to US$5.0 million to cover expenditures, after May 31,
1990, on stage one of the project which is urgently required to evacuate
power from the Chamera plant in Himachal Pradesh.
3.36     Annex 3.5 compares the expected disbursement profile of this
project with the Bank's standard disbursement profile for power projects in
India. The expected initial disbursements are slightly higher than the
standard profile, reflecting disbursement of the special account and some
expected retroactive financing. The project disbursement remains higher
than the standard profile in the middle years. This results from the
nature of the transmission project which is conceived in three phases that
can be carried out independently since the work will take place in
different geographic areas.
3.37     The closing date of the loan will be September 30, 1998.
Project Operation
3.38     NHPC will operate and maintain the transmission facilities within
the limits defined by NREB, as it directs the dispatch and maintains the
security of the power system in the Northern Region. NHPC has acquired the
necessary experience by operating and maintaining the transmission
facilities associated with its hydroelectric plants. Depending on the
speed with which it is organized and staffed, NPTC may complete
construction of the project and assume responsibility for operating both
the transmission facilities and the load dispatch system. During
negotiations, GOI agreed to present to the Bank a detailed plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, at least three months prior to any proposed
transfer of NHPC's transmission functions to NPTC, and NREB's
implementation and system operation functions to NPTC. The plan will
include a timetable, NPTC's proposed organization, operating procedures,
forecast financial position and staffing plan.
Project Risks
3.39     Two areas of the project carry higher than usual risk.  First,
there are technical risks associated with using a higher transmission
voltage than the one used at present and risks associated with using high
voltage transmission lines at high altitudes in icy conditions. Second,
there is the risk of implementation delays for the load dispatch component
which involves coordination and cooperation among all the utilities
included in the Northern Region.



-33- 
3.40     NHPC is managing the technical risks by employing consultants with
the necessary experience. The new voltage level, 765 kV, has been in use
for several years in Canada, the USSR, the US, Brazil, Venezuela, and South
Africa. Performance of the equipment has been good except for a higher
than expected failure rate of power transformers. Manufacturers and the
concerned utilities are investigating this phenomenon. They expect to
solve the problem in a year or two. Since the proposed 765 kV system in
India will operate initially at 400 kV, the Bank expects that the
technology will be fully mature before it is necessary to purchase 765 kV
power transformers (approximately 1997). The technology associated with
constructing high altitude lines in icy conditions is well established and
will be transferred to NHPC by the consultants.
3.41     The risk of implementation delays is always present in a project
with the complexity of the load dispatch component. The technology is
relatively straightforward but the project requires very good project
management to remain on schedule and within cost estimates.  There are
signs that the required cooperation between the member utilities of the
region may be forthcoming, the most significant being their joint agreement
on the principles outlined in the project report.  Experienced consultants
will be required to help NREB refine the technical aspects of the system
and manage its installation.
3.42     The contractors will cover the usual risks of damage due to fire,
explosion, etc., during construction. NHPC and NREB will cover them after
commissioning according to the usual utility practices in India.
Project Supervision and Monitoring
3.43     NHPC and NREB will be responsible for primary supervision of the
project components for which they are responsible.  The Bank will monitor
the project by reviewing progress reports and by conducting regular
supervision missions.  During negotiations, NHPC presented a description of
its project monitoring program which the Bank reviewed and found
satisfactory. GOI stated that NREB has prepared a 'Pert Chart" for its
part of the project and intends to computerize its project monitoring
later. GOI further stated that it would send a copy of the 'Pert Chart' to
the Bank by December 31, 1990 and implement the computerized system by
September 30, 1992.



-34-
IV. FINANCE
National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
Background
4.01      NHPC became an operational utility in June 1976, following the
appointment of its first Chairman and Managing Director.  It started to
earn revenue about six years later with the commissioning of the Baira Siul
and Loktak power stations in FY83 and FY84, respectively. The Salal I
project was commissioned in FY88, transferred to NHPC in FY89, and
represents the most recent revenue-earning source for NHPC. With the
addition of Salal I, NHPC's electricity sales grew from Rs. 371 million in
FY85 to about Rs. 2,107 million in FY90. This set the stage for
transforming NHPC's emphasis from that of project construction to
operational activities.  Its net income grew from a modest Rs. 85 million
in FY85 to about Rs. 576 million in FY90. Despite its impressive growth in
sales and net income, NHPC has experienced growing liquidity difficulties
in its operational accounts as a result of its high receivables, which have
averaged about 10.7 months of electricity sales during the period FY85 to
FY90.  In addition to inadequate revenue, a rapidly expanding investment
program and excess manpower costs also inhibit NHPC's financial
performance. NHPC's past and present financial performance and the actions
that it needs to take to gradually strengthen its financial position are
described in this chapter.
Past and Present Financial Performance
4.02      NHPC's key financial indicators for FY85 to FY90 are shown in
Table 4.1. The supporting financial statements (income, sources and
applications of funds, and balance sheet) are contained in Annex 4.1.
Table 4.1: NHPC's KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR FY85 - FY90
Fiscal Year Ending March 31         FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90 c/
Energy Sales (GWh)                   874    1056    1163    1102    3119    3328
Average Tariff Rate (p/kWh)         42.0    45.0    41.0    43.7    45.1    45.0
Wheeled Energy Sales (GWh)             0        0     281    1025    1301    1418
Average Wheeling Rate (p/kWh)          -        -    45.5    45.0    45.0    43.0
Generated Energy Sales (Rs. mil)     364      474     474      482    1406    1498
Wheeled Energy Sales (Rs. mil)         0        0     128      461     585     610
Total Revenue (Rs. mil)              371      475     603      962    1999    2125
Operating Expenses (Rs. mil)         133      131     229      498     852     904
Operating Income (Rs. mil)           238      345     374      464    1147    1222
Interest Expenses Rs. mil)           153      157     181     221      629     646
Net Income (Rs. mi )                  85      188     193      243     518     576
Rate of Return (%) a/                9.6    13.7    12.4    13.3    17.4    12.7
Contribution to Invistments (%) b/  -1.9      2.1     2.9      2.0     5.2    -8.0
Operating Ratio (%)                   36       28      38       52      43    43.0
Debt-Service Coverage (%)            1.4      1.8     1.4      1.5     1.7     1.3
Debt/Equity                          0.5      0.4     0.6      0.7     0.9     0.9
Current Ratio (%)                    4.2      3.5     5.0      4.0     2.2     3.4
Receivables/Electricity Sales (months)  11.6    12.3    10.7   9.2     9.3    11.0
a/ Before interest on average net fixed assets based on historical cost.
b/ In FY90, NHPC's contribution to investment was negative due to high debt-service
and working capital requirements.
c/ Estimated by NHPC.



-35-
NHPC's net generated energy sales grew from 874 GWh in FY85 to 1,056 GWh in
FY86, largely due to the commissioning of the Loktak power station.
However, the full potential of both the Baira Siul and Loktak power
stations was not immediately realized.  Inadequate inflows limited the
energy generated at Baira Siul while transmission constraints limited the
energy generated at Loktak.  By FY87, net energy sales grew to 1,163 GWh
with a slight tapering off in FY88 to 1102 GWh. Except for minor
variations due to inflow fluctuations, these two stations' maximum sales
are limited to around 1,100 GWh per annum. With the transfer of Salal I to
NHPC in FY89, NHPC's generated sales grew to 3,328 GWh by FY90. Aside from
its own generation, NHPC also derived revenue from wheeling charges, i.e.
charges that it levies for transporting power over its transmission system.
Wheeled energy sales started in FY87 with the commissioning of the 220 kV
Chukha Transmission System which transports power from the Chukha
hydroelectric project in Bhutan to West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa and DVC.
Under the wheeling arrangement, NHPC purchased the bulk power from Bhutan
and wheeled the power to its eastern region beneficiaries.  Initially
wheeled energy sales from Chukha amounted to 281 GWh and as more
transmission lines were commissioned for the Chukha Transmission System,
the wheeled energy sales grew to 1,418 GWh by FY90.
4.03     Combining generated and wheeled energy sales and miscellaneous
revenues from asset sales and recoveries, NHPC's revenues grew from
Rs. 371 million in FY85 to Rs. 2,125 million by FY90. The gain of over 75X
p.a. was largely a result, as noted above, of new plants being brought on-
line. Tariff increases were almost non-existent during this period while
wheeling charges were reduced as more energy was wheeled through NHPC's
system.  The average generation tariff in FY87 fell by almost 10% from the
level of the previous year due to the reduced tariff on power generated
from Baira Siul when GOI mandated that tariffs should be adjusted to allow
only a 1OZ return on shareholders' equity instead of the previous 12X p.a. 11/
4.04     NHPC's operating ratio ranged from 28Z to 52Z between FY85 and
FY90. The high operating ratio of 52Z in FY88 was the result of the larger
proportion of power purchased and lower rate of revenue increase during the
year, while the drop to 43X in FY89 and FY90 was the effect of new sales
from Salal I. 12/ With low operating expenses and revenues increasing as
new plants were commissioned, NHPC's operating income increased from
Rs. 238 million in FY85 to Rs. 464 million in FY88 and to Rs. 1,222 million
in FY90.
11/ Bulk tariffs for generated and wheeled energy are based on a cost-plus
principle for recovery of all capital investment costs, operating/
maintenance expenses and a 10% return on equity for each project.
12/ The low operating expenses of NHPC are typical of the hydroelectric
generation business since high fuel costs are excluded from
hydroelectric generation.



-36-
4.05     During the same period, NHPC's investment program grew from
Rs. 1,553 million in FY85 to Rs. 9,293 million in FY89, and tapering
slightly to Rs. 8,604 million by FY90. Half of these investments were
financed through loans and bonds, increasing the interest expense from Rs.
153 million in FY85 to Rs. 646 million in FY90. The remaining investments
were financed through GOI equity contributions and internally generated
funds. Because of the structure of funding for its investment program,
NHPC's interest expenses remained low.  Hence, NHPC was able to increase
its net income from Rs. 85 million in FY85 to Rs. 576 million in FY90,
earning returns on average net fixed assets after interest of 3.4% in FY85
and 6.0Z by FY90. Its returns before interest were 9.6Z in FY85, 17.4Z in
FY89, and 12.7Z in FY90. Between FY85 and FY90, NHPC's financial
performance was sound except for its high level of receivables, averaging
about 10.7 months of sales.
4.06     NHPC's high accounts receivable are a consequence of the
cumulative effect of its poor collection performance since its inception.
Its receivables as of March 31, 1990, stood at about 11.0 months of
electricity sales. As a result, NHPC experienced liquidity difficulties in
its operational accounts and its internally generated cash resources were
inadequate to fully service its debt obligations and to meet its working
capital requirements. Even though its debt-service coverage ratio (which
ranged from 1.3 to 1.8) was satisfactory, much of its operating income was
not in the form of cash. As a consequence, borrowings and equity infusions
were needed to supplement its internal cash generation to meet its
liquidity needs. Thus, scarce financial resources needed to implement
capital investments were diverted to meet working capital requirements and
to service debt. The low contribution of internally generated funds to
meet investment requirements (ranging from a negative contribution to about
5Z) is an indication both of the inadequate level of internally generated
funds and a rapidly expanding investment program. NHPC's liquidity
difficulties weakened its financial position by increasing its debt-service
obligations without a commensurate increase in generation capacity.
4.07     Major obstacles to NHPC's collection efforts are political
constraints in a number of states. About 31Z of NHPC's receivables
outstandings as of FY90 were due from Jammu and Kashmir, and Punjab SEBs.
Another 20Z of receivables were due from the poor northeastern states of
Assam, Manipur, Nagaland, and Sikkim, and the poor Bihar and Orissa states.
4.08     Except for the high level of receivables, NHPC generally managed
its financial operations well. In FY87 NHPC tapped the domestic capital
market with its first seven-year bond issue of Rs. 1,436 million which was
followed by three other issues totalling Rs. 6,500 million during the FY88
to FY90 period. The interest on these bond issues ranged from 9Z for tax-
exempt bonds to 14Z for taxable issues significantly below the GOI's
current lending rate of 15Z. All these bond issues were oversubscribed
indicating the receptiveness of institutional investors. The maturity of
these bond issues will have a major impact on NHPC's finances since they
involve a balloon repayment schedule. Sufficient internally generated
funds will be needed to meet these payments in the future. As a result of
the large bond issues, NHPC's debt to equity ratio deteriorated from 0.5 in
FY85 to 0.9 in FY90. With GOI facing budget constraints, GOI loans to NHPC
will increasingly be reduced in favor of NHPC tapping the domestic capital



-37-
market for financial resources. Consequently, it is imperative that NHPC
maintain a strong financial position so that it will continue to have
favorable access to the domestic capital market. Despite the increase in
the debt to equity ratio, the capital structure of NHPC remains
fundamentally sound.
Financial Recovery Program and Forecast Financial Position
4.09     Recognizing its relatively weak financial position, NHPC with
GOI's assistance, agreed to undertake a financial recovery program aimed at
gradually restoring NHPC's financial position. The financial recovery
program consists of three main components: (a) a liquidity management
measure; (b) a revenue enhancement scheme; and (c) a time-bound monitoring
program to ensure that needed actions are implemented by NHPC as scheduled.
(a) To improve NHPC's liquidity, NHPC agreed to clear its backlog of
receivables over time. Specifically, during negotiations, NHPC
agreed to reduce its receivables of 11.0 months of electricity
sales as of FY90 to at least the following levels by each of the
respective financial years: 9 months by FY91, 8 months by FY92, 6
months by FY93, 4 months by FY94, and 3 months thereafter. In
addition, GOI and NHPC stated that they would make efforts to
remove obstacles to prompt collection and take actions beginning
in FY95 to further reduce NHPC's receivables to a 2 months' level,
i.e. to ensure all bills are current.  NHPC also agreed to ensure
that by October 31, 1990, its receivables would be no more than
11.0 months' sales. NHPC stated that it will provide documentary
evidence to the Bank, indicating its compliance with the latter
covenant, no later than December 31, 1990. To effect prompt
collections for new sales, GOI and NHPC stated that NHPC will
require its customers to open irrevocable letters of credit in
favor of NHPC in an amount equal to their estimated monthly
purchases of power no later than March 31, 1991, or make other
arrangements to ensure full payment by its customers for power
supplied by NHPC. Timely implementation of these actions would
enable NHPC to fully service its debt and working capital
requirements from the operational accounts without having to incur
new debts or rely on equity infusions to meet its liquidity needs.
(b) To improve its revenue, NHPC further agreed to take all measures
necessary, including tariff adjustments, in order to earn a return
before interest on its average net fixed assets of not less than
11.52 in each financial year beginning in FY91. With a modest
tariff adjustment of about 7Z per annum which would keep pace with
projected local inflation, NHPC is expected to exceed this
covenant requirement by about 2Z per annum on average over the
forecast period (para 4.14). Adherence to this covenant would
enable NHPC to contribute positively to its rapidly expanding
capital investments from its internally generated financial
resources (para 4.15).  GOI and NHPC intend to maintain a prudent
relationship between NHPC's internally generated resources and
NHPC's investment program, and have stated that they will take all
necessary measures to ensure that funds from NHPC's operations
contribute positively to its investments.



-38-
(c)  Aside from the time-bound covenants in (a) and (b) above, NHPC
agreed to send to the Bank by December 31 of each year, a report
of its forecast operational and financial performance for the
ensuing two years beginning in December 31, 1991.  The report
shall specify the actions that NHPC will take to fulfill Bank's
covenants.   This covenant, together with the requirement that NHPC
submit its audited annual report to the Bank within seven months
from the end of its financial year beginning in FY91 (para 2.17),
will enable the Bank to closely monitor NHPC's compliance with the
recovery program to ensure its timely implementation.
4.10      The forecast financial performance of NHPC is based on the
assumption that the proposed financial recovery program is fully
implemented on time.  In addition, it assumes normal generation output and
prompt commissioning of proposed projects.  Detailed financial modelling
assumptions are included in Annex 4.1. NHPC's key financial indicators for
the FY91-FY99 forecast period are summarized in Table 4.2 below. As
indicated in Table 4.2 and further discussed in the following paragraphs,
NHPC's overall financial position will be strengthened upon the full
implementation of the agreed recovery program.
Table 4.2: NHPC's KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR FY91 - FY99
Fiscal Year                 FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99
Generation Sales (GWh)      3328  3328  4187  5452  7358  8958  10901  12646 13683
Tariff (p/kWh)                46    50    56    64    66    73    78    80    82
Wheeled Energy Sales (GWh)    1602  1602  2517  3392  4942  7030  9231  11225 17225
Wheeling Rate (p/kWh)         44    47    54    60    62    68    70    71    71
Generation Sales (Rs. b)     1.5   1.7   2.3   3.5   4.9   6.5   8.5  10.1  11.2
Wheeled Energy Sales (Rs. b)   0.7   0.7   1.4   2.0   3.1   4.8   6.5   8.0  12.2
Total Revenue (Rs. b)        2.2   2.4   3.7   5.6   8.0  11.4  15.0  18.2  23.5
Operating Expenses (Rs. b)   0.9   1.0   1.2   1.7   1.9   2.7   3.5   4.0   4.6
Operating Income (Rs. b)     1.3   1.4   2.5   3.9   6.0   8.6  11.6  14.2  18.9
Interest Expenses (Rs. b)    0.6   0.6   0.8   1.9   2.3   3.8   5.7   7.0   7.6
Net Income (Rs. b)           0.7   0.8   1.8   2.0   3.7   4.8   5.9   7.3  11.3
Rate of Return (%)
- Historical Cost a/        13  13.8  11.6  11.6  13.1  11.9  12.5  13.3  15.0
- Revalued Cost b/        12.4  12.3  10.6  10.6  11.7  10.7  11.0  11.4  12.5
Contri. to Investments (%)   5.8   4.1   4.3   2.8   9.9  12.4  13.5  13.7  20.5
Operating Ratio (%)           42    40    32    31    24    24    23    22    20
Debt-Service Coverage (%)    1.4   1.6   1.8   1.1   1.7   1.7   1.5   1.4   1.6
Debt/Equity                  0.8   0.5   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.5   0.5   0.5
Current Ratio (%             3.0   2.8   1.5   1.8   1.7   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3
Receivables (mo.)            9.0   8.0   6.0   4.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0
a! Before interest on average net fixed assets based on historical cost.
E/ Before interest on average net fixed assets based on pro-forma asset revaluation.
4.11      NHPC's net generated energy sales are projected to increase from
3,328 GWh in FY91 to about 13,683 GWh by FY99, representing a growth rate
of about 18Z per annum over the forecast period. Much of this growth
occurs in FY93 with the commissioning of the 540 MW Chamera I and 120 MW
Tanakpur stations; in FY95, with the completion of 345 MW Salal II and
390 MW Dulhasti projects; in FY96 and FY97, with the commissioning of the
480 MW Uri, 60 MW Rangit, and 300 MW Chamera II hydropower plants. In
addition to its generated energy sales, NHPC's wheeled energy sales over
the forecast period is expected to expand at an average annual rate of over
30Z, increasing the wheeled energy sales from about 1,600 GWh in FY91 to
over 17,000 GWh by FY99.  The projected growth in wheeled energy sales



-39-
coincides with the planned commissioning of the hydropower projects
mentioned above and the commissioning of over 4500 circuit-km of
transmission lines to evacuate the power from these power stations.  The
proposed project will comprise the bulk of the lines commissioned with
about 3,130 circuit-km electrified during the forecast period.
4.12     As more projects come on-line and with the timely implementation
of revenue enhancements through gradual tariff increases, liquidity
management through realizing billings, and cost control to gainfully
redeploy excess manpower, NHPC's financial position will gradually be
strengthened as shown by the projected financial indicators in Table 4.2.
By maintaining a 7.0Z average annual generated tariff increase and the
projected wheeling charges, NHPC's revenue is projected to increase from
Rs. 2.2 billion in FY91 to over Rs. 23.0 billion by FY99; this in turn
would result in a rate of return on average net fixed assets (at historical
cost and before interest) of about 13.OZ during the FY91-99 period.  The
rate of return before interest will vary from 13.0Z in FY91 to 11.6Z in
FY93 and FY94, to about 15Z by FY99. The low FY93 and FY94 rate of returns
before interest are due to the over 70Z per annum expansion of NHPC's
assets but accompanied only by a lower 502 per annum revenue growth during
those years.  Aided by a strengthened capital structure of 50Z equity and
502 debt, NHPC's rate of return after interest is expected to improve to
about 7.32 during the forecast period, representing a slight increase of
about 1.02 as compared with the past six years.  NHPC's projected rate of
return and based on pro-forma asset revaluation before and after interest
will be 11.52 and 6.5Z on average respectively during the FY91 to FY99
period.
4.13     The proposed financial recovery program will also improve NHPC's
capacity to contribute significantly to its rapidly expanding investment
program.  Its contribution to investment over the projected period will
average about 9.7Z p.a. compared to about 0.4Z p.a. during the past six
years. When the investment projects are fully commissioned, internally
generated funds will contribute in excess of 202 to a Rs. 36 billion
investment program (FY99).  The lower contribution to investment (of about
5.0Z) in FY91-92 is due to a lack of additional revenue earning source
since no sizeable projects would have yet been commissioned while the
investment program is projected to increase by over 80Z over the same
period.  The contribution to investment is projected to fall to about 3.62
in FY93-94 due to an increase in debt-service resulting from the redemption
of Series A and part of Series B bonds while another 102 p.a.  increase
occurs in its investment program. The deterioration in FY93-94 would have
been worse if not for the commissioning of the Chamera I plant in FY93
which helps boost NHPC's average generation tariff up by about 13.52 p.a.
and the increase in wheeling charges of about 13Z p.a. during the period.
Thereafter,  contribution to investment increases steadily from 9.9? in
FY95 to over 202 by FY99. 13/
13/ The investment program during this period has not been sanctioned by
GOI since it falls largely within GOI's Ninth Five-Year Plan. On
average, it is assumed that the investment program will expand by about
10? per annum.



-40-
4.14     Since NHPC's earning assets are mainly hydropower plants,
transmission lines and ancillary works, operating expenses are much lower
than those experienced in a thermal based system where maintenance costs
are higher as well as operating costs due to fuel costs; moreover, downtime
for maintenance on a hydropower system is much lower than for thermal
stations.  Consequently, as more hydropower projects come on-line,
operating expenses as a percent of its operating revenues decline.  Over
the forecast period, NHPC's operating ratio demonstrates a healthy 29Z p.a.
as compared with a 40Z p.a. in the past six years.
4.15     NHPC's projected debt to equity ratio of 0.5, debt-service
coverage of 1.5, over the forecast period, and current ratio of 1.4 over
the forecast recovery period of FY95 to FY99, are acceptable.
Investment Financing Plan
4.16     NHPC's financing plan for the period FY91 to FY99 is presented in
Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: NHPC's FINANCING PLAN FY91 - FY99
Investment Program                Rs. Million               Percent
Proposed Project                    15,842                    6.7
Other Capital Investments          196,829                   83.3
Interest During Construction        23,349                   10.0
Total                              236,021                  100.0
Funding Sources
Internal Generation                 78,183
Less: Working Capital Change    (  6,200)
Debt-Service                ( 51,654)
Net Internal Generation             20,329                    8.6 a/
Borrowings: IBRD                     8,491                    3.6
GOI                    69,329                   29.4
Bonds                   2,150                    0.9
Other Foreign Loans   14,631                     6.2
Total Borrowings                    94,601                   40.1
GOI Equity                         121,091                   51.3
Total                              236,021                  100.0
a/ Figure differs from the contribution to investment shown in
para 4.15 of 9.7Z because the former represents a snap-shot
of the investment program while the latter is based on a
3-year moving average. As noted in para 4.15, NHPC's investment
program from FY95 to FY99 is notional.



-41-
Over the forecast period, NHPC's financing requirements amount to a total
of Rs. 236 billion of which 6.7% will be needed for the proposed project,
83.3Z for other capital investments and the balance 10Z will go towards
meeting interest during construction (IDC). NHPC will contribute about
8.6Z from internal resources net of working-capital needs and debt-service.
The balance will be financed through borrowings (40.1Z) and GOI equity
contributions (51.3Z). It is GOI policy to finance NHPC's capital
investment through 50Z equity contribution and 50Z loans. The higher
equity contribution is a result of GOI policy of disbursing equity funds
ahead of loan funds for capital works thereby temporarily increasing the
ratio of equity contribution to loan funds. The proposed Bank loans would
represent about 3.6Z of NHPC's investment needs.



-42-
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.01     The economic analysis of the proposed project is reported in
Annex 5.1 and summarized below. India's power systems are planned on a
regional basis.  Because of this, economic analysis of the proposed project
is based upon a combined analysis of power systems in the Northern Region,
where the components of the project would all be located.
Electricity Demand in the Northern Region
5.02     Electricity consumption in the Northern Region and projected
demands through FY2000 are summarized in Annex 5.1, Tables 1 and 2.
Between FY82 and FY88, the maximum load met increased by 13Z per year.
Through FY2000, CEA projects that maximum demand will increase by 10Z per
year (Annex 5.1, para. 3). Energy consumption through FY88 increased by
12Z per year, and CEA projects increases through FY2000 will average 10Z
per year. Even though generating capacity is projected to increase by llZ
per year, continuing supply deficits through FY2000 seem likely. By
FY2000, when the main components of the proposed project would all be
completed, CEA estimates that the shortage of generating capacity will
still be equivalent to approximately 16Z of maximum demand.
5.03     Between FY82 and FY86, the elasticity of electricity consumption
to economic growth in the Northern Region was approximately 1.6. CEA's
projected demand increases averaging 10Z per year are consistent with this
elasticity and with GOI's targets for economic growth of 6Z per year under
the Eighth Plan and of about 5Z per year thereafter. In view of the
present shortage of generating capacity - estimated to be approximately 25Z
(Annex 5.1, Table 1) - there appears to be comparatively little likelihood
that investments included in the Region's development program will be
under-utilized. This applies particularly to investments in additional
peak generating capacity, with which the transmission investments in the
proposed project are directly associated.
Least-Cost Analysis
5.04     The transmission lines and substations included in the proposed
project will evacuate power from new hydro power stations being implemented
as part of the least-cost development program for the Northern Region.  The
new facilities will also strengthen the Region's existing transmission
system.  CEA's least-cost generation plans for the Region include all hydro
projects available to be implemented during the planning period, as its
analyses show that hydro projects are consistently cheaper than thermal
alternatives. The Bank has reviewed CEA's analyses and has confirmed that
the selection of these hydro projects in favour of thermal alternatives is
likely to be least-cost across the plausible range of planning scenarios
(Annex 5.1, paras. 5 to 8).
Program Analysis
5.05     The benefits that will be derived from the proposed project cannot
easily be separated from the benefits of other investments in generation,
transmission and distribution in the Northern Region. Because of this, it



-43-
is appropriate to focus cost-benefit analysis on the Northern Region as a
whole. For this purpose, analysis has considered the FY90 to FY2000 time-
slice of the Region's development program.
Program Costs
5.06     The capital costs of the program time-slice and associated
operating and maintenance costs are shown in Annex 5.1, Table 3.  Financial
costs have been converted to economic terms by removing taxes and duties
and by shadow-pricing local costs using an SCF of 0.8.  For the most part,
it is not possible to relate investments in generation to specific
investments in transmission and distribution.  Because of this, the
analysis has made allowance for transmission and distribution investments
at the rate of 60Z of generation investments.  This rate reflects the
historic relationships between generation and transmission investments in
the Northern Region and the Bank's knowledge of SEBs' planned investments
in distribution (Annex 5.1, para. 10).
5.07     Operating and maintenance costs are assumed to be 2.5Z per annum
of the capital cost of thermal generating plant, 1.13Z per annum of the
capital costs of hydro power stations and 1.0Z per annum of the capital
costs of transmission and distribution (Annex 5.1, para. 11).  Transmission
and distribution losses are assumed to decline from 22Z of gross generation
presently to 15Z by FY97.  New coal-fired power stations are assumed to
consume 0.61 kg of coal and 10 ml of oil per kWh generated.  The economic
costs of coal and oil are assumed to be, respectively, Rs 274 per tonne and
Rs 2.7 per litre.
Program Benefits
5.08     Most of the benefits that will be derived from the Region's
development program will be in the form of incremental electricity
consumption. Additional benefits may be realized through reducing supply
costs during off-peak periods. Also, the load dispatch component of the
proposed project will reduce supply interruptions and stabilize voltages
and frequencies.  However, these additional benefits are likely to be small
compared with benefits from incremental consumption; they therefore have
not been included in the analysis (Annex 5.1, para. 13).
5.09     Benefits from the development program can be measured partly by
the increase in revenues resulting from the expansion of supplies.
However, the existence of substantial surplus demand at present tariffs
(Annex 5.1, Table 2) suggests that consumers' willingness-to-pay for
additional supplies exceeds present tariff levels.  Incremental revenues
therefore will not reflect the full extent of consumers' benefits.
Consumers' willingness-to-pay for public electricity supplies is related to
the costs they would otherwise incur in meeting their electricity needs
through private supply. Alternatively, in circumstances where private
supply is either infeasible or financially unattractive, consumers'
willingness-to-pay is related to the costs of doing without electricity.
The portion of consumers' total benefits captured through incremental
revenues therefore depends upon the level of tariffs in relation to
consumers' willingness-to-pay. When tariffs are low relative to marginal
costs (as in India), it is important to take account of consumers'
willingness-to-pay in examining whether total benefits exceed the marginal
costs of expanding supplies.



-44-
5.10     At present, the average tariff level in the Northern Region is
approximately 67 paise per kWh. By FY97, the average tariff level is
expected to be 100 paise per kWh in constant 1990 prices (Annex 5.1,
para. 16).  Thereafter, the tariff is assumed to remain constant in real
terms. Applying an SCF of 0.8, the corresponding rate of economic benefit
is estimated to be 80 paise per kWh (Annex 5.1, para. 16).  The associated
consumers' surplus has been estimated as half the savings that consumers
realize through public electricity supply compared with the additional
costs of private supply (Annex 5.1, paras. 18 to 20). In economic terms,
the average rate of additional benefit is estimated to be 97 paise per kWh.
Consumers' total benefits from the development program therefore are
estimated to be 177 paise per kWh (approximately US cents 10.0 per kWh).
Economic Rates of Return
5.11     The estimated rates of return of the FY90 to FY2000 time-slice of
the Northern Region development program are:
(i) 6X, counting as benefits only the economic value of
incremental revenues; and
(ii) 15%, allowing also for the associated consumer surplus.
With a 12X discount factor, the Net Present Value of the time-slice
(including the allowance for consumer surplus) is estimated at Rs 50.87
billion (equivalent to US$ 2.99 billion) (Annex 5.1, para. 21).
5.12     Sensitivity analyses show that the program time-slice could absorb
adverse changes in costs and benefits amounting to about 10 before some
reconfiguration of the program would be required for it to remain economic.
Similarly, as presently configured, the time-slice could absorb an
implementation delay of about three years and remain economic; how long in
practice would depend on the extent of associated cost increases
(Annex 5.1, para. 23). In the event some reconfiguration of the time-slice
became desirable, the least-cost analysis (para. 5.04) provides assurance
that the hydro power stations with which the components of the proposed
project are associated would not be preferred candidates for deferral. It
must also be remembered that the likelihood of adverse sensitivities is no
greater than the likelihood of more favourable outcomes.



-45-
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
6.01     During negotiations, it was agreed that the conclusion of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and NHPC will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (para 3.28).
6.02     During negotiations, GOI agreed to:
(a) Send to the Bank, at least three months prior to the proposed
transfer, a detailed plan for the transfer of relevant
transmission functions of NHPC and the implementation and
system operation functions of NREB, along with related assets
of these activities, to NPTC (para 3.38).
(b) Send to the Bank, no later than December 31, 1991, terms of
reference and a short-list of consultants; and to sign a
contract with the selected consultants, no later than
July 31, 1992, to assist with the design, procurement, and
installation of the load dispatch system (para 3.13).
(c) Issue forest clearances, by June 30, 1992 for transmission
line from Moga to Kishenpur, and by October 31, 1993 for the
transmission lines from Abdullapur to Nathpa Jhakri, Nathpa
Jhakri to Koldam and Koldam to Hissar (para 3.23).
(d)  Make available to NHPC the amounts withdrawn from the loan
account strictly according to the terms and conditions agreed
(para 3.28).
6.03     During negotiations, NHPC agreed to:
(a) Send to the Bank its audited annual accounts together with a
certified report by the auditors and comments of the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India, within seven months
from the end of its financial year, starting in FY91
(para 2.17).
(b) Establish commercial arrangements with NJPC, no later than
one year prior to commissioning the transmission line from
Nathpa Jhakri to Abdullapur, with respect to the power
generated at Nathpa Jhakri (para 3.19).
(c) Implement the proposed financial recoverY program
(para 4.09).
Recommendation
6.04     On the basis of the project justification and the agreements
reached during negotiations, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank
loan, to India, of US$485 million equivalent, with a term of 20 years
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
All-India: Electricity Supply and Demand
Actual                                            Expect.d
Annual                                                       Annual
1981/82       1987/88     Increase (X)         1988/89      1994/96      1999/2000      Increase (%)
1. Power
(a) Install d Capacity (MW)                 32,347        63,906          8.9               69,091      103,918       166,481           9.8
(b) Gonerating Capability (MW)              20,121        31,22S           7.6              34,787       61,418        99,386          10.0
(c) Peak Load (MW)                          20,121 p1    39,680           12.0 b/           43,308       72,711       112,319           9.0
(d) Deficit (MW/X of Peak Load)              n.a.          8,436/           -                8,641/      11,293/       12,964/
21.3                             19.7         16.6          11.6
01'
2. Energy
(a) Generating Capability (CGWh)           113,827       189,417          8.9              211,682      381,858       829,087          10.4
(b) Energy Requirement (GWh) c/            113,827 a/   210,492          10.8 b/           229,882      384,764       693,773           9.0
(c) Deficit (CWh/% of Requirement)           n.a.         21,076/           -               18,080/       2,908/       36,314/
10.0                              7.9          0.8           6.9
I   Constrained by supply capacity.  No estimates are available on the extent of suppressod demand in 1981/82.
b/  Growth rates are overstated as 1981/82 data refloct supply rather than demand.                                                                   OQ 
c/  Total final demand for energy plus transmission and distribution losses.                                                                            X
Source:  Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December 1987, plus Bank estimates.



-47-
Annex 1.1
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECTN
All-India: Energy Consumption By Main Consumer Category
Actual (Z)                   Estimated (Z)
Consumer Category        1981/82    1987/88       1988/89    1994(95    1999/2000
1. Domestic                11.6        13.5         13.9        16.7        19.7
2. Public Lighting           0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9
3. Public Water              2.3         2.2         2.2         2.3         2.4
4. Agriculture             16.9        18.1         18.1        17.6        17.1
5. Industry                57.7        55.3         54.9        52.6        50.1
6. Traction                 2.8         2.4          2.4         2.4         2.4
7. Commercial a/            7.8         7.6          7.6         7.5         7.4
Total                100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0      100.0
a/ Includes consumption by other miscellaneous categories of consumers.
Source: Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December 1987,
plus Bank estimates.



-48-
Annex 1.2
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Sector (as of March 31, 1990)
(Amount in USI Million)
Approval    Closing      Loan      Amount
Borrower     IBRD Loans                               Number       Date       Date      Amount   Disbursed   Status
1.  India      First DVC - Bokaro - Konar                   23       4/50        2/56       18.5        16.7    Complete
2.  India      Second DVC - Malthon - Panchot               72       1/53        6/58       19.5        10 5    Complete
3.  Tata       Trombay Power                               106      11/54        9/66       16.2        13.9    Complete
4.  Tata        Second Trombay                             164       5/57        9/66        9.8         9.7    Complete
5.  India      Third DVC - Durgapur                        203       7/58        6/65       25.0        22.0    Complete
6.  India      Koyna Power                                 223       4/59        4/65       25.0        18.7    Complete
7.  India      Power Transmission                          416       6/65       12/70       70.0        50.0    Complete
8.  India       Second Kothagudem Power                    417       6/65       12/70       14.0        13.8    Complete
9.  Tata       Third Trombay Thermal Power                1549       4/78       12/84      105.0       105.0    Complete
10. India      Ramagundam Thermal Power (*                1648       1/79        6/87       50.0        45.6    Complete
11. India      Farakka Thermal Power (*                   1887       6/80        6/89       25.0         2.5    Complete
12. India      Second Ramagundam Thermal Power (*)  2076            12/81        6/90    280.0 a/   256.4
13. India      Third Rural Electrification               2165        6/82        6/88    304.5         295.5    Complete
14. India      Upper Indravati Hydro                     2278        5/83        6/94      156.4         0.3
15. India      Central Power Transmission (*)            2283        5/83        3/90    250.7          77.6
16. India       Indira Sarovar                           2416        5/84        6/92       17.4         4.9
17. India      Second Farakka Thermal Power (*)          2442        6/84       12/91    300.8          97.3
18. Tata       Fourth Trombay Thermal                    2452        6/84        6/90     135.4        118.9
19. India      Chandrapur Thermal Power                  2544        5/85       12/92    300.0         126.0
20. India       Rihand Power Transmission (*)             2555       5/85       12/89    250.0         165.1
21. India       Kerala State Power                        2582       6/85        9/91      176.0        23.2
22. India       Combined Cycle (*)                        2674       4/86       12/91      485.0       343.9
23. India       Karnataka Power                           2827       6/87       12/95    330.0          21.7
24. India      National Capital Power Supply (*)    2844             6/87        6/95    485.0         120.9
25. India      Talcher Thermal Power (*)                  2845       6/87        3/96    375.0          30.2
26. India       Second Karnataka Power                    2938       5/88       12/96    260.0          20.9
27. India       Uttar Pradesh Power                       2957       6/88       12/96    350.0          26.6
28. India      Nathpa Jhakri Power                        3024       3/89       12/97    485.0          35.0
29. India      Maharashtra Power                          3096       6/89       12/96    400.0          20.0
Total                                                                               5,719.2    2,092.8
(Total Loans for NTPC Projects)                                                    (2,501.5)
a/ Out of original loan amount of US$300 million,
US$20 million was cancelled.
IDA Credits
1.  India      Fourth DVC - Durgapur                        19       2/62       12/69      21.9         19.9    Complete
2.  India       Second Koyna Power                          24       8/62        9/70       21.1        21.1    Complete
3.  India      Kothagudem Power                             37       5/63       12/68       24.1        24.1    Complete
4.  India      Beas Equipment                               89       6/66        6/74       26.6        26.3    Complete
5.  India      Second Power Transmission                   242       4/71        3/77       75.0        72.9    Complete
6.  India      Third Power Transmission                    377       3/73        9/78       85.0        85.0    Complete
7.  India       Rural Electrification                      572       7/75       12/80       57.0        57.0    Complete
8.  India       Fourth Power Transmission                  604       1/76        6/83      150.0       149.9    Complete
9.  India       Sin rauli Thermal Power (*)                685       3/77        6/84      150.0       150.0    Complete
10. India      Korba Thermal Power (*)                    793        4/78        3/86    200.0         199.9    Complete
11. India      Ramagundam Thermal Power (*                874        1/79        6/87    200.0         200.0    Complete
12. India      Second Rural Electrification               911        5/79        3/84     175.0        171.7    Complete
13. India      Second Singrauli Thermal Power (*)   1027             5/80        3/89    300.0         292.8    Complete
14. India      Farakka Thermal Power (*)                 1053        6/80       12/88    225.0         225.0    Complete
15. India      Second Korba Thermal Power (*)            1172        7/81       12/89    400.0         370.3    Complete
16. India      Upper Indravati Hydro                     1356        5/83        6/91     170.0        114.0
17. India       Indira Sarovar                          SF020        5/84        6/92       13.0         0.7
18. India      Indira Sarovar                            1613        5/86        6/92       13.2         0.0
Total                                                                               2,306.9    2,180.6
(Total Credits for NTPC Projects)                                                 (1,475.0)
() NTPC Projects



8                                            |         CIVIL DESIGN - IHO
-& c                                           [        CIVIL DESIGN .11              HOD
ii                               {ENGINEERING GEOLOGY                                  OD D
DESIGN HYDRO MECHANICAL            HOD
DESIGN (ELECT. & MECH.)
|O&M T&C                                    _
|   TRANS. LINE EhGG.         HOGTRNS
CORPORATE PLANNING                    T                                                                        O
PROJECT PLANNING                   INSPECTION & QUALITY
O D          FINANCIAL PLANNING
m    D    |       MANPOWER PLANNING                                                                                                0
RoU                              '                         EDP &SYSTEMS                  HOD 
a G    D   l l   ~~PRODUTVY                F                                                         
m
_                             |         ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~O&M PROJECT  F                                         DZ
Cm                                          PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                 " D)
<  D                              L         ~~~~~NEW PROJECTS                                                      -  Z z          
5Sm    n                                               INVESTIGATION PROJECTS                        mil__D_D                   , 
m                                                             ~FC
TRANS. PROJECTS
|             MIS                                                                a)0 *DMS   
c>:  I                                                                                                                       c- 0 ACCOUNTS   _ ACC JNT
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C aRCRMN                                                           3 l  _
I aD 11 Q r | CO~~~~~~~~~~~NVSTIGATION PROJECTS                                          PLNNN | iO 
Om                                                                                                    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I   2                 A  NTRALAUITRTO    L     ....   
|  COMPANY SECRETARIAT  CONTRACTS~~~0                                                  CJXZ
|  VtGILANCE & SECURITY  Tr   NS. ROJETS                                          l
0
| _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _CM) A                              C    D i
}              TRAINING s HUMANFINA|CE                                                                                          0
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-
H           l           AESOURCPC                                                      HOG PROC
00
0-'
fn                               |                PMATERIALS MANAGEMENT         HID M
ZCONSTRUCTION EGUIPT. PLANNIN
2         ~~~LAW & ARBITrLATIONCOTAS 
*1
I~~~~~OPN ERTR
T~~~~ x~~~~~uuV ~ ~       ~        L



t                    I    ~~~~~~Mide   krZlbmt,
Contracts DvJon    r
t~~~~~~~~~~~Tas Projects                                 Exrw Director    |- 1
s.ii Tr rioJ. cts  Tf      z(Tnrnsnon)
S Ba tt-l   _  |     Swchmy SP ot tit                                                                  Z
Urgih  _      (Corpont ome        ||        (roup (rrntr.)          _         
Duthatl_                                                               <
Slat-ll            Region - I_              Const EqulpL Pig.                                             Z
SBoln Srlu I 1       Rqo  -1                   n0c gt(rm     
LOktO~~~~~~~~~~~~0mm
Tankph r -l't'                                                                                              m
T nSpur - l | ~~~~~~~~Dlretor Projects L  
Dhaullganga-l -         Region-11         -                   ^                                              -ii m
Lotokgi -                                                                                             a  -m_
Rhwert -   gDDZ
Dh~aI.h ar1                                                                         j 
Koel Karo                                                                        B
(T chinicl)o                 Dlrector T cnZ     S                   -1z
|   Flnance    0                                                                   S '
0-
Inwspeton        _         Internal Audit    _                                                                     0
Ouellty Aurance                                                            
.0
Cost Enginee"                Cormefdd         |-_  _ 
Klnganga                                                                                                                              0
Dhauliganga In'.           sWc                  
Gorlgangsl. It I III     Invetigation               Trahnng & HRD                                          L
Pubic RIatlons .
|  Proct Ening.               Adminl tntSo :    L
I                                       ]         Pi.I
|  Est blx hm nt
Z    JOT Iaged
Z-Z xauuv                                                   -flS



Fi SAccounts
Commercial
91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ z
Project Under Region
m           Z
Personnel
Intemal Audit 1/           J                              E  O
m
Z
lntema Audit 1- -D
Personnel/Welftar./
Security/Safety
oc) 
I        Commercial
L   (Op&.~~~~~~~~~~~x 1
0 I 
2Civil Works                L* Oz
Const./Oper.                                                                               I
and Main.       _                                                           6O
E_ lectrical Works            _                     n              m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                  0   X
Mechanical/Equipment                                        O0
Management            __
Store ManagemenV
Procurement_
Project Man agement
(Pianning and Monitoring)_
|  Ouality Control  
Z JO Z afBa
Z*Z xauuv                                                       -T5-



| C.E.(T.L. Design)     j         Power System
| C-E. (S.S. Design)       _G.M._
Contracl and
Mgr. (Maida) Ob M                  CoProcurnl          _
-     Easterm Region
|    4U9r. (Idguri)O         -           G.M./C.E.                                                   Z
0
z-D
Sr. Mgr (J.TTS )
B Z
M
m
|~Mgr. (Snnagar)
J & K Region                             5                   z
| Mgt. (Kishepr       L __                                     .            5                  , 4 <-
I r =           h ==                     G.M./C.E.                                                 O 9O
1:Mgr. (Jamru la  z  
| M9r. (Pathankot)                                                                                5        
zO
Mgr (M                                                                                o
--U~~~~0c
m
Mgr. (Hissar)      _                                         iff                              =
Na0mWa Jhakri-ll                                             _ JL P M~nn  I
Mgr./D.M. (Bilaspur)               (Chandigarh)
G.M./C.E.
Nathpa Jhakn-ll
Mgr. (Karnal)
Nathpa Jhakn-lI
Mgr. (Solan)
Z  JO°T                                                    - aed
E *Z XaUU'v                                             -Z S



D.MJA.M. (E)
Jalandhr-I
D.MJA.M. (E)
Jalandharli_                         Sr. Mgr./Mgr. (E)
2xS/C Moga-Kishanpur
fines-50OCkt. Km.
D.MJA.M. (E)                             PathankaVJammu
Kathua-I
D.M./A.M. (E)                          J & K Region
Kathua-ll                             G.MJC.E.
D.MJA.M. (E)                                                                                    0
Barnala
Sr. MgrlMgr. (E)                                         '. Z
D.M./A.M. (E)                       ioga-Hissar-Bhiwani  
Hssar                         f ines-500Ckt Kmr.       _                                _M
400/200KV. S/S 2x31 SKVA                                      0
Hissu~~~~~~~~~~~Hsa                                                               M
C/:M
r   D.MJA.M. EM
c m
D.M./A.M. (E)                                                                                      O
YwnuNaNag           r                                                     5Z
Sr. Mgr /Mgr. (E)                    3                   3  MnZ
D.M./A.M  E__                     Nathpa-Jhakri-AbduNapur      _              z                     >a
Rarnpw                        Abdullapur S/S 2x31 SMVA                                         c nR  l
Solan                        Mf      
D.M;/A.M. (E)_
Nahan                                             -tCt n
0
D.M./A.M. (E)       l                                                                          OMz
Ksamai                                                                                      (A0
Sr. Mgr./k4gr (E)                                        ffi m
D.M.IA.M. (E)                          Ntp-hki               
Patiala   _               ~~~~~~~line-800Ckt.Krn.  _                                 .
Sunder Nagar/Bilaspur 
D.MJA.M. (E)
Kaithal     
I   D.MJA.M. (E)  
|Bhiwanit
,                 .   |  |         ~~~~~~~~~~Sr. Mgr./Mgr. (E)
|   D.M./A.M. (E)                           AWdullapur-Bawana- 
|Bawana                                   Bhwanli-Jaipur     
Panipat/Kamal
|   D.M./A.M. (E)  
Kama X
Z go Z a5B1?
E *z  xDuu'v                                                 -c



INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Proposed Organization for Project a/
()()H wae    (2) (3)                                         ecms  (2) (3)        Supr
Site works team for each constituent, reporting to appropriate chief engineers.
(1)  Each constituent Is represented at superintending level. The NREB representative
is chairman. Support staff will include 4 engineers trom each constituent.
(2)  Each group is formed by 4 engineers from each constituent with a Superintending
Engineer from NREB as co-ordinator.
(3)  Non-technical support staff will be provkied by NREB.
a/ Projed tmpewntaon Commtttee
Mwnber Socretary NREB (Chakrmn)
Chiet Enginees of State Electriciy Boards, NTPC, NHPC, BBUB
pkW46090c



-55-                            Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 14
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Project Details
The transmission lines included in the project are:
400 kV Single Circuit Lines
Bhiwani to Jaipur                         240 km
Bhiwani to Hissar (2 lines)                35 km
400 kV Double Circuit Lines
Nathpa Jhakri to Abdullapur               150 km
Moga to Hissar                            220 km
Koldam to Hissar                          285 km
Bhiwani to Bawana                         110 km
Abdullapur to Bawana                      200 km
Nathpa Jhakri to Koldam                   125 km
765 kV Single Circuit Lines
Kishenpur to Moga (2 lines)               300 km
It also includes about 40 km of short 220 kV lines to link
substations at Abdullapur and Moga to the existing 220 kV system.
The substations included in the project are:
Bawana                   1 x 315 MVA
Hissar                   2 x 315 MVA
Abdullapur               2 x 315 MVA
Jaipur                   2 x 315 MVA
Koldam                   Reactors only
Moga                     Three line bays
Bhiwani                  Two line bays
Kishenpur                Four line bays
Moga                     1 x 250 MVA
Bhiwani                  Three line bays
Hissar                   Two line bays
Abdullapur               Two line bays



-56-                            Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 14
Review of Proposed Unified Load Dispatch
Scheme for the Northern Region
1.     INTRODUCTION
1.01   A report (1) made following the final preparation mission describes
the status of the facilities for the supervision of generation and
400 kV, 220 kV and 132 kV networks as these existed in late 1988.
It also describes an interim scheme for a short-term, but
significant, increase in the data available to the State,
Corporation and Northern Region system control centers; (2) and
outlines proposals for a unified project to provide comprehensive
energy management system (EMS's) at these centers (3). These
proposals have now been updated by the Northern Region, although the
changes seem quite small.
1.02   Following a short summary of the 1988 situation, extracted from (1),
these revised proposals are described, with comments, in this Annex
together with recommendations on aspects of the scheme and its
implementation.
2.     SYSTEM CONTROL IN 1988/89
2.01   Facilities existing in 1988/89 at the Northern Region Load Dispatch
Center (NRLDC), and in the State Electricity Boards and Corporations
are summarized in Table 1. In general the control centers obtain
most of their real time and statistical information by telephone,
often using "hot lines" permanently hired from the Post and
Telecommunications (P&T) authority. These are not reliable.
2.02   The general system conditions are such that although opportunities
for minimizing operating costs (which require spare generation and
transmission capacity within which to manoeuvre) are limited, these
same conditions require close monitoring of the system to anticipate
and prevent disruptions and losses of supply. In terms of generally
accepted standards, the typical system control facilities found on
systems commensurable in importance with the Northern Region are
even more necessary in the Northern Region and elsewhere.
2.03   As a result of widespread system disturbances in 1987/88, the CEA
recommended that data flow to the NRLDC should be increased to
improve reliability of supply. This resulted in the Interim Scheme
described in the next section.
3.     THE INTERIM SCHEME
3.01   The interim scheme was approved in 1988 to provide the following
improvements:
i)    Telemetering the data of all stations with units larger than
50 MW to the respective SLDC's and thence NRLDC.



-57-                             Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 14
ii)   Telemetering the data of all existing 400 kV substations and
circuits, and inter-state tie lines to respective SLDC's and
thence NRLDC.
iii)  Establishing interim system monitoring centers at Jammu (J&K)
and at Kanpur, facilitating the real time monitoring of the
J&K/NHPC and the NTPC systems.
iv)   Augmenting the facilities at the SLDC's of UPSEB, RSEB, PSEB,
HSEB and BBMB.
v)    Extending hardware and software at NRLDC to match the increase
in data sources and volume.
The work was programmed to be completed by March 1990 and in view of
this very tight time-scale, procurement and implementation were
placed under the Member-Secretary NREB.  The work is outlined in
Table 2.  The cost is estimated at about Rs 165 lakhs (approximately
US$1.0 million).
3.02   It was reported during the appraisal mission in April 1989 that the
work was now expected to be completed in the second quarter of 1990,
i.e. a slip of a month or two.
3.03   The benefits expected from the scheme are:
i)    Improved frequency and voltage.
ii)   The additional monitoring should:
a) reduce the risk of system disturbing and load shedding;
b) enable zero cost energy from hydro stations to be used
more fully;
c) ensure equitable distribution of NTPC and NHPC generation
to the beneficiary states in the Region.
iii)  Restoration from disturbances should be quicker (5-6 hours is
given as the typical time with present facilities, which
compare with say 2-3 hours for major demand losses reported
internationally).
3.04   In view of the system monitoring and communication facilities now
available and the several years delay before the full scheme is
commissioned, the interim scheme is considered well justified.  The
benefits claimed are realistic.
3.05   The need for flexibility in approach to the problems of system
control in the Region is indicated by the fact that in October 1988
the main cause of serious disturbances was said to be voltage
collapse.  Following transmission reinforcements and a crash program
for installation of reactive compensation, transient stability had
become the limiting factor by April 1989.



-58-                           Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 14
4.0    THE UNIFIED SCHEME FOR REGIONAL, STATE AND CORPORATION LOAD DISPATCH
CENTERS AND A TECHNICAL OUTLINE
General
4.01   The Northern Region Electricity Board (NREB) supported in principle
in March 1987 a proposal for establishing modernized State and
Corporation Load Dispatching Centers throughout the Northern Region.
The utilities involved would be NTPC. NHPC, BBMB and the State
Electricity Boards for Punjab, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu &
Kashmir, Haryana, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh.  The installed capacity
of the Region is expected to reach 32,300 MW by 1995, with an
extensive 220 kV and a rapidly developing 400 kV network and some
d.c. links.
4.02   A Memorandum of Understanding was agreed between the State
Electricity Boards and the NREB and the united scheme was approved
by the NREB in October 1987. The Memorandum outlined the following
activities under the Unified Scheme:
i)    endorsement of a previously agreed (1983) control philosophy;
ii)   project planning and detailed project report;
iii) preparation of a detailed specification, etc., through to
successful implementation;
iv)   acquisition of land, construction of control center buildings
and staff quarters;
v)    training of implementation and operational staffs;
vi)   management of funds and accounting;
vii) procurement of consultancy services, if required.
4.03   The scheme would be executed by the NREB Secretariat under the
management of a Project Implementation Committee, consisting of
Chief Engineers of the various boards and two Directors from the
CEA.  The Member-Secretary of the NREB would chair this.  The cost
of the project would be met through central funding with the
exception of land, building, establishment and other infrastruture
facilities which would be financed by the separate utilities.
Ownership of equipment lying within the jurisdiction of the
utilities would be transferred to them on completion of the project.
It is understood that the scheme will almost certainly be approved
by the GOI before the end of 1989. Approval by the CEA was expected
in May/June 1989.
4.04   The main technical features of the unified project are described
below. Observations on the proposals are included at the end of
each section; the more important of these are also collated, with
recommendations, in section 10 of this Annex.



Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 14
Hierarchy of Control Centers
4.05   A multi-level hierarchy of control centers is proposed (Fig. 1).
Data from remote terminal units (some 250) would be sent, mainly by
PLC to about 30 data concentrator sites, which would also be
equipped with man-machine interfaces as sub-load dispatch centers
(sub-LDC's). From there the data would be sent (microwave links) to
two Area Dispatch "Centers" (which might in fact be desks in the
Regional Control Room) and thence to the Regional Control Room. The
location of the main control centers are shown in Fig. 2 and of the
data concentrator sites in Fig. 3. The data links between the
centers are also indicated in these figures.
Comment
4.06   Based on comment, general international practice and noting that the
State Electricity Boards will themselves provide substantial
additional telemetry to the SLDC's, the proposed hierarchy of
RLDC/ALDC's, SLDC's, sub-LDC's and RTU's seems reasonable.
4.07   The functions proposed for the Regional and Area rooms overlap and
as mentioned in the discussions, consideration should be given to
locating the ALDC function within the Regional Room, providing
additional desks with displays for this. It was said that in any
event the Area Rooms would be on the same site as the Regional Room.
User Facilities in the Regional (and Area) Center
4.08   Standard SCADA facilities are proposed covering the 220 kV and
higher voltage network and stations of 100 MW and above.  The main
data transmitted to the center would include breaker and isolator
status, power and reactive power flows, voltage, alarm, station and
generator outputs. Displays would include detailed substation
switching diagrams, system and network overviews. A mimic diagram
is already available at the NRLDC. Logging and processing of
selected system data would be provided.
4.09   Application programs would include load management (to ensure
compliance with agreed energy withdrawals), automatic generation
control, economic dispatch, reactive power management, short-term
demand forecasting, generation scheduling, state estimation and
contingency evaluation. Training facilities would be provided.
4.10   A "well knitted" speech communication system is proposed between the
NRLDC/ALDC's and the SLDC's. In addition, it will be possible to
transmit to and receive from the SLDC's schedules of demand,
generation, inter-state exchange of power, reserve position, etc.



-60-                            Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 14
User Facilities at the State & Electricity Board & Corporation
Centers
4.11   Standard SCADA and display facilities (as above) are proposed
covering all important substations and generating stations within
the States and Corporations. These would include training. A.G.C.
and voltage control signals would be routed from the NRLDC through
these centers to the sub-control centers and thence the RTU's.
Application programs would include short-term load forecasting,
reactive power management and load management (in accordance with
the Regional requirement). Other duties would include preparation
of plant maintenance schedules for Regional approval and preparation
of generation merit orders for use by the Region.
Use Facilities at the Sub-Control Centers (Data Concentrators)
4.12   An essential function of these centers is to act as data
concentrators. Substation and station displays would be provided,
also switching guidance to substation operators, logging and load
management (in accordance with the Regional requirement).
Comment on Real Time User Facilities
4.13   The SCADA facilities to be provided for system monitoring are
typical of a modern center and should be adequate for the Regional,
State and Corporation Centers to supervise the system effectively.
In view of the chronic power and energy shortage in the Northern
Region, the load madagement facility will be more important than is
the case in many utilities and must receive appropriate attention in
specification and implementation. The value of automatic generator
control (a.g.c.) in maintaining the target frequency and inter-area
tie-line flows (in a.c. ties) constant depends on there being a
generation margin. It is suggested that a.g.c. should be deferred
until it is clear that margins will be achieved.
4.14   The NRLDC and the other utilities should, when detailing the
facilities and agreeing functional specifications with suppliers,
aim to minimize the amount of special charges to project
development. Differences between facilities for the States should
be minimized, as should those between the Corporations.  Following
these principles will help to reduce risks of delays in
commissioning and cost escalation.
User Facilities - Short-Term Operational Planning
4.15   There is no specific mention of the coordination of scheduling and
dispatch of the hydro and thermal plant. With this exception, the
computing aids proposed are quite comprehensive and should cater
adequately for short-term operational planning and control in the
Northern Region.



-61-                            Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 14
User Facilities - Longer Term Operational Planning
4.16   The report does not specify the operational planning time-scale
covered but the impression from the applications proposed is that is
quite short - say up to a few weeks. There should be some provision
for system economic and technical studies with a lead time of some
3-5 years, to determine the need for adjustments to construction
programs (including temporary connections), fuel needs, budgets,
tariffs, etc.
4.17   It would if possible be better for such studies not to be done on
the real time computer system. There have been considerable
advances in recent years in using microprocessors for such work.
Alternatively, and if suitable programs exist, equipment which may
be made redundant by the new scheme could be used (development of
program and old computers would hardly be justified).
Suggested SCADA and EMS System
4.18   The project report indicates that the control centers and data
concentrator installations will typically contain the following main
elements:
At RLDC, SLDC's and Corporation Centers
Dual computer system
Mimic board
3 dispatch consoles
1 training console with 2 VDU's
Loggers, line printers, recorders
Data acquisition and display software, applications software
Support hardware and software, e.g. UPC, telecomms
At sub-LDC's (data concentrators)
Dual computer system
VDU's for display of line flows and network status
Loggers and recorders
Data acquisition and display software
Support hardware and software
Comment
4.19   These proposals are typical of many installations.  The provision of
a mimic board is supported. However, it is suggested that when the
specification(s) are written, these should state targets (e.g.
response, reliability) to be met, allowing vendors some freedom to
suggest alternative configurations in addition to the duplex one
included in the present document.



-62-                           Annex 3.1
Page 8 of 14
4.20   There is some doubt about the development at the NRLDC.  The project
report refers to wupgradingw the existing installation.  This was
installed in 1982. It will have been on site some 13 years at the
planned commissioning date of the final scheme a lifetime at which
many utilities would replace real time systems.  It is recommended
that the design studies should include the provision of a complete
new energy management system.  Some pros and cons of the alternative
policies are likely to be:
Pro complete change:
longer life before next major change,
easier to keep up to date with continuing hardware/
software development,
easier changeover to, and commissioning of, the new system,
less special to project software,
easier maintenance of spares,
better suppliers maintenance support.
Against complete change:
hopefully lower cost,
hopefully less software development,
less training for NRLDC system operation and computer
operation/maintenance staffs.
4.21   The feasibility of upgrading the existing system would depend on the
support available from Siemens both to modify the existing software
and to maintain the modified system. There is little doubt that the
best technical solution and the one with the best chance of
achieving an operationally satisfactory, maintainable and extensible
facility will be to install a complete new system.
4.22   The project report notes that it is proposed to engage consultants
to assist in the provision of specific features in this area, for
instance in automatic generation control, load management and the
provision of the EMS at NRLDC. The introduction of high level
international experience is strongly supported and it is in fact
recommended later that consultants should be appointed to advise on
overall management of the project, as well as having a wide ranging
technical brief.



-63--                              Annex 3.1
Page 9 of 14
Communications Systems
4.23   The proposed locations of the Regional, State and Corporation
centers and the data links between these are shown in Fig. 2a. One
link will be provided from the NRLDC to each of the other centers
plus interconnecting links between the centers (Fig. 2b). The links
will be leased from P&T initially (although perhaps replaced by the
industry's own equipment later) and will provide two data channels
12/2400 baud capacity. Speech and telex/facsimile will also be
transmitted.
4.24   Push button or direct dialing telephones will be provided on a
system operation exchange for rapid voice communication between
control centers and with major power stations.
4.25   'Interface Message Processors' (IMP's) (Fig. 2b) are proposed at
each node whereby it will be possible to operate the links as a
network. Information transfer should be possible between any nodes,
with the routes used at any time depending on the availability of
links.
4.26   The locations of the data concentrators in relation to the State and
Corporation centers are shown in Fig. 3. Two channel (1200/2400
baud per channel) microwave links are proposed between each data
concentrator site and the associated State/Corporation center. The
links would initially be loaned from P&T.
4.27   Power Line Carrier (PLC) links will be used between the remote
terminal units (RTU's) and the data concentrator sites, working 50
to 200 baud above the 0.4 - 2.4 kHz voice channel.
Comment
4.28   The project report notes that it is proposed to hire consultants to
assist in the provision of the communications network and on the
standardization of the protocol for data transmission between RTU's
and DC's. This is strongly supported.
4.29   However, a starting point for the design of the communications
network must be its required reliability and information transfer
rates, whatever configuration is adopted. For instance, it will be
necessary to include the following targets, which must be compatible
with the performance targets for the overall EMS.
i)    Reliability of access to each node (e.g. links(s) and IMP
average down times, frequency of failure, etc.).
ii)   "Normal' and maximum link and IMP outages (e.g. one link or
two links simultaneously, etc.).
iii)  Maximum required information transmission rates with all links
available and any acceptable reduction during outages.



-64-                            Annex 3.1
Page 10 of 14
iv)   Any required independence between speech, data and telex/fax
channels. For instance, should the system be designed so that
a credible outage will not interrupt both data and speech
communication with a node.
4.30   As noted above, it is proposed to hire the additional microwave
channels from P&T on the grounds of lower cost and quicker
provision. This seems to be wise in view of the very large work
program. The report argues that in the long-term better
compatibility and reliability would be achieved if the utilities
owned, maintained and operated their own links. This could be done
piecemeal but it would nevertheless be a significant undertaking.
4.31   Another general issue considered is the adoption of standard
protocols for data flows from RTU's to data concentrators and from
data concentrators to Control Centers. Standard protocols would
reduce the risk of the utilities being tied to particular suppliers.
The NREB hopes to agree protocols before specifications are
finalized and appreciates that the standardization could be time
consuming. It will not be allowed to hold up the project,
suppliers' own protocols being used if necessary.
4.32   The question of whether RTU's should be included in the EMS package
is perhaps one of the most difficult procurement issues. It is
quite common practice for RTU's to be provided by one supplier and
the EMS to be provided by another. This question should be
specifically addressed by the project consultants, but a good
technical solution would seem to be to use an EMS supplier's proven
RTU and protocol.



Annex 3.1
-65-                                  Page 11 of 14
PROPOSED LOCATION OF MAIN CONTROL CENTERS
AND SUB CONTROL CENTERS
T PAMPORE
g      J & K,                           KEY:
JUDHAMPUR                               KY
KISHANPPURUH
0)  MAIN CONTROL CENTERS
o    DATA CONCENTRATOR AND
SUB CONTROL CENTERS
| JALLANDAR                               DATA LINK
HAMIRPUR
KUNI-      HIMACHAL PRADESH,
MAR       SIMLA                     APPROXIMATE SCALE
NHPC                    U    GOBINDGARH                     50 MILES
MOGA        ALRO
PATIALA
GANGILWAL
DAMADRP          B8MB, CHANDIGARH
\  ADRI e
DAD RI
HARYANA, PANIPAT
\NARWANA -   NARELA
DADRI             DESU, DELHI
0  MEHRAULI
-O       ~~PARK ST.
BHIWANI            NTPC             RISHIKESH
RATANGARH                  0   BALLABHGARH
MORADABAD
KANPUR
RAJASTHAN,
0  HEERAPURA                   MAINPURI                 UP. LUCKNOW
/  \  PANKI    U SULTANPU R
BHILWARA             KOTA                                                        VARANASI



Annex 3.1
Page 12 of 14
PROPOSED LOCATION OF MAIN CONTROL CENTRES
AND DATA LINKS
J E K                                    KEY:
U DHAM PU REY
NRLDC                                   PUNJAB - STATE ELECTRICITY
BOARD
PATIALA- LOCATION OF PSEB
MAIN CONTROL CENTRE
-   LINKS BETWEEN STATE &
CORPORATION CONTROL CENTRES
NRLDC    LINK TO NORTHERN
REGION CENTRE
NRLDC       HIMACHAL PRADESH.
NHPC,                         SIMLA                         APPROXIMATE SCALE
MOGA
PUNJAB PATIALA                     50 MILES
NRL DC
NRLDC
BBMB,
NRLDC          CHANDIGARH
HARYANA, PATIPAT
NRLDC             DESU, DELHI
N RL DC
NORTHERN REGION, (  )
DELHI
NRLDC
/NTPC
/ ALLABGARH
NRLDC/
ty                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~NRLDC
RAASTHAN, -
HEERAPURA                                            n
UTTAR PRADESH,
LUCKNOW



INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
IMP - INTERFACE MESSAGE PROCESSOR
NRLDC
NEW DELHI
WALDC   EALDC
UDHAMPURNX  m                                                                              LUI
|PATIALA       p                                                                        BALLABHGARH P
I H P SE B  t  [B B M B            H S E B          D E S U 
|SHIMLA        CHANDIGARH         PANIPAT            DELFI   |
OQ :j
m X
EKVW45363C
o -



INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
HIERARCHY - I                                    N R L D C
NEW DEL+*
_____________________. ___ ------------------------
HIERARCHY - 11
see text for comment
WESTERN            on need for these as        EASTERN
AREA LDC             separate centers.         AREA LDC
NEW DELHI                                      NEW DELHI
-                                              ------------------- - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -I
HIERARCHY -MIIa
0n
- DISTRIBUTION
DC - CONTROL CENTRE
AND DATA
~~ P  N.P    N.P    tLP  NP  NP  NP             NP                 N~~~~~~~~~~pi     CONCENTRATOR.
3                       6                                               I     |      _ R . 10    >   . . |RTU - REMOTE TERMINAL
N H P C         PUNJAB         HARYAN            DE                UTTARPRADESH          N T P C             UNIT
(MOGA)         (PATI                    BB      (DEL                (LUCKNOW)        (BAII ABHGARH)    NP - NODAL POINT
J  K  (PPATA                                 RAJA) ATHAN
(UDHAMPUR)        (SIMLA)         GARH)          (JAIPUR)
HIERARCHY OF LOAD DISPATCH
CENTERS IN THE NORTHERN
SUBHIERARCHY - I                                                                                 REGION
(Based on Exhibit I of
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  _ _   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  _ -_  Project  Report)
la>
SUBHERARCHY -.        RTU  ERTU45SS
ou ,-
EK\W45363A    I-. :



PHRSE 1:  Moga - Hissar; Hissar - Ohiwani; 220 kUl Link Lines.
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                                        MF                    199        1993an|  
1ask NaMMths) 11Onto) .. . I1 ,,,                                                                                    , ,,, I..... ,, ,
lrm q 'isffl Lries Phase                    1                          43. 9            3-fl9         _                                            3-N W9
loew Deslgn and SUPA                                                2 5. 7           3-J-9              _                            4-lr-9I
Lhle HateS PurdX e swuq                                             2 6. 3            2-Oct-89                                          23-Jw,-92
toLidars am Hardware                                              26               2-Oct-89                                           13-Jari-92
CondLiCtor and Earr~                                              2 6               -mOct-9_                                         23-a-92
WMiluire IY Con                                                   2 6 -            2-Oct-09                          _3-J_-92
FMd FRctUes                                                          3 0. 2           3-JuH_                                                    3-Nu-92
SWstatkls Prse I                                                       3 6              Qrt -9                                                      7-Oac-92
1ranstarows Ib llters                                               3 3              12-Oct-9m                                                   3Hll-ug92
Seltchgwr b Ins Trans                                               2 5              19-Jn-90                                                   I26-M-92
Control IY RdUy Psft                                                 2 2            26-fJ.--0                                 _29-tlmj-92
PLCC Eq"mt                                                          2 3             26-0 _kNW-'                                                  29-l-J92
SustaUm ErectffM                                                     2 0            26-k-90                                                      7-92
spe  Too tl Pnwit                                                    1 4            20-Sep-90                                     _W_  -91
.  . 0' llus I~ter                                                   I 5            226-Jfh-90                                                   16 Ot 91
Satstatim Stctirues                                                  1 7     .      24Ma90                                  _-91
Cas                                                                  2 1     .      24-a-0                                   _                   26-te-92      .
esdiarin                                                             I 7            26-k0                                      _                 19-91
[a     q scesm                                                         2 2. 5           7-    9                                   2
q tporoto Iffl                          _  _            _         .   24  _  .-90                                               _
P  >
RMstore                          Slack                                        ° 
I~~~~~~~~~T    IL                                 -- I .  1         __                    I              o m
0



PIHASE 2    Kishenptr - t-hoga;   darwana -  lhiailwa        Bhiuwaii  - Jipuir
0t          St                 N t[ < 1L  W9(t  1991  t992    |   t993         |  1994    95    19
Phase 2                                                                   59             2-Jan-90                                                                    2-rew-95
Trmis Lies K6hepjr - logo                                              59             2-Jn-90                                                                     2-M¶ar-95
|  Ckearanes                                                        28             2-Jan-90                                     t-_ IF-92
PrekL Ick a  End   wigg                                             24             I7-0i -90                                          22-Jan-93
Tawas and Erectm (PcixcaseO                                         I 3            17-Dec-9D                               5-1eb92
loe& Design and                                                    'tOj 30          6-feb-92                                                               20-S-W94
Lne MlateriwA Purdc  D S"ig                                         46              t.-J t-9l                                                                  30-Jlan-95
k:iators and Htrdowe                                             37             25-tir-Si                                                                  I tb-Juv94
Conictutor and Earthwwe                                          30             24-fpr-91                                                                  1 7-Oec-93
|ar:otire D CnL 1ccssones                                        41             26-Ju-91                                                                    30-Jan-95
Speoi Took and NWmAnt                                            23              t8-Jr9t                                                                    22-Jan-93
FieWki tumt                                                         32             II-IiaWj92                                                                  2-Mlar-95
Tr. tnes Bamana-Shcw-Jaip                                              48              5-Dkt-90                                                                   28-Oec-94
Tomecs atd ErectiD (Purdhase)                                       1 4            5-Oct-90                               6-Jarn92
Toer Design and SqpgJ                                               24             7-Jnn-92  :l-A _eo-94
Lne 11aterd Purch D Su kpp                                          35             22-Jan-91                                                                 tI -feb-94                     0)
IsAiators mad Hardowe                                            31             25-Ftpr-91                    It-JIn-94
Corcxtor  tnd Earthwe                                            30             25-Pfr-91                                                                  I 8-Dec-93
larthire D) Cori. Fcces"aes                                      30             27-Juzi-9                                                                   ItI-ft-9
SpeaW  Took and Eiw ft                                           23             22-Jan-91                                                                   25-Jan-93
Field Ectutites                                                     31             10-flp-92                                                                   28-Dec-94
Substatbos Phase 2                                                        46             17-Dec-90                                                                   27- Ce-94
Trans10rmers and Reactors                                              36             17-Dec-90                                                                 I KJ0feb-94
S^tchiger D kis Traw                                                   30            24-Ma-91                                                                     ID-Jan-94
Control 0  Ft   Ptsb                                                   28             28-fklug91                                     _-FFeb-94
PtCC Eqpuent                                                           28             28-fkug-91                                                                  0t-feb-94
Spectd Tods ) Plant                                                    24             17-Dec-90                                                                 I 22-Jan-93
kis. D Blzs Materials                                                  25            24-Mlb-91                                                                    30-Ju- 93                   >
|  Sbstatim StrLrttres                                                 23             24-Fpr-91                                                                   27-flpr-93              O-
Cables                                                                 21             14-92                                                 _                     t6-11g-94                   x
Flrudes                                                                26            24-I- 9                                                                      31-FIkg-93               o
Sibstoteu irectxot                                                     36             30- kt-91                                                                - 27-Dec-94
fktudl                          rIkestone                        Slack



PHRSE  3: Dismaw a - fbdullapur - Nathpa Jhakri - K odam  - Hissar
DLuatn            tt
____________Duretn____                 _||_       _Slerl_                                                 _||11  1992    |   19953   |   1994    | 1995    | 1S996    |   1997    | 1998    |  19999
Task Name                                      (MIhsll          De
Phase 3                                                                                          2-Jan-90                                                                                   25-Mar-98
Iraneses 8awna e-Flbapur                                                     74               2-Jan-90                                                                                    25-Ael-96
Clearanes                                                                 45               2-Jam-90                           4-Oct-95
Pred   orl- and Enero g                                                   1 2              4-Sep-90
lower% and Erectlon                                                       1 4       F        -NOv-91                 26-Jan-93
lowsr Design anrd Supp                                                    29              27-J9                                                                                        9-A-95
Lhe Matel-W Purthr   D suppt                                              40                H-Jan-92                                                                                 I- iJu-95
kiadators and tterd' e                                                 37              12-ltr-92     _                                                                             7-Am--95
Candleor and Earttwire                                                  35              t5m -92                                                                                    IIDlJu+f9
Ferttwre D CormL kceswles                                               33              17-Au-92                                                                                   IW6JUFf9
Speca 10013 and EpmntI                                                  27     I          -Janr-92                                                                                  3-tta-94
ftld kRtttli                                                               39             27-Jan-93                                                                                  1 25-Jun-96
SU*statta1 Bmara-lS                                                          43               3-Aug-92          --t ajlff
Irtcrimers and   eatlors                                                  37               3-ftg-92          II 3-Oct-95
Swlttgewr t kst. Irans                                                    3U 2-Jan-93                                                                                                I27-Sep-95
Control * tPay ParWs                                                      25              -t9aV-93                                                                                    350-Et-95
PtLCC  qu,rnt                                                             27               21-Ji-93                                                                                    1-DOIC-95 
Specif  lools D Plant                                                     23               3-Aug-92                                                                                  i -1b994
IL 0 Ebs Materials                                                        24               2-Sep-92                                          I                                          -Oct-94
Ststelton Strucltwes                                                      1 9              12-feb-93                                         I IF-O-94
Cabi                                                                      22               25-0ct-93                                         1                                         27-Sep-95
badelras                                                                  24              20-161-93                                                                                    27-Sep-95
Stbstation [rection                                                       36              17-mar-93                                                                                    9-Mag-96
Trans liWe Fi- N Irlo'                                                       91. 2            2-Jan-90                                                                                   26-OK-97
Cdee-ies                                                                  43               2-Jao-90                           4-ct-93
awers aNd Erection (Purwsl                                                1 4               3-A1-91            1-Aug-92
loi    Design and SuP                                                     40              20-A 92                                                                                    I 2f4-%96
Lim Materel PtrdL *    _Suppig                                            40               4-ar-95                                                                                      30-Ag-96
htines am lIrree                                                        36                -J95                                                                                    1 30-Dug-96
Cmriter &W  lEr-re                                                      35              919-93                                                                                                                     PICff  >
Elrtsile * CmiL .    s55 rW5                                            35              9Ag-95                                                                                   3I-Au                                 X
Specka lotes an  Eq mnt                                                 24              4-M",-93                                                                                    t f- ff-9                      Li
Frt ktk,tIs                                                               57              29-oe-92                                                           _                        26-Oec-97                      0
S*stattns   AI- N J114t                                                      40              29-Wpr-94                                                                                   29-Oct-97
Smltc,gee- O hist Ira.                                                    31        _        -i-9                                                                                     2Fn tr-97
hctual                             lUestone                            Slack
f   _                 11                    *            11            --  1A



- 72-                                 Annex 3. 2
Page 4 of 5
- I                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It
3                    -  3 1  1i X             'XX                                         I     



Annex 3 .2
Page 5 o f 5
,  I             
I        ;>  }S  
| 1, , ' I 111111 ll #:E
i  n       nC       1Cr      |         -
rl e 41: n n | n| e | - |- 1 ~ 
| E rs n _ _ : | ~~~ ~ rs
W;~I 



-74-                            Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 10
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Cost Tables - Assumptions
Taxes, Duties and Foreign Exchange
Summary of Transmission Lines:
Tax       Duty       FE
Preliminary works                    0         0         0
Compensatory afforestion             0         0         0
Buildings                            0         0         0
Towers & erection                  .02       .11       .45
Conductor & earthwire              .03       .18       .78
Conductor accessories                0       .25       1.0
Insulators & hardware              .02       .22       .65
Tools & equipment                    0       .25       1.0
For input to PC Costab - all of the above have been entered as domestic
pricing with the exception of Conductor accessories and Tools and Equipment
which have been input using border pricing.  In the case of the items input
under domestic pricing, the duty and tax have been combined and input as
tax.
Summary for Substations
The substation items have been input as domestic pricing using an
average of 3Z for tax, 20Z for duty and 76Z for foreign exchange, with the
exception of Preliminary Works and Buildings and Civil Works which have
been input with zero tax, duty and foreign exchange. As in the case of
lines, duty and tax have been combined and input as tax.
Foreign Exchange Estimates:
Conductor and Earthwire
Conductor and Earthwire are made of steel and aluminium, and India
is a net importer of both of these. The steel and aluminium represent
about 70Z of the cost of the finished conductor.
Thus if the conductor is locally made         FE = 0.7
if the conductor is foreign              FE = 1.0
Assume the 75Z of the conductor will go to local
manufacturers and 25Z to foreign
Then FE = 0.25 + 0.75 x 0.7    =  0.78
for Conductor  FE = 0.78



Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 10
Towers and Erection
Cost of package is       601 Towers
401 Erection
For the towers, assume that 651 is materials
352 is manufacturing and profit
Assume erection is 100Z local
Assume 75Z of the orders are placed on local manufacturers
and 252 on foreign:
Then FE = (0.25 + 0.65 x 0.75) x 0.60
= 0.44
Assume FE = 0.45
Insulators and Hardware
Assume content of imported material (primarily steel) is 30Z
Assume 502 are locally manufactured and 502 are imported
Then FE = (0.3 x 0.5) + 0.5 = 0.65
Tax and Duty Estimates
Conductor and Earthwire:
If supplied locally         duty = 152
tax = 41
If imported                 duty = 25Z
tax = O0
Assume 752 supplied locally and 252 imported
Then duty = 0.15 x 0.75 + 0.25 x 0.25 = 0.18
Tax         =  0.75 x 0.4 = 0.3
Towers and Erection
If towers are supplied locally          duty = 152
tax = 42
If towers are imported                  duty = 252
tax = 02
Assume 75Z supplied locally, 252 imported and
package is 60Z towers and 402 erection, then:
duty = (0.15 x 0.75 + 0.25 x 0.25) x 0.6 = 0.11
tax   = (0.04 x 0.75) x 0.6 = 0.02



-76~-
Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 10
Insulators and Hardware
If supplied locally       duty on insulators  = 20%
duty on hardware    = 15%
tax                   =  4Z
If imported               duty  = 25Z
tax   =  0%
Assume package is 60X insulators and 40% hardware
Average duty = (0.6 x 0.2) + (0.4 x 0.15) = 0.18
and assume 50 is locally made and 50Z is imported
Total duty = (0.18 x 0.5) + (0.5 x 0.25) = 0.22
Tax = 0.02
Substations
Taxes and duties:
For local supply        tax =  4X
duty = 18%
For imported items    tax =  0O
duty = 25Z
Assume 70% local supply and 30% imported
Duty = (0.18 x 0.7) + (0.25 x 0.3) = 0.20
Tax   = (0.04 x 0.7) = 0.03
Foreign Exchange
FE = (0.65 x 0.7) + 0.3 = 0.76



77                                    Annex 3.3
Page 4 of 10
COMPARISON OF SUBSTATION COSTS
Station                        Line                  Transmission                  Cost           $/kVA
Bays                      MVA                       SM
Bawana                        4 x 400                   1 x 315                    17.9          57/kVA
Hissar                        2 x 400 (Initial)         2 x 315                    29.9          48/kVA
Abdullapur                    2 x 400                   2 x 315                    28.2          451kVA
Jaipur                        2 x 400                   2 x 315                    20.9          33/kVA
Koldam                        4 x 400                  4 x 100 (Reactors)          14.3          36/kVAR
Moga                          3 x 400                   3 x 100 (Reactors)          6.6          22/kVAR
Bhiwani                       2 x 400                   2 x 100 (Reactors)          3.9          20/kVAR
Kishenpur                     4 x 400                  4 x 100 (Reactors)          13.3          11/kVAR
Moga - Phase 2                1 x 800                   1 x 200 (Reactors)          9.0          45/kVAR
Bhiwani - Phase 3             3 x 400                   3 x                         7.9
Hissar - Phase 2              2 x 800
Abdullapur - Phase 3          2 x 400                   2 x 100                     4.0          20/kVAR
Dehar - Phase 3               1 x 400                   1 x 100                     2.5          25/kVAR
COMPARION OF TRANSMISSION LINE UNIT COSTS A/
Line Section                           kV         km       Circuits      km         SM          $/km
Nathpa Jhakri-Abdullapur               400        150         DC         150       77.4        516,000 b/
Moga-Hissar                            800        220         SC         220       53.9        245,000
Koldam-Hissar                          400        285         DC         285      114.2        401,000
Bhiwani-Bawana                         400        110         DC         110       29.4        267,000
Abdullapur-Bawana                      400        200         DC         200       64.7        323,000
Nathpa Jhakri-Koldam                   400        125         DC         125       71.4        571,000 b/
Bhiwani-Jaipur                         400        240         DC         240       30.9        129,000
Kishenpur-Moga                         400        300       2xSC         600      202.0        367,000 b/
Bhiwani-Hissar                         400         35       2xSC          70        9.8        140,000
220 kV Links                           220         92         SC          92       10.6        115,000
Koldam-Dehar                           400         10         SC          10        2.1        210,000
a/ Including contingencies.
E/ High unit cost due to mountainous terrain.
Note:  The SC 800 kV cost at $245,000 is relative low but is advantageous
compared to SC 400 kV at $140,000 or 220 kV at $115,000.



INDIA
National Hydroetectric Power Corporation (NHPC)
Northern Region Transmission
Swunary Accounts Cost Sumnary
Rupee(h)                            USS(")                          X Total
---- -------------------------    ---------------------------   X Foreign              Base
Local   Foreign       Total        Local  Foreign    Total        Exchange       Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Preliminary Works
1. Phase 1                           56.4        0.0       56.4          3.1       0.0       3.1            0.0        0.4
2. Phase 2                           90.4        0.0       90.4           5.0       0.0       5.0           0.0        0.7
3. Phase 3                           60.4        0.0       60.4           3.3       0.0       3.3           0.0        0.5
Sub-Total                              207.2        0.0      207.2          11.4       0.0      11.4           0.0         1.6
B. Civil Works
1. Phase 1                           30.1        0.0       30.1           1.7      0.0        1.7           0.0        0.2
2. Phase 2                           27.1        0.0       27.1           1.5       0.0       1.5           0.0        0.2
3. Phase 3                           25.0        0.0       25.0           1.4       0.0       1.4           0.0        0.2
Sub-Total                               82.2         0.0      82.2           4.5       0.0       4.5           0.0         0.7
C. Compensatory Affores.                28.3        0.0       28.3           1.6       0.0       1.6           0.0         0.2
0. Transmission Line Ph 1
1. Cond.,Earthwire & Access.         81.6      335.9      417.4          5.0      18.0      22.9           80.5        3.3
2. Insulators & Fittings             18.0       38.6       56.6           1.1       2.0       3.1          68.1        0.4
3. Towers L Erection                177.1      166.9      344.0          10.4      8.5       18.9          48.5        2.7
Sub-Total                              276.7      541.4      818.0          16.5      28.5      44.9          66.2        6.5
E. Transmission Lines Ph 2
1. Cond.,Earthwire & Access.        261.5    1066.3    1327.8            15.9     57.0      73.0           80.3       10.5
2. Insulators & Fittings             94.6      202.5      297.1           5.7      10.6      16.3          68.1        2.4
3. Towers L Erection                689.2      649.5    1338.8          40.5      33.1       73.6          48.5       10.6
Sub-Total                             1045.3    1918.3    2963.6            62.1    100.7    162.8            64.7       23.5
F. Transmission Lines Ph 3
1. Cond., Earthwire & Acces.        267.5    1090.9    1358.4           16.3      58.3      74.6           80.3       10.7
2. Insulators & Fittings            133.8      286.2      419.9          8.1       15.0     23.1           68.1        3.3
3. Towers & Erection                958.9      903.8    1862.7          56.3      46.1      102.3          48.5       14.7
Sub-Total                             1360.2    2280.8    3641.1            80.7    119.4    200.1            62.6       28.8
G. Substations Ph 1
1. Structures                         4.1       15.1       19.2          0.3        0.8       1.1          78.5        0.2
2. Transformers & Reactors           21.2       77.3       98.5           1.3       4.1       5.4          78.5        0.8
3. Switchgear & Inst. Trnsf.         35.6      129.7      165.3           2.2       6.9       9.1          78.5         1.3
4. Control L Proctn. Panels           5.1       18.5       23.5           0.3       1.0       1.3          78.5        0.2
5. Communications                     4.8       17.6       22.4           0.3       0.9       1.2          78.5        0.2
6. Auxiliaries                        6.4       23.5       29.9           0.4       1.2       1.6          78.5        0.2                                    70 rt
7. Cables                             2.1        7.7        9.8          0.1       0.4        0.5          78.5        0.1 
8. Bus Bar Materials                  3.6       13.0       16.6           0.2       0.7       0.9          78.5        0.1
9. Erection                          35.8       17.7       53.5           2.1       0.9       2.9          33.1        0.4                                    0
Sub-Total                              118.7      320.1      438.8           7.1      17.0      24.1          72.9        3.5
H. Substations Ph 2                                                                                                                                              o
1. Structures                         5.9       21.5       27.4          0.4       1.1        1.5          78.5        0.2
2. Transformers & Reactors           53.6      195.5      249.1           3.3      10.4      13.7          78.5        2.0
3. Switchgear & Inst. Trnsf.         54.4      198.3      252.6           3.3      10.6      13.9          78.5        2.0
4. Control &Proctn. Panels            7.4       27.1       34.6           0.5       1.4       1.9          78.5        0.3



5. Communications                   6.8      24.9       31.7         0.4       1.3      1.7          78.5       0.3
6. Auxiliaries                      5.3      19.2       24.4         0.3       1.0      1.3          78.5       0.2
7. Cables                           3.1      11.5       14.6         0.2       0.6      0.8          78.5       0.1
8. Bus Bar Materials                5.8      21.0       26.8         0.4       1.1      1.5          78.5       0.2
9. Erection                        57.8      28.5       86.4         3.3       1.4      4.7          33.1       0.7
Sub-Total                            200.1     547.5      747.6        12.0      29.0     41.1          73.2       5.9
1. Substations Ph 3
1. Structures                       5.0      18.2       23.2         0.3       1.0      1.3          78.5       0.2
2. Trasformers & Reactors          31.8     116.2      148.0         2.0       6.2      8.1          78.5        1.2
3. Switchgear & Inst. Trnsf.       41.8     152.3      194.1         2.6       8.1     10.7          78.5        1.5
4. Control & Proctn. Panels         6.6      23.9       30.5         0.4       1.3      1.7          78.5       0.2
5. Communications                   6.9      25.1       32.0         0.4       1.3      1.8          78.5       0.3
6. Auxiliaries                      6.4      23.5       29.9         0.4       1.2      1.6          78.5        0.2
7. Cables                           2.5       9.0       11.5         0.2       0.5      0.6          78.5       0.1
8. Bus Bar Materials                4.4      15.9       20.3         0.3       0.8      1.1          78.5       0.2
9. Erection                        44.5      22.0       66.5         2.6       1.1      3.7          33.1       0.5
Sub-Total                            149.8     406.1      556.0         9.0      21.5     30.5          73.0        4.4
J. Tools & Equipment
1. Phase 1                          0.7       5.4       6.1          0.0       0.3      0.3          88.3       0.0
2. Phase 2                          9.2      36.2       45.3         0.5       2.0      2.5          79.8       0.4
3. Phase 3                          9.0      35.8       44.8         0.5       2.0      2.5          79.9        0.4
Sub-Total                             18.9      77.4       96.3         1.1       4.2      5.3          80.4        0.8
K. Corp. Comms. Equipment
1. Satellite Earth Stations         9.9      39.7       49.7         0.5       2.2      2.7          80.0       0.4
2. Data & Voice Interface           4.8      19.4       24.2         0.3       1.1      1.3          80.0       0.2
3. Intra-site Communications        2.7       8.5       11.2         0.2       0.5      0.6          75.5       0.1
4. Engineering & Installatn.        5.4       6.3       11.7         0.3       0.3      0.6          53.5       0.1
5. Power Su4pplies                  0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0           0.0       0.0
6. Civil Works                      2.1       0.6        2.7         0.1       0.0      0.1          22.4       0.0
Sub-Total                             25.0      74.4       99.5         1.4       4.1      5.5          74.8        0.8
L. Load Dispatch Eqpt.
1. Engy. Management Systems       191.6     483.4     674.9         11.5      25.5     37.1          71.6       5.3
2. Coqmuter Network                21.8      35.7       57.5         1.3       1.9      3.2          62.1       0.5
3. Remote Terminal Units           71.2      54.7      125.9         4.2       2.8      6.9          43.4        1.0
4. Transducers * Relays            32.6       9.4       41.9         1.8       0.5      2.3          22.4       0.3
5. Automatic Gen. Control          24.7       7.1       31.8         1.4       0.3      1.7          22.4       0.3
6. Communications                 217.3      31.8      249.1        12.1       1.6     13.7          12.8       2.0
7. Information Trans. Eqpt.        27.9      21.4      49.3          1.6       1.1      2.7          43.3       0.4
8. Power Supply Equipment          40.3      10.4       50.8         2.3       0.5      2.8          20.6       0.4
9. Buildings Land & Services      275.7      62.7      338.4        15.5       3.1     18.6          18.5       2.7
Sub-Total                            903.1     716.6    1619.7         51.8      37.2     89.0          44.2       12.8
M. Technical Assistance
1. Consutting Serv. (NHPC)          0.0      27.6       27.6         0.0       1.5      1.5         100.0       0.2                                  Q  D
2. Consulting Serv.(Ld. Dis)        0.0      55.3       55.3         0 0       3.0      3.0         100.0       0.4                                      X
3. Training (Load Dispatch)        11.0      21.9       32.9         0.6       1.2      1.8          66.6       0.3                                   co
4. Training (NHPC)                  0.0       9.3        9.3         0.0       0.5      0.5         100.0       0.1                                   o .
Sub-Total                             11.0     114.2      125.2         0.6       6.3      6.9          91.2        1.0
N. Eng. & Adafnistration                                                                                                                                 o
1. Eng. & Admin. (NHPC)          1045.3       0.0    1045.3         57.4       0.0     57.4           0.0       8.3
2. Eng. & Admin. (NREB)           168.7       0.0      168.7         9.3       0.0      9.3           0.0       1.3
Sub-Total                           1214.0       0.0    1214.0         66.7       0.0     66.7           0.0       9.6
--- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --   - -- -- -- -- --



Total BASELINE COSTS                 5640.8    6996.7   12637.4         326.4    367.9    694.4            53.0     100.0
Physical Contingencies            444.9      692.6    1137.5          24.4      38.1     62.5           60.9       9.0
Price Contingencies               2864.1    4747.7    7611.8          43.3    140.2    183.6            76.4      26.4
Totat PROJECTS COSTS                 8949.8   12437.0   21386.8         394.2    546.2    940.4            58.1     135.4
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 -  6/5/1990  10:31
(D
X>
0.
0



INDIA
National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC)
Northern Region Transmission
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USS(N)
90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Preliminary Works
1. Phase 1                          1.6       1.7      0.3       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       3.7
2. Phase 2                          1.5       2.3       1.5      0.6       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       6.0
3. Phase 3                          0.0       0.1      0.3       0.9       1.3      0.9       0.6      0.2       4.3
Sib-Totat                              3.1       4.1       2.1      1.6       1.3      0.9       0.6      0.2      14.0
B. Civil Works
1. Phase 1                          0.9       0.8      0.3       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       2.0
2. Phase 2                          0.2       0.9      0.8      -0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       1.8
3. Phase 3                          0.0       0.0      0.2       0.5       0.7      0.3       0.0      0.0       1.7
Sub-Total                              1.0       1.7       1.2      0.5       0.7      0.3       0.0      0.0       5.5
C. Compensatory Affores.               0.2       0.4      0.6       0.3       0.4      0.0       0.0      0.0       1.9
D. Transmission Line Ph 1
1. Cond.,Earthwire & Access.        2.6      13.9     12.2       0.7      0.1       0.0       0.0      0.0      29.5
2. Insulators & Fittings            0.4       1.8      1.6       0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       4.0
3. Towers & Erection                8.5       7.7      5.0       2.0       0.2      0.1       0.0      0.0      23.5
Sub-Total                             11.4      23.4      18.9      2.8       0.3      0.1       0.0      0.0      56.9
E. Transmission Lines Ph 2
1. Cond.,Earthwire & Access.        0.0       9.2     43.5      40.6      5.3       0.0       0.0      0.0      98.6
2. Insulators & Fittings            0.0       2.0      9.6       9.0       1.2      0.0       0.0      0.0      21.8
3. Towers & Erection                0.0       9.0     28.2      44.0      10.2      5.3       0.0      0.0      96.6
Sub-Total                              0.0      20.3     81.3      93.5      16.7      5.3       0.0      0.0    217.1
F. Transmission Lines Ph 3
1. Cond., Earthuire & Acces.        0.0       0.0      0.0       4.8     30.9      46.5      24.7      6.6    113.5
2. Insulators & Fittings            0.0       0.0      0.0       1.3       8.6     14.6       7.9      2.2      34.6
3. Towers & Erection                0.0       0.0     13.1      27.2      42.4     36.8      15.2      7.9    142.6
…=========  ========= =========  ========= ====_=====  ========= =========  =========
Sub-Total                              0.0       0.0      13.1     33.2      82.0     97.9      47.9      16.8    290.8                                       :j
Q :D
G. Substations Ph 1                                                                                                                                           x X
1. Structures                       0.1       1.1      0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       1.3                                    oo
2. Transformers & Reactors          0.7       5.5      0.7       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       6.8                                       w
3. Switchgear & Inst. Trnsf.        1.1       9.2       1.2      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      11.5
4. Control & Proctn. Panels         0.2       1.3      0.2       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       1.6
5. Communications                   0.0       0.8      0.8       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       1.6                                    o
6. Auxiliaries                      0.0       0.4       1.7      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       2.2
7. Cables                           0.0       0.1      0.6       0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.7
8. Bus Bar Materials                0.1       0.9      0.1       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       1.2
9. Erection                         0.0       0.7       2.6      0.4       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       3.7



Sub-Total                             2.1    19.9       8.1      0.5      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     30.6
N. Substations Ph 2
1. Structures                      0.0      0.2      1.0      0.8      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      2.0
2. Transformers & Reactors         0.0      1.7      5.4      9.5      2.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     18.7
3. Switchgear & Inst. Trnsf.       0.0      0.0      1.8      9.7      8.1       0.0      0.0      0.0     19.6
4. Control &Proctn. Panels         0.0      0.0      0.3       1.3      1.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      2.7
5. Communications                  0.0      0.0      0.2       1.2      1.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      2.5
6. Auxilieries                     0.0      0.0      0.2      0.9       0.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.9
7. Cables                          0.0      0.0      0.1      0.6      0.5       0.0      0.0      0.0      1.1
8. Bus Bar Materials               0.0      0.2      1.0      0.8       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      2.0
9. Erection                        0.0      0.0      0.6       1.8      2.6      1.3      0.0      0.0      6.3
Sub-Total                             0.0      2.1     10.6     26.7      16.0      1.3      0.0      0.0     56.8
I. Substations Ph 3
1. Structures                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1      0.7      0.8       0.3      0.0      1.9
2. Trasformers & Reactors          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.7       2.6      5.2      3.5      0.6     12.4
3. Switchgear & Inst. Trnsf.       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.9      5.3      7.5      3.1     16.8
4. Control & Proctn. Panels        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.1      0.8      1.2      0.5      2.6
5. Comwnmhications                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.1      0.7      1.3      0.7      2.8
6. Auxiliaries                     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.2      1.3      1.0      0.0      2.5
7. Cables                          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.1      0.5      0.4      0.0      1.0
8. Bus Bar Materials               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1       0.5      0.8      0.3      0.0      1.7                                   I
9. Erection                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.5      1.5      2.1      1.1      5.2                                   00
Sub-Total                             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.9       5.7     16.9     17.6      5.9     46.9
J. Tools & Equipment
1. Phase 1                         0.0      0.3      0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.4
2. Phase 2                         0.0      0.7      2.5      0.1       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      3.3
3. Phase 3                         0.0      0.0      0.3       1.4      1.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      3.5
Sub-Total                             0.0      1.0      2.9      1.5       1.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      7.2
K. Corp. Comns. Equipment
1. Satellite Earth Stations        0.0      0.0      1.9      2.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      3.9
2. Data & Voice Interface          0.0      0.0      0.9      1.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      1.9
3. lntra-site Communications       0.0      0.0      0.4      0.4       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.9
4. Engineering & Installatn.       0.0      0.0      0.4      0.5       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.9
5. Power Supplies                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
6. Civil Works                     0.0      0.0      0.2      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.2
Sub-Total                             0.0      0.0      3.8      3.9      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      7.7
L Load Dispatch Eqpt.
1. Engy. management Systems        0.0      0.0      0.0      2.6      18.7     19.6      8.8      6.0     55.6
2 Z. Computer Network              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.6       1.1      1.8      0.9      0.0      4.4
3. Remote Terminal Units           0.0      0.0      0.0      2.3       2.8      3.9      0.5      0.0      9.5                                   
4. Transducers & Relays            0.0      0.0      0.0       0.7      0.9      1.3      0.2      0.0      3.1                                    x
5. Automatic Gen. Control          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.6       0.7      1.0      0.1      0.0      2.3                                    Lo
6. Communications                  0.0      0.0      0.0      3.5       7.2      5.5      1.9      0.0     18.1
7. Information Trans. Eqpt.        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.7      1.9      1.2      0.1      3.9
8. Power Supply Equjipment         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.7       1.3      1.7      0.0      0.0      3.7
9. Buildings Land & Services       0.0      0.0      2.3      4.8       8.6      8.9      0.0      0.0     24.5
Sub-Total                             0.0      0.0      2.3      15.7    42.0    45.6       13.6      6.1    125.3
M. Technical Assistance



1. Consulting Serv. (NHPC)          0.6       0.3      0.3       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1      0.0       1.5
2. Consulting Serv.(Ld. Dis)        0.0       0.0      1.2       1.1       0.5      0.2       0.2      0.0       3.0
3. Training (Load Dispatch)         0.0       0.0      0.5       0.5       0.5      0.2       0.0      0.0       1.7
4. Training (NHPC)                  0.2       0.2      0.2       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.5
Sub-Total                              0.7       0.5      2.2       1.6       1.0      0.4       0.2      0.0       6.8
N. Eng. & Administration
1. Eng. & Acknin. (NHPC)            1.7       6.7     12.9      14.8     11.1      10.8       5.7      2.0      65.8
2. Eng. & Acdnin. (NRES)            0.0       0.0      0.2       1.0       2.5      2.5       0.7      0.3       7.2
Sub-Total                               1.7      6.7      13.1     15.9      13.7     13.3       6.4       2.3     73.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                   20.5      80.2    160.2    198.7    181.4    182.0        86.3      31.2    940.4
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 6/5/1990 10:32
00 :
o 
l.9
P '
0D 



-84--
Annex  3.4
Page 1 of 17
Schedule Name: Transmission Lines . Substations Phase 1
Responsible      Gulstone
As-of Date    : 1-Jun-89  9:00am           Schedule File : NNPCPH1
Select filter: Procurement
Total S  Start             Duratn  End
Task Name                                         Notes               (EAC)  Date               (Mths)  Date
Transmission Lines Phase 1                                .         57.00  3-Jan-89             43.9  3-Nov-92
+ lower Design and Supply                      LCB/S&E             23.40  3-Jan-89             25.7  4-Apr-91
Line Material Purch. & Supply                                    33.60  2-Oct-89             26.3 23-Jan-92
+ Insulators and Hardware                   IC8/Goods            4.00  2-Oct-89             26   13-Jan-92
• Conductor and Earthwire                   ICB7Goods           27.50 12-Oct-89             26   23-Jan-92
* Earthwire & Cond. Accessories             ICB/Goods            2.10  2-Oct-89            26   13-Jan-92
Substations Phase 1                                                 32.00 12-Oct-89             36    7-Dec-92
+ Transformers & Reactors                      [CB/Goods            6.80 12-Oct-89             33   31-Aug-92
• Switchgear & Ins Trans                       ICB/Goods           11.50 19-Jan-90             25   26-Mar-92
+ Control & Relay Panels                       ICB/Goods            2.60 26-Jun-90             22   28-May-92
* PLCC Equipment                               ICE/Goods            1.60 26-Jun-90             23   29-Jun-92
+ Substation Erection                          LCE/Works            3.70 26-Jun-90             28    7-Dec-92
+ Special Toots & Plant                        LIS/Goods            0.40 28-Sep-90             14   19-Dec-91
+ Ins. & Bus Materials                         LCB/Goods            1.20 26-Jun-90             15   16-Oct-91
- Substation Structures                        LCE/Goods            1.30 24-May-90             17   18-Nov-91
* Cables                                       LCB/Goods            0.70 24-May-90             21   26-Mar-92
*Auxiliaries                                   LCB/Goods            2.20 26-Jun-90             17   19-Dec-91
• Consulting Services                             Cons.    +            1.10  7-Jun-89            22.5 28-May-91
+ Corporate Cofmmnications                        ICB/TK   +            7.70  1-Nov-90            24    8-Dec-92
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 1



-85-                                             Annex  3.4
Page 2 of 17
Schedule Name   Transmission Lines & Substations Phase 1
Responsible   : Gulstone
As-of Date     : 1-Jun-89  9:00am         Schedule File : NHPCPH1
Select filter : Procurement
Total S  Start             Ouratn  End
Task Name                                         Notes               (EAC)  Date               (Mths)  Date
Transmission Lines Phase 1                                .         57.00  3-Jan-89             43.9  3-Nov-92
Tower Design and Supply                     LCB/SSE              23.40  3-Jan-89            25.7  4-Apr-91
Line Material Purch. & Supply                                    33.60  2-oct-89            26.3 23-Jan-92
Insulators and Hardware                  ICB/Goods            4.00  2-Oct-89             26   13-Jan-92
Bidding Period                                             0.00  2-Oct-89              3    8-Jan-90
Bid Evaluation                                             0.00  9-Jan-90              3   12-Apr-90
Bank Review of Evaluation                                  0.00 13-Apr-90              1   14-May-90
Sign Contract                                              0.00 15-Jun-90              0   15-Jun-90
Manufacture                                                0.00 15-Jun-90              3   18-Sep-90
Supply                                                     0.00 26-Dec-90             12   13-Jan-92
Conductor and Earthwire                  ICB/Goods            27.50 12-Oct-89            26   23-Jan-92
Bidding Period                                             0.00 12-Oct-89              3   18-Jan-90
Bid Evaluation                                             0.00 19-Jan-90              6   26-Jul-90
Bank Review of Evaluation                                  0.00 27-JuL-90              1   27-Aug-90
Sign Contract                                              0.00 28-Sep-90              0   28-Sep-90
Manufacture                                                0.00 28-Sep-90             12   16-Oct-91
Supply                                                     0.00  7-Feb-91             11   23-Jan-92
Earthwire & Cond. Accessories            ICB/Goods             2.10  2-Oct-89            26   13-Jan-92
Bidding Period                                             0.00  2-Oct-89              3    8-Jan-90
Bid Evaluation                                             0.00  9-Jan-90              3   12-Apr-90
Bank Review of Evaluation                                  0.00 13-Apr-90              1   14-May-90
Sign Contract                                              0.00 15-Jun-90              0   15-Jun-90
Manufacture                                                0.00 15-Jun-90              3   18-Sep-90
Supply                                                     0.00 26-Dec-90             12   13-Jan-92
Substations Phase 1                                                 32.00 12-Oct-89             36    7-Dec-92
Transformers & Reactors                      ICB/Goods            6.80 12-Oct-89            33   31-Aug-92
Bidding Period                                                 0.00 12-Oct-89             3   18-Jan-90
Bid Evaluation                                                 0.00 19-Jan-90             6   26-Jul-90
Bank Review of Evaluation                                      0.00 27-Jul-90             1   27-Aug-90
Sign Contract                                                  0.00 28-Sep-90             0   28-Sep-90
Manufacture                                                    0.00 28-Sep-90            17   26-Mar-92
Erect & Comnission                                             0.00 29-May-92             3   31-Aug-92
Switchgear & Ins Trans                       ICB/Goods           11.50 19-Jan-90            25   26-Mar-92
Bidding Period                                                 0.00 19-Jan-90             3   23-Apr-90
Bid Evaluation                                                 0.00 24-Apr-90             3   26-Jul-90
Bank Review of Evaluation                                      0.00 27-JuL-90             1   27-Aug-90
Sign Contract                                                  0.00 28-Sep-90             0   28-Sep-90
Manufacture                                                    0.00 28-Sep-90             9   15-Jul-91
Erect & Comnission                                             0.00 16-Jul-91             8   26-Mar-92
Control & Relay Panels                       ICB/Goods            2.60 26-Jun-90            22   28-May-92
Bidding Period                                                 0.00 26-Jun-90             3   27-Sep-90
Bid Evaluation                                                 0.00 28-Sep-90             4    6-Feb-91
Bank Review of Evaluation                                      0.00  7-Feb-91             1   11-Mar-91
Sign Contract                                                  0.00 11-Apr-91             0   11-Apr-91
Manufacture                                                    0.00 11-Apr-91            10   25-Feb-92
Erect & Commission                                             0.00 26-Feb-92             3   28-May-92
PLCC Equipment                               ICB/Goods            1.60 26-Jun-90            23   29-Jun-92
Bidding Period                                                 0.00 26-Jun-90             3   27-Sep-90
Bid Evaluation                                                 0.00 28-Seo-90             4    6-Feb-91
Bank Review of Evaluation                                      0.00  7-Feb-91             1   11-Mar-91
Sign Contract                                                  0.00 11-Apr-91             0   11-Apr-91
Manufacture                                                    0.00 11-Apr-91            11   26-mar-92
Erect & Comission                                              0.00 27-Mar-92             3   29-Jun-92
Substation Erection                          LCB/Works            3.70 26-Jun-90            28    7-Dec-92
Bidding Period                                                 0.00 26-Jun-90             2   27-Aug-90
Bid Evaluation                                                 0.00 28-Aug-90             4    4-Jan-91
Sign Contract                                                  0.00  7-Feb-91             0    7-Feb-91
Bank Post Review of Evaluation                                 0.00  7-Jan-91             1    6-Feb-91
Erection and Comnissioning                                     0.00  7-Feb-91            21    7-Dec-92
Special Tools & Plant                        LIB/Goods            0.40 28-Sep-90             14   19-Dec-91
Bidding Period                                                 0.00 28-Sep-90             2    3-Dec-90
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 1



-88-                                             Annex  3.4
Page 5 of 17
Schedule Name   Transmission Lines and Substations Phase 2
Responsible      Gulstone
As-of Date       4-Jun-90                 Schedule File : NHPC2A
Select filter   Procurement
Dependencies    Engineering (Optimize Line)
Total S  Start             Duratn  End
Task Name                                         Notes                (EAC)  Date              (Mths)  Date
Phase 2                                                            219.70  2-Jan-90             59    2-Mar-95
Trans. Lines Kishenpur - Moga                                   170.20  2-Jan-90            59    2-Mar-95
Towers and Erection (Purchase)           ICB/S&E              78.00 17-Dec-90            13    5-Feb-92
Prepare Specifications                                      0.00 17-Dec-90             3   22-Mar-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                     0.00 25-Mar-91             1   23-Apr-91
Bidding Period                                              0.00 24-Apr-91             3   26-Jul-91
Bid Evaluation                                              0.00 29-Jul-91             4    2-Dec-91
Bank Review of Evaluation                                   0.00  3-Dec-91             1    3-Jan-92
Sign Contract                                              0.00  6-Feb-92              0    6-Feb-92
Line Material Purch. & Supply                                 92.20 18-Jan-91            46   30-Jan-95
Insulators and Hardware               ICB/Goods           18.30 25-Mar-91            37   16-Jun-94
Bank Approval of Specs.                                 0.00 26-Jun-91              1   26-JuL-91
Bidding Period                                          0.00 29-Jul-91              3   29-Oct-91
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00 30-Oct-91              4    9-Mar-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00 10-Mar-92              1    8-Apr-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 11-May-92             0   11-may-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 11-May-92             18    7-Dec-93
Supply                                                  0.00 21-Dec-92             17   16-Jun-94
Conductor and Earthwire               ICB/Goods           66.70 24-Apr-91             30    7-Dec-93
Preparation of Specs                                    0.00 24-Apr-91              3   26-Jul-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                 0.00 29-Jul-91              1   27-Aug-91
Bidding Period                                          0.00 28-Aug-91              3    2-Dec-91
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00  3-Dec-91             4    8-Apr-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00  9-Apr-92              1    8-May-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 11-Jun-92             0   11-Jun-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 11-Jun-92             15    1-Oct-93
SuppLy                                                  0.00 18-Nov-92             12    7-Dec-93
Earthwire & Cond. Accessories         ICB/Goods            5.20 26-Jun-91             41   30-Jan-95
Bidding Period                                          0.00 30-Oct-91              3    5-Feb-92
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00  6-Feb-92             4   10-Jun-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00 11-Jun-92              1   13-Jul-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 13-Aug-92             0   13-Aug-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 13-Aug-92             15    7-Dec-93
Supply                                                  0.00  8-Dec-93             13   30-Jan-95
Special Tools and Equipment           LIB/Goods            2.00 18-Jan-91             23   22-Jan-93
Preparation of Specs.                                   0.00 18-Jan-91             3   23-Apr-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                 0.00 24-Apr-91              1   23-May-91
Bidding Period                                          0.00 24-May-91             3   27-Aug-91
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00 28-Aug-91             4    3-Jan-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00  6-Jan-92              1    5-Feb-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 10-Mar-92             0   10-Mar-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 10-Mar-92              7   15-Oct-92
Supply                                                  0.00 15-Sep-92             4   22-Jan-93
Tr. Lines Bawana-Bhiwani-Jaip                                    49.50 15-Oct-90            48   28-Dec-94
Towers and Erection (Purchase)           ICB/S&E              18.60 15-Oct-90            14    6-Jan-92
Prepare Specifications                                     0.00 15-Oct-90              4   21-Feb-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                    0.00 22-Feb-91              1   25-Mar-91
Bidding Period                                             0.00 26-Mar-91              3   26-Jun-91
Bid Evaluation                                             0.00 27-Jun-91              4   30-Oct-91
Bank Review of Evaluation                                  0.00 31-Oct-91              1    3-Dec-91
Sign Contract                                              0.00  7-Jan-92              0    7-Jan-92
Line Material Purch. & Supply                                30.90 22-Jan-91             35   11-Feb-94
Insulators and Hardware               ICB/Goods            3.50 25-Apr-91            31   11-Jan-94
Bank Approval of Specs.                                 0.00 30-JuL-91              1   28-Aug-91
Bidding Period                                          0.00 29-Aug-91             3    3-Dec-91
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00  4-Dec-91             4    9-Apr-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00 10-Apr-92              1   11-May-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 12-Jun-92             0   12-Jun-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 12-Jun-92             16    4-Nov-93
Supply                                                  0.00 22-Dec-92             12   11-Jan-94
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 1



-87-                        .                  Annex  3.4
Page 4 of 17
Schedule Name   Transmission Lines and Substations Phase 2
Responsible      Gulstone
As-of Date       4-Jun-90                  Schedule File : NHPC2A
Select filter   Procurement
Dependencies    Engineering (Optimize Line)
Total S  Start             Duratn  End
Task Name                                         Notes               (EAC)  Date               (Mths)  Date
Phase 2                                                            219.70  2-Jan-90             59    2-Mar-95
Trans. Lines Kishenpur - Moga                                   170.20  2-Jan-90            59    2-Mar-95
+ Towers and Erection (Purchase)            ICB/S&E             78.00 17-Dec-90             13    5-Feb-92
Line Material Purch. & Supply                                 92.20 18-Jan-91            46   30-Jan-95
+ Insulators and Hardware                ICB/Goods           18.30 25-Mar-91            37   16-Jun-94
+ Conductor and Earthwire                ICB/Goods          66.70 24-Apr-91             30    7-Dec-93
+ Earthwire & Cond. Accessories          ICB/Goods            5.2D 26-Jun-91            41   30-Jan-95
• Special Tools and Equipment           LIB/Goods             2.00 18-Jan-91            23   22-Jan-93
Tr. Lines Bawana-Bhiwani-Jaip                                    49.50 15-Oct-90            48   28-Dec-94
+ Towers and Erection (Purchase)            ICB/S&E             18.60 15-Oct-90            14    6-Jan-92
Line Material Purch. & Supply                                 30.90 22-Jan-91            35   11-Feb-94
+ Insulators and Hardware                ICB/Goods            3.50 25-Apr-91            31   11-Jan-94
+ Conductor and Earthwire                ICB/Goods          24.70 25-Apr-91             30    8-Dec-93
+ Earthwire & Cond. Accessories          ICR/Goods            1.90 27-Jun-91            30   11-Feb-94
• Special Tools and Equipment           LIB/Goods             0.80 22-Jan-91            23   25-Jan-93
Substations Phase 2                                       +         57.30 17-Dec-90             46   27-Dec-94
* Transformers and Reactors                    ICB/Goods           18.70 17-Dec-90             36   10-Feb-94
+ Switchgear & Inst. Trans.                    ICB/Goods           19.60 24-May-91             30   10-Jan-94
- Control & Relay Panels                       ICB/Goods            2.70 28-Aug-91             28   10-Feb-94
* PLCC Equipment                               ICB/Goods            2.50 28-Aug-91             28   10-Feb-94
+ Special Tools & Plant                        LIB/Goods            0.50 17-Dec-90             24   22-Jan-93
* Ins. & Bus Materials                         LCB/Goods            2.00 24-May-91             25   30-Jul-93
+ Substation Structures                        LCB/Goods            2.00 24-Apr-91             23   27-Apr-93
+ Cables                                       LCB/Goods            1.10 14-Jul-92             21   16-May-94
* Auxiliaries                                  LCB/Goods            1.90 24-May-91             26   31-Aug-93
+ Substation Erection                          LCB/Works            6.30 30-Oct-91             36   27-Dec-94
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 1



-88-
Annex  3.4
Page 5 of 17
Schedule Name   Transmission Lines and Substations Phase 2
Responsible      Gulstone
As-of Date       4-Jun-90                  Schedule File : NHPC2A
Select filter   Procurement
Dependencies    Engineering (Optimize Line)
Totat S  Start             Duratn  End
Task Name                                         Notes                (EAC)  Date              (Mths)  Date
Phase 2                                                            219.70  2-Jan-90             59    2-Mar-95
Trans. Lines Kishenpur - Moga                                   170.20  2-Jan-90             59    2-Mar-95
Towers and Erection (Purchase)            ICB/S&E             78.00 17-Dec-90             13    5-Feb-92
Prepare Specifications                                      0.00 17-Dec-90             3   22-Mar-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                     0.00 25-Mar-91             1   23-Apr-91
Bidding Period                                              0.00 24-Apr-91             3   26-Jul-91
Bid Evaluation                                              0.00 29-JuL-91             4    2-Dec-91
Bank Review of Evaluation                                   0.00  3-Dec-91             I    3-Jan-92
Sign Contract                                               0.00  6-Feb-92             0    6-Feb-92
Line Material Purch. & Supply                                 92.20 18-Jan-91            46   30-Jan-95
Insulators and Hardware               ICB/Goods           18.30 25-Mar-91             37   16-Jun-94
Bank Approval of Specs.                                 0.00 26-Jun-91              1   26-Jul-91
Bidding Period                                          0.00 29-Jul-91              3   29-Oct-91
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00 30-Oct-91              4    9-Mar-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00 10-Mar-92              1    8-Apr-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 11-May-92              0   11-May-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 11-May-92             18    7-Dec-93
Supply                                                  0.00 21-Dec-92             17   16-Jun-94
Conductor and Earthwire               ICB/Goods           66.70 24-Apr-91             30    7-Dec-93
Preparation of Specs                                    0.00 24-Apr-91              3   26-Jul-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                 0.00 29-Jul-91              1   27-Aug-91
Bidding Period                                          0.00 28-Aug-91              3    2-Dec-91
Bid Evatuation                                          0.00  3-Dec-91              4    8-Apr-92
Bank Review of EvaLuation                               0.00  9-Apr-92              1    8-May-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 11-Jun-92              0   11-Jun-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 11-Jun-92             15    1-Oct-93
Supply                                                  0.00 18-Nov-92             12    7-Dec-93
Earthwire & Cond. Accessories         ICB/Goods             5.20 26-Jun-91            41   30-Jan-95
Bidding Period                                          0.00 30-Oct-91              3    5-Feb-92
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00  6-Feb-92              4   10-Jun-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00 11-Jun-92              1   13-Jul-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 13-Aug-92              0   13-Aug-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 13-Aug-92             15    7-Dec-93
SuppLy                                                  0.00  8-Dec-93             13   30-Jan-95
Special Tools and Equipment           LIB/Goods             2.00 18-Jan-91            23   22-Jan-93
Preparation of Specs.                                   0.00 18-Jan-91              3   23-Apr-91
Bank Approvat of Specs.                                 0.00 24-Apr-91              1   23-May-91
Bidding Period                                          0.00 24-May-91              3   27-Aug-91
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00 28-Aug-91              4    3-Jan-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00  6-Jan-92              1    5-Feb-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 10-Mar-92              0   10-Mar-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 10-Mar-92              7   15-Oct-92
Supply                                                  0.00 15-Sep-92              4   22-Jan-93
Tr. Lines Bawana-Bhiwani-Jaip                                    49.50 15-Oct-90             48   28-Dec-94
Towers and Erection (Purchase)            ICB/S&E             18.60 15-Oct-90             14    6-Jan-92
Prepare Specifications                                     0.00 15-Oct-90              4   21-Feb-91
Bank Approvat of Specs.                                     0.00 22-Feb-91             1   25-Mar-91
Bidding Period                                              0.00 26-Mar-91             3   26-Jun-91
Bid Evaluation                                             0.00 27-Jun-91              4   30-Oct-91
Bank Review of Evaluation                                  0.00 31-Oct-91              1    3-Dec-91
Sign Contract                                              0.00  7-Jan-92              0    7-Jan-92
Line Material Purch. & Supply                                 30.90 22-Jan-91            35   11-Feb-94
Insulators and Hardware               ICB/Goods            3.50 25-Apr-91             31   11-Jan-94
Bank Approvat of Specs.                                 0.00 30-Jul-91              I   28-Aug-91
Bidding Period                                          0.00 29-Aug-91              3    3-Dec-91
Bid Evatuation                                          0.00  4-Dec-91              4    9-Apr-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00 10-Apr-92              1   11-May-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 12-Jun-92              0   12-Jun-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 12-Jun-92             16    4-Nov-93
SuppLy                                                  0.00 22-Dec-92             12   11-Jan-94
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 1



-89-                                             Annex  3.4
Page 6 of 17
Total S  Start             Duratn  End
Task Name                                         Notes                (EAC)  Date              (Mths)  Date
Conductor and Earthuire               ICB/Goods           24.70 25-Apr-91             30    8-Dec-93
Preparation of Specs                                    0.00 25-Apr-91              3   29-Jul-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                 0.00 30-Jul-91              1   28-Aug-91
Bidding Period                                          0.00 29-Aug-91              3    3-Dec-91
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00  4-Dec-91              4    9-Apr-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00 10-Apr-92              1   11-May-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 12-Jun-92              0   12-Jun-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 12-Jun-92             15    4-Oct-93
Supply                                                  0.00 19-Nov-92             12    8-Dec-93
Earthwire & Cond. Accessories         ICB/Goods             1.90 27-Jun-91            30   11-Feb-94
Bidding Period                                          0.00 31-Oct-91              3    6-Feb-92
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00  7-Feb-92              4   11-Jun-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00 12-Jun-92              1   14-Jul-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 14-Aug-92              0   14-Aug-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 14-Aug-92             15    8-Dec-93
Supply                                                  0.00 26-Jan-93             12   11-Feb-94
Special Tools and Equipment           LIB/Goods            0.80 22-Jan-91             23   25-Jan-93
Preparation of Specs.                                   0.00 22-Jan-91             3   24-Apr-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                 0.00 25-Apr-91              1   24-May-91
Bidding Period                                          0.00 28-May-91             3   28-Aug-91
Bid Evaluation                                          0.00 29-Aug-91             4    6-Jan-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                               0.00  7-Jan-92              1    6-Feb-92
Sign Contract                                           0.00 11-Mar-92             0   11-Mar-92
Manufacture                                             0.00 11-Mar-92              7   16-Oct-92
Supply                                                  0.00 16-Sep-92             4   25-Jan-93
Substations Phase 2                                       +         57.30 17-Dec-90             46   27-Dec-94
Transformers and Reactors                    ICB/Goods           18.70 17-Dec-90            36   10-Feb-94
Preparation of Specs.                                          0.00 17-Dec-90             3   22-Mar-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                        0.00 25-Mar-91             1   23-Apr-91
Bidding Period                                                 0.00 24-Apr-91             3   26-Jul-91
Bid Evaluation                                                 0.00 29-Jul-91             6    5-Feb-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                                      0.00  6-Feb-92             1    9-Mar-92
Manufacture                                                    0.00  9-Apr-92            16   31-Aug-93
Erect and Comnission.                                          0.00  1-Sep-93             5   10-Feb-94
Switchgear & Inst. Trans.                    ICB/Goods           19.60 24-May-91            30   10-Jan-94
Preparation of Specs.                                          0.00 24-May-91             3   27-Aug-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                        0.00 28-Aug-91             1   27-Sep-91
Bidding Period                                                 0.00 30-Sep-91             3    3-Jan-92
Bid Evaluation                                                 0.00  6-Jan-92             4    8-May-92
Bank Review of EvaLuation                                      0.00 11-May-92             1   10-Jun-92
Sign Contract                                                  0.00 14-Jul-92             0   14-Jul-92
Manufacture                                                    0.00 14-Jul-92            14    1-Oct-93
Supply                                                         0.00  4-Oct-93             3   10-Jan-94
Control & Relay Panels                       ICB/Goods            2.70 28-Aug-91            28   10-Feb-94
Preparation of Specs.                                          0.00 28-Aug-91             3    2-Dec-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                        0.00  3-Dec-91             1    3-Jan-92
Bidding Period                                                 0.00  6-Jan-92             3    8-Apr-92
Bid Evaluation                                                 0.00  9-Apr-92             4   12-Aug-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                                      0.00 13-Aug-92             1   14-Sep-92
Sign Contract                                                  0.00 16-Oct-92             0   16-Oct-92
Manufacture                                                    0.00 16-Oct-92            10   31-Aug-93
Supply                                                         0.00  1-Sep-93             5   10-Feb-94
PLCC Equipment                               ICB/Goods            2.50 28-Aug-91            28   10-Feb-94
Preparation of Specs.                                          0.00 28-Aug-91             3    2-Dec-91
Bank Approval of Specs.                                        0.00  3-Dec-91             1    3-Jan-92
Bidding Period                                                 0.00  6-Jan-92             3    8-Apr-92
Bid Evaluation                                                 0.00  9-Apr-92             4   12-Aug-92
Bank Review of Evaluation                                      0.00 13-Aug-92             1   14-Sep-92
Sign Contract                                                  0.00 16-Oct-92             0   16-Oct-92
Manufacture                                                    0.00 16-Oct-92            12    3-Nov-93
Supply                                                         0.00  4-Nov-93             3   10-Feb-94
Special Tools & Plant                        LIS/Goods            0O.5  17-Dec-90           24   22-Jan-93
Preparation of Specs.                                          0.00 17-Dec-90             3   22-mar-91
Dank Approval of Specs.                                        0.00 25-Mar-91             I   23-Apr-91
Bidding Period                                                 0.00 24-Apr-91             3   26-Jul-91
Bid Evaluation                                                 0.00 29-JuL-91             4    2-Dec-91
Bank Review of Evaluation                                      0.00  3-Dec-91             1    3-Jan-92
Sign Contract                                                  0.00  6-Feb-92             0    6-Feb-92
Manufacture                                                    0.00  6-Feb-92             8   15-Oct-92
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 2






-91-                                              Annex  3.4
Page 8 of 17
Schedule Name   Transmission Lines & Substations Phase 3
Responsible      Gulstone
As-of Date       4-Jun-90                  Schedule File : NHPCPH3
Select filter   procurement
Total S  Start             Duratn  End
Task Name                                         Notes               (EAC)  Date               (Mths)  Date
Phase 3                                                   +        341.20  2-Jan-90             93.9 25-Mar-98
Trans Lines Bawana-Abdullapur                                    59.00  2-Jan-90             74   25-Jun-96
+ Towers and Erection                       ICB/S&E             25.50  1-Nov-91             14   26-Jan-93
Line Material Purch. & Supply                                 33.50  8-Jan-92            40   10-JuL-95
+ Insulators and Hardware                ICB/Goods            4.50 12-Mar-92            37    7-Jun-95
+ Conductor and Earthwire                ICS/Goods           26.10 15-Jun-92            35   10-Jul-95
+ Earthwire & Cond. Accessories          [CB/Goods            2.20 17-Aug-92            33   10-Jul-95
* Special Tools and Equipment           L1B/Goods             0.70  8-Jan-92            27   18-May-94
Substations Bawana-Abdullapur                          +         23.70  3-Aug-92            43    9-May-96
* Transformers and Reactors                 ICS/Goods            7.10  3-Aug-92            37   30-Oct-95
+ Switchgear & Inst. Trans.                 ICS/Goods            7.30 12-Jan-93            31   27-Sep-95
+ Control & Relay Panels                    ICB/Goods            1.10 18-May-93            28   30-Oct-95
+ PLCC Equipment                            ICB/Goods            0.70 21-Jul-93            27    1-Dec-95
+ Special Tools & Plant                     LIB/Goods            0.20  3-Aug-92            23    8-Aug-94
+ Ins. & Bus Materials                      LCB/Goods            0.60  2-Sep-92            24   11-Oct-94
* Substation Structures                     LCB/Goods            1.10 12-Feb-93            19   11-Oct-94
+ Cables                                    LCB/Goods            0.50 25-Oct-93            22   27-Sep-95
+ Auxiliaries                               LCB/Goods            2.50 20-Aug-93            24   27-Sep-95
4 Substation Erection                       LCB/Works            2.60 17-Mar-93            36    9-May-96
Trans Lines Abdull.- N Jhakri                          +         67.90  2-Jan-90            91.2 26-Dec-97
+ Towers and Erection (Purchase)            ICB/S&E             35.60  3-Jun-91             14   19-Aug-92
Line Material Purch. & SuppLy                                32.30  4-Mar-93             40   30-Aug-96
+ Insulators and Hardware                ICB/Goods           9.00  8-Jul-93             36   30-Aug-96
* Conductor and Earthwire                ICB/Goods           21.00  9-Aug-93            35   30-Aug-96
+ Earthwire & Cond. Accessories          ICS/Goods            1.80  9-Aug-93            35   30-Aug-96
+ Special Tools and Equipment           L[B/Goods             0.50  4-Mar-93            24   10-Apr-95
Substations Abdull.- N Jhakri                          +          3.60 29-Apr-94            40   29-Oct-97
* Switchgear & Inst. Trans.                 ICB/Goods            1.90  1-Jul-94            31   21-Mar-97
+ Control & Relay Panels           .        ICB/Goods            0.30  7-Nov-94            28   22-Apr-97
+ PLCC Equipment                            ICB/Goods            0.40 12-Jan-95            28   24-Jun-97
* Ins. & Bus Materials                      LCB/Goods            0.20 29-Apr-94            22    3-Apr-96
+ Substation Structures                     LCB/Goods            0.20  1-Jul-94             19    4-Mar-96
+ Cables                                    LCB/Goods            0.10 18-Apr-95            23   22-Apr-97
+ Substation Erection                       LCB/Works            0.50  7-Nov-94            34   29-Oct-97
Trans Lines N Jh-Koldam-Hissar                         +        167.10  3-Aug-92            64.3 25-Mar-98
+ Towers and Erection (Purchase)            ICB/S&E             81.50  3-Aug-92             14   22-Oct-93
Line Material Purch. & Supply                                85.60  2-Aug-93             50   18-Dec-97
+ Insulators and Hardware                [CB/Goods           21.20  2-Aug-93            50   18-Dec-97
+ Conductor and Earthwire                ICS/Goods           57.60  2-Aug-93            50   18-Dec-97
+ Earthwire & Cond. Accessories          ICS/Goods            4.80  2-Aug-93            50   18-Dec-97
+ Special Tools and Equipment           L[B/Goods             2.00  2-Aug-93            24    7-Sep-95
Substations N Jh-Koldam-Hissar                         +         19.90  1-Apr-94            44    9-Feb-98
+ Transformers and Reactors                 [CB/Goods            5.40  1-Apr-94            38   29-Jul-97
- Switchgear & Inst. Trans.                 ICB/Goods            7.50  6-Jul-94            38   31-Oct-97
+ Controt & Relay Panels                    ICS/Goods            1.20 13-Dec-94            28   27-May-97
+ PLCC Equipment                            ICB/Goods            1.60  9-Nov-94            28   24-Apr-97
+ Special Toots & Plant                     L[B/Goods            0.10  1-Apr-94            25    7-Jun-96
+ Ins. & Bus Materials                      LCB/Goods            0.80  5-Aug-94            24   11-Sep-96
+ Substation Structures                     LCB/Goods            0.70  5-Aug-94             18    6-Mar-96
+ Cables                                    LCB/Goods            0.40 25-Jul-95            23   29-Jul-97
+ Substation Erection                       LCB/Works            2.20 17-Jan-95            35    9-Feb-98
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 1






-93-                                              Annex  3.4
Page 10 of 17
Total S  Start            Duratn  End
Task Name                                        Notes              (EAC)  Date              (Mths)  Date
Control & Relay Panels                  ICS/Goods            1.10 18-May-93           28   30-Oct-95
Preparation of Specs.                                    0.00 18-May-93             3   19-Aug-93
Bank Approval of Specs.                                  0.00 20-Aug-93             1   21-Sep-93
Bidding Period                                           0.00 22-Sep-93             3   28-Dec-93
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00 29-Dec-93             4    4-May-94
Bank Review of Evaluation                                0.00  5-May-94             1    6-Jun-94
Sign Contract                                            0.00  8-Jul-94             0    8-Jul-94
Manufacture                                              0.00  8-Jul-94            12   26-Jul-95
Supply                                                   0.00 27-Jul-95             3   30-Oct-95
PLCC Equipment                          ICB/Goods            0.70 21-Jul-93           27    1-Dec-95
Preparation of Specs.                                    0.00 21-Jul-93             3   22-Oct-93
Bank Approval of Specs.                                  0.00 25-oct-93             1   24-Nov-93
Bidding Period                                           0.00 26-bov-93             3    3-Mar-94
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00  4-Mar-94             4    7-Jul-94
Bank Review of Evaluation                                0.00  8-Jul-94             1    8-Aug-94
Sign Contract                                            0.00  9-Sep-94             0    9-Sep-94
Manufacture                                              0.00  9-Sep-94            11   25-Aug-95
Supply                                                   0.00 28-Aug-95             3    1-Dec-95
Special Tools & Plant                   LIB/Goods           0.20  3-Aug-92            23    8-Aug-94
Preparation of Specs.                                    0.00  3-Aug-92             3    4-Nov-92
Bank Approval of Specs.                                  0.00  5-Nov-92             1    8-Dec-92
Bidding Period                                           0.00  9-Dec-92             3   16-Mar-93
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00 17-Mar-93             4   20-Jul-93
Bank Review of EvaLuation                                0.00 21-JuL-93             1   19-Aug-93
Sign Contract                                            0.00 22-Sep-93             1   22-Oct-93
Manufacture                                              0.00 25-oct-93             7    6-Jun-94
Supply                                                   0.00  7-Jun-94             2    8-Aug-94
Ins. & Bus Materials                    LCB/Goods           0.60  2-Sep-92            24   11-Oct-94
Preparation of Specs.                                    0.00  2-Sep-92             3    8-Dec-92
Bidding Period                                           0.00  9-Dec-92             3   16-Mar-93
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00 17-Mar-93             3   17-Jun-93
Sign Contract                                            0.00 21-Jul-93             I   19-Aug-93
Bank Post Review of EvaLuation                           0.00 20-Aug-93             1   21-Sep-93
Manufacture                                              0.00 22-Sep-93             9    7-Jul-94
Supply                                                   0.00  8-Jul-94             3   11-Oct-94
Substation Structures                   LCS/Goods            1.10 12-Feb-93           19   11-Oct-94
Bidding Period                                           0.00 12-Feb-93             3   17-May-93
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00 18-May-93             3   19-Aug-93
Sign Contract                                            0.00 20-Aug-93             1   21-Sep-93
Bank Post Review of Evaluation                           0.00 22-Sep-93             1   22-Oct-93
Manufacture                                              0.00 22-Sep-93             9    7-Jul-94
SuppLy                                                   0.00  8-Jul-94             3   11-Oct-94
Cables                                  LCB/Goods           0.50 25-Oct-93            22   27-Sep-95
Preparation of Specs                                     0.00 25-Oct-93             3   31-Jan-94
Bidding Period                                           0.00  1-Feb-94             3    4-May-94
Bid EvaLuation                                           0.00  5-May-94             3    8-Aug-94
Sign Contract                                            0.00  9-Sep-94             1   11-Oct-94
Bank Post Review of Evaluation                           0.00 12-Oct-94             1   10-Nov-94
Manufacture                                              0.00 12-Oct-94             8   23-Jun-95
Supply                                                   0.00 26-Jun-95             3   27-Sep-95
Auxiliaries                             LCB/Goods           2.50 20-Aug-93            24   27-Sep-95
Preparation of Specs.                                    0.00 20-Aug-93             3   24-Nov-93
Bidding Period                                           0.00 26-Nov-93             3    3-Mar-94
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00  4-Mar-94             4    7-Jul-94
Sign Contract                                            0.00  9-Aug-94             1    8-Sep-94
Bank Post Review of Evaluation                           0.00  9-Sep-94             1   11-Oct-94
Manufacture                                              0.00 12-Oct-94             8   23-Jun-95
Supply                                                   0.00 26-Jun-95             3   27-Sep-95
Substation Erection                     LCB/Works           2.60 17-Mar-93            36    9-May-96
Preparation of Specs.                                    0.00 17-Mar-93             3   17-Jun-93
Bank Approval of Specs.                                  0.00 18-Jun-93             1   20-Jul-93
Bidding Period                                           0.00 21-Jul-93             3   22-Oct-93
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00 25-oct-93             4    3-Mar-94
Bank Review of Evaluation                                0.00  4-Mar-94             1    4-Apr-94
Sign Contract                                            0.00  5-May-94             0    5-May-94
Erect Substation                                         0.00  5-May-94            23    9-May-96
Trans Lines Abdull.- N Jhakri                        +        67.90  2-Jan-90            91.2 26-Dec-97
Towers and Erection (Purchase)          ICB/S&E            35.60  3-Jun-91            14   19-Aug-92
Prepare Specifications                                   0.00  3-Jun-91             4    4-Oct-91
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 2






Annex 3.4
Page 12 of 17
Total S  Start            Duratn  End
Task Name                                        Notes              (EAC)  Date              (Mths)  Date
Bidding Period                                           0.00  3-Aug-94             3    4-Nov-94
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00  7-Nov-94             3   13-Feb-95
Sign Contract                                            0.00 17-Mar-95             0   17-Mar-95
Bank Post Review of Evaluation                           0.00 17-Mar-95             1   17-Apr-95
Manufacture                                               0.00 18-Apr-95            8   28-Dec-95
SuppLy                                                   0.00 29-Dec-95             3    3-Apr-96
Substation Structures                   LCB/Goods            0.20  1-JuL-94            19    4-Mar-96
Bidding Period                                           0.00  1-Jul-94             3    4-oct-94
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00  5-Oct-94             4   13-Feb-95
Sign Contract                                            0.00 14-Feb-95             1   16-Mar-95
Bank Post Review of Evaluation                           0.00 17-mar-95             1   17-Apr-95
Manufacture                                               0.00 17-mar-95            8   27-Nov-95
Supply                                                    0.00 28-Nov-95            3    4-Mar-96
Cables                                  LCB/Goods            0.10 18-Apr-95           23   22-Apr-97
Preparation of Specs                                      0.00 18-Apr-95            3   20-Jut-95
Bidding Period                                            0.00 21-JuL-95            3   24-Oct-95
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00 25-Oct-95             4    4-Mar-96
Sign Contract                                            0.00  4-Apr-96             1    3-May-96
Bank Post Review of EvaLuation                           0.00  6-May-96             1    5-Jun-96
Manufacture                                               0.00  6-May-96            8   16-Jan-97
Supply                                                   0.00 17-Jan-97             3   22-Apr-97
Substation Erection                     LCB/Works            0.50  7-Nov-94           34   29-Oct-97
Preparation of Specs.                                    0.00  7-Nov-94             3   13-Feb-95
Bidding Period                                           0.00 14-Feb-95             3   17-May-95
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00 18-May-95             4   21-Sep-95
Sign Contract                                            0.00 25-Oct-95             0   25-Oct-95
Bank Post Review of Evaluation                           0.00 25-Oct-95             1   27-Nov-95
Erect Substation                                         0.00 25-Oct-95            23   29-Oct-97
Trans Lines N Jh-Koldam-Hissar                       +        167.10  3-Aug-92           64.3 25-Mar-98
Towers and Erection (Purchase)          ICB/S&E            81.50  3-Aug-92            14   22-Oct-93
Prepare Specifications                                   0.00  3-Aug-92             4    8-Dec-92
Bank Approval of Specs.                                  0.00  9-Dec-92             I   11-Jan-93
Bidding Period                                           0.00 12-Jan-93             3   15-Apr-93
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00 16-Apr-93             4   19-Aug-93
Bank Review of Evaluation                                0.00 20-Aug-93             1   21-Sep-93
Sign Contract                                            0.00 25-Oct-93             0   25-Oct-93
Line Material Purch. & Supply  .                            85.60  2-Aug-93           50   18-Dec-97
Insulators and Hardware              ICB/Goods          21.20  2-Aug-93            50   18-Dec-97
Preparation of Specs.                                 0.00  2-Aug-93             3    3-Nov-93
Bank Approval of Specs.                               0.00  4-Nov-93             1    7-Dec-93
Bidding Period                                        0.00  8-Dec-93             3   15-mar-94
Bid Evaluation                                        0.00 16-Mar-94             4   19-Jul-94
Bank Review of Evaluation                             0.00 20-Jut-94             1   18-Aug-94
Sign Contract                                         0.00 21-Sep-94             0   21-Sep-94
Manufacture                                           0.00 21-Sep-94            20   21-Jun-96
Supply                                                0.00 24-Jun-96            17   18-Dec-97
Conductor and Earthwire              ICB/Goods          57.60  2-Aug-93            50   18-Dec-97
Preparation of Specs                                  0.00  2-Aug-93             3    3-Nov-93
Bank Approval of Specs.                               0.00  4-Nov-93             1    7-Dec-93
Bidding Period                                        0.00  8-Dec-93             3   15-Mar-94
Bid Evaluation                                        0.00 16-Mar-94             4   19-Jul-94
Bank Review of Evatuation                             0.00 20-Jul-94             1   18-Aug-94
Sign Contract                                         0.00 21-Sep-94             0   21-Sep-94
Manufacture                                           0.00 21-sep-94            20   21-Jun-96
Supply                                                0.00 24-Jun-96            17   18-Dec-97
Earthwire & Cond. Accessories        ICS/Goods           4.80  2-Aug-93            50   18-Dec-97
Bidding Period                                        0.00  8-Dec-93             3   15-Mar-94
Bid Evaluation                                        0.00 16-mar-94             4   19-Jut-94
Bank Review of Evaluation                             0.00 20-Jul-94             I   18-Aug-94
Sign Contract                                         0.00 21-Sep-94             0   21-Sep-94
Manufacture                                           0.00 21-Sep-94            20   21-Jun-96
Supply                                                0.00 24-Jun-96            17   18-Dec-97
Special Tools and Equipment          LIB/Goods           2.00  2-Aug-93            24    7-Sep-95
Preparation of Specs.                                 0.00  2-Aug-93             3    3-Nov-93
Bank Approval of Specs.                               0.00  4-Nov-93             1    7-Dec-93
Bidding Period                                        0.00  8-Dec-93             3   15-Mar-94
Bid Evaluation                                        0.00 16-Mar-94             4   19-Jul-94
Bank Review of Evaluation                             0.00 20-Jul-94             1   18-Aug-94
Sign Contract                                         0.00 21-Sep-94             0   21-Sep-94
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 4






Annex  3.4
Page 14 of 17
Total S  Start            Duratn  End
Task Name                                       Notes               (EAC) Date               (Mths)  Date
SuppLy                                                   0.00 25-Apr-97             3   29-JuL-97
Substation Erection                     LCB/Works            2.20 17-Jan-95           35    9-Feb-98
Preparation of Specs.                                    0.00 17-Jan-95             3   19-Apr-95
Bank Approval of Specs.                                  0.00 20-Apr-95             1   19-May-95
Bidding Period                                           0.00 22-May-95             3   23-Aug-95
Bid Evaluation                                           0.00 24-Aug-95             3   29-Nov-95
Bank Review of Evaluation                                0.00 30-Nov-95             1    2-Jan-96
Sign Contract                                            0.00  5-Feb-96             0    5-Feb-96
Erect Substation                                         0.00  5-Feb-96            23    9-Feb-98
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 6






-99-
Annex 3.4
Page 16 of 17
Schedule Name : Load Dispatch System
Responsible     Gulstone
As-of Date       1-Jun-89  9:00am        Schedule File   NREB
Select filter   Procurement
Total S  Start            Duratn  End
Task Name                                       Notes               (EAC)  Date              (Mths)  Date
Load Dispatch system                                             130.00 31-Dec-91            70.2 26-Feb-98
Staff Training                             TRN                  1.70  1-Jun-92           35   23-Jun-95
Consulting Services                        CON                  3.00 31-Dec-91           70.2 26-Feb-98
Evaluation of Proposals                                      0.00 12-Mar-92            3   12-Jun-92
Buildings Land and Services                LCB/Works           24.50 17-Aug-92           24   22-Sep-94
Energy Management Systems                  ICB/S&E             55.60 17-Aug-92            16   12-Jan-94
Computer Network                           ICB/S&E              4.40 17-Aug-92           23   22-Aug-94
Prepare Specifications                                       0.00 17-Aug-92            4   22-Dec-92
Send Documents to Bank                                       0.00 23-Dec-92            0   23-Dec-92
Bank Review of Bid Documents                                 0.00 23-Dec-92            1   26-Jan-93
Bidding Period                                               0.00 27-Jan-93            3   29-Apr-93
Bid Evaluation                                               0.00 30-Apr-93            3    3-Aug-93
Bank Review of Evaluation                                   0.00  4-Aug-93             1    2-Sep-93
Award Contract                                               0.00  3-Sep-93            2    5-Nov-93
Supply                                                       0.00  8-Nov-93            9   22-Aug-94
Remote TerminaL Units                      IC8/Goods            9.50 17-Aug-92           25   25-Oct-94
Prepare Specifications                                       0.00 17-Aug-92            6   26-Feb-93
Send Documents to Bank                                       0.00  1-Mar-93            0    1-Mar-93
Bank Review of Bid Documents                                 0.00  1-Mar-93            1   30-Mar-93
Bidding Period                                               0.00 31-Mar-93            3    1-Jul-93
Bid Evaluation                                               0.00  2-Jul-93            3    5-Oct-93
Bank Review of Evaluation                                   0.00  6-Oct-93             1    5-Nov-93
Award Contract                                               0.00  8-Nov-93            2   12-Jan-94
Supply                                                       0.00 13-Jan-94            9   25-Oct-94
Transducers and Relays                     ICB/Goods            3.10 17-Aug-92           23   22-Aug-94
Prepare Specifications                                       0.00 17-Aug-92            4   22-Dec-92
Send Bid Documents to Bank                                   0.00 23-Dec-92            0   23-Dec-92
Bank Review of Bid Documnents                                0.00 23-Dec-92            1   26-Jan-93
Bidding Period                                               0.00 27-Jan-93            3   29-Apr-93
Bid Evaluation                                              0.00 30-Apr-93             3    3-Aug-93
Bank Review of Evaluation                                    0.00  4-Aug-93            1    2-Sep-93
Award Contract                                               0.00  3-Sep-93            2    5-Nov-93
Supply                                                       0.00  8-Nov-93            9   22-Aug-94
Automatic Generation Control               ICB/S&E              2.50 17-Aug-92           23   22-Aug-94
Prepare Specifications                                       0.00 17-Aug-92            4   22-Dec-92
Send Bid Documents to Bank                                   0.00 23-Dec-92            0   23-Dec-92
Bank Review of Bid Documents                                 0.00 23-Dec-92            1   26-Jan-93
Bidding Period                                               0.00 27-Jan-93            3   29-Apr-93
Bid Evaluation                                               0.00 30-Apr-93            3    3-Aug-93
Bank Review of Evaluation                                   0.00  4-Aug-93             1    2-Sep-93
Award Contract                                               0.00  3-Sep-93            2    5-Nov-93
Supply                                                       0.00  8-Nov-93            9   22-Aug-94
Cofmmnications                             ICB/S&E             18.10 17-Aug-92           25   25-Oct-94
Prepare Specifications                                       0.00 17-Aug-92            6   26-Feb-93
Send Bid Documents to Bank                                   0.00  1-mar-93            0    1-Mar-93
Bank Review of Bid DocumentS                                 0.00  1-Mar-93            1   30-Mar-93
Bidding Period                                               0.00 31-Mar-93            3    1-Jul-93
Bid Evaluation                                               0.00  2-Jul-93            3    5-Oct-93
Bank Review of Evaluation                                    0.00  6-Oct-93            1    5-Nov-93
Award Contract                                               0.00  8-Nov-93            2   12-Jan-94
Supply                                                       0.00 13-Jan-94            9   25-oct-94
Information Transmission Eqpt.             LCB/Goods            3.90 17-Aug-92           21   20-Jun-94
Prepare Specifications                                       0.00 17-Aug-92            4   22-Dec-92
Bidding Period                                               0.00 23-Dec-92            3   30-Mar-93
Bid Evaluation                                               0.00 31-Mar-93            3    1-Jul-93
Award Contract                                               0.00  2-Jul-93            2    2-Sep-93
Bank Post Review of Evaluation                               0.00  3-Sep-93            1    5-Oct-93
Supply                                                       0.00  3-Sep-93            9   20-Jun-94
Power Supply Equipment                     LCB/Goods            3.70  4-Aug-93           21    7-Jun-95
Prepare Specifications                                       0.00  4-Aug-93            4    9-Dec-93
Bidding Period                                               0.00 10-Dec-93            3   17-Mar-94
TIME LINE Gantt Chart Report, Strip 1, Page 1






NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Disbursement Profile Comparison
120
100
80
60                                                                         C
40
20
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11 12 13 14 15 16 17
SEMESTERS
00
(D (D
Standard Profile   i Project Profile                    X
0 .






-103-                       Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Review of System Studies
Central Electricity Authority (CEA)
Review of EHV Transmission Projects (1990-1995)
Complementary Report
by F. Iliceto
(Consultant to the World Bank)
1. Preamble
This  report is a complement to the writer's report on  same
subject, dated January 10, 1989.
In  February  1989,  the writer made a mission in India  for
review  of  Power  Sector  Efficiency.  This  mission  gave   the
opportunity  to  discuss  the results of the  additional  studies
recommended  in  the January 10,  1989  report,  that  have  been
carried out for the various projects by CEA, NTPC and NHPC. Some
additional  technical aspects of the project,  that could not  be
covered in the October 1988 mission, have also been reviewed.
The  engineers  of CEA,  NTPC and NHPC have expressed  their
agreement with the planning and design changes recommended by the
writer, aiming to improve transmission reliability and reduce the
costs.  The engineers have informed that they would have  applied
all  these  changes if they had been advised two  years  ago.  At
present, they will not be able to apply some of the changes, even
if  alternative solutions are technically superior,  owing to the
committements  that  have been made,  and to  the  complexity  of
approval procedures of transmission projects in India.
CEA  engineers  have informed that they have reviewed  their
planning  criteria  of use of HVDC links,  in  keeping  with  the
concern expressed by the wrlter in the previous reports.
During  the  recent  mission,    the  writer  has  drawn  the
attention  of CEA,  NTPC and NHPC on the very high rate of  major
failures   of  the  800  kV  transformers  and  autotransformers,
reported also in the recent years by the power utilities
operating 800 kV networks.  This problem should not be  neglected
in the comparison of the 800 kV  AC versus 420 kV AC alternatives
for new transmission projects.
2. Oneration   eYpertence   of   800   kV   transformers   and
autotransforMers
A  rate  of failure of 800 kV station equipment much  higher
than  usual  for  the   voltage levels up to  500  kV,  has  been
reported  for many years. 800 kV networks have been in  operation
in  the U.S.A. (American Electric Power) from 1969,  however  the
problem  of transformer/autotransformer reliability is  far  from
being solved as per 1989.
A Task Force on evaluation of 800 kV transformer performance
has  been  formed  by the Power Utilities  that  operate  800  kV






-105-
Annex 3.6
Page 3 of 6
will make avallable the required bay and CB for the Dehar-Koldam
tie-line.  Cost  of  new line terminal  thus   obtained  will  be
modest,  because  part  of equipment  (CB,  CTs,  isolators)  are
available  at Dehar.  Details of proposed rearrangement have been
explained orally to NHPC engineers. These details must be checked
in  the  field,  because  the available drawings  in  Delhi  were
uncomplete.
The  integrated use of the existing S/C lines  Dehar-Shiwani
and Dehar-NCR station with the D/C lines planned by the NHPC,
via   the  Dehar  -  Koldam  tie-line,  could  enable  a   staged
construction of the D/C lines, if the generation capacity at
Koldam, N. Jhakri and up-stream HPPs will be added in stages, in
several years.
The writer had recommended to consider also an alternative
scheme for integration into the 420 kV network of the Koldam and
N.   Jhakri  power  plants,   consisting  of  N.0  3  S/C  lines,
interconnected, instead of the proposed N.0 2 D/C lines. The NHPC
has informed that now it is too late for this change, because the
D/C line routes have been approved.
In the engineering stage, due attention must be given to the
operational  problems  of the long shunt  compensated  0/C  420kV
lines, in particular to the following aspects:
(i)   Electromagnetic induction on an open-ended   (de-energized)
circuit or open-ended phase conductor, from energized
conductors; adverse reflection on high-speed reclosure.
(ii)  Possible  simultaneous  outage  of the two circuits due  to
lightnings  and other causes (operation statistics  of  D/C
lines show that this may occur in up to 60% of cases).
(lii) At  the occurrence of a 1-phase-to-ground fault in both the
circuits, assure that the distance protection relays detect
correctly the faults (even if these affect different phases
of the two circuits) and perform the single-pole high-speed
reclosure.
(iv)  Calculate and  specify correctly, the making  and  breaking
capacity of line earthing isolators, in relation with
induced currents.
(v)   Consider  addition  of suitable neutral reactor to  420  kV
shunt  reactors  connected  to  D/C  line  terminal,  where
appropriate.
(vi)  Study   the   maintenance  possibilities  consistent   with
regulations in India (hot-line; off-voltage In one circuit,
with the other energized).
The NHPC has considered two alternative terminal stations at
the  receiving  end  of the D/C  line  from  Koldam:  Hissar  and
Bhiwani;  they  have informed their preference for  Hissar.  This






-107-
Annex 3.6
Page 5 of 6
be definitely convenient, because it will drastically
reduce  the power subject to double transformation  800/420
kV  and 420/220 kV, thus enabling reduction of  investment,
of active and reactive power losses, of voltage drop, of
maintenance and repair costs.
(vil) The  NHPC has agreed to route the 800 kV parallel lines  on
adequately  separated  rights of ways (separation  of  some
km), for security.
The  engineers  of NHPC and CEA are in  agreement  that  the
above listed changes will provide technical-economical benefits.
However  they deem that it is now too late for the change of  the
D/C  420  kV  Moga-Hissar  line into a S/C 800  kV  line  (to  be
operated  initially  at 420 kV), because the D/C 420 kV  line  is
committed. Although line construction has not yet started, NHPC
informs that orders have been placed with contractors. NHPC deems
that  the  change,  at  this stage of  project,  would  cause  an
important  delay, because they do not have the design of the  800
kV  line  and  they  do not intend to use  a  design  at  present
available by others, in India or abroad.
It  should be noted that the main change is associated  with
the  towers, because it would be acceptable for the 800  kV  line
Moga-Hissar  to  apply quad Moose conductors (design  adopted  by
Uttar Pradesh SEB), that requires the same amount of cables as
the D/C twin bundle Moose 420 kV line. Line route and profile  of
420  kV  line could be used for the 800 kV line. Also  the  tower
spotting,  if available, could be quickly adapted  by  increasing
the  clearance to ground and by maintaining generally the  towers
at same locations.
In conclusion, the change of the Moga-Hissar D/C 420 kV line
into an 800 kV line (to be paralleled in future by the 2nd 800 kV
line)  would increase markedly the benefit and  justification  of
the  800  kV transmission alternative. The writer  however  deems
that, although the change is advantageous, it should not be
considered   mandatory   for  the  acceptance  of  the   800   kV
transmission project in J. and K.
The writer recommends that the planning of the 420 kV lines
terminating  at  Kishenpur should be reviewed, with  the  aim  to
reduce the number of circuits on same valley and to increase  the
utilization of the circuits to be built, in particular of the
future  800 kV lines. Keeping in mind the  committements  already
made for the 420 kV lines connecting the Kistwar and Ratle  HPPs,
only  the  less important changes can be considered  at  present.
These  might  Include the connection of the Sawalkot HPP  to  the
lines  to  be used for the future Bursar and Pakhal Dul  HPPs.  A
study  of these  possible Integrations and savings could  not  be
made  during the recent mission in Delhi, because  detailed  maps
were   not  available  and also time was  not  available.  It  is
recommended  that  in-depth  Investigations  be  made,  lncluding






-109-
Annex 3.7
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Notes from Satellite Feasibility Study
Facilities
(i)   Computer - computer link
(ii)  Voice
(iii) Teleprinter
(iv)  Facsimile
(v)   Telemetering
(vi)  Audio teleconference
(vii) Interlink and P&T and private exchanges
Sites to be linked to Delhi - 10
Number of Circuits - 4
Data rate - under 9.6 kb/sec (short term) but design capability of 64 kb/sec.
The report includes a quick detailed design study.
Alternatives assessed:
(i)   Lease satellite facilities from P&T (with two variations)
(ii) Satellite based private network (with three variations)
The cash flow analysis show the present worth of annual charges
over a 20-year period of the private network alternatives are roughly 1/2
of one leased alternative and 1/3 of the other.
The report says that a turnkey network could be made operational
in under two years from the contract date which the P&T alternative could
take as much as four years.
The P&T network deals largely with analogue traffic and uses a lot
of analogue equipment, whereas a lot of the NHPC traffic will be eventually
displaced.  Even for voice, quality is better with digital system.
Modifications will be easier if the system is owned by NHPC.
The arguments for the privately owned system seem convincing;
therefore complete independence from NTPC are less so.  The report suggests
that the ideal solution would be to make the NHPC and NTPC main hub
stations back up to each other.






Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 6
3.       On a normal power system, the installed generating capacity is
substantially above (at least, say 25Z) the peak load to allow for planned
maintenance on some generating units, forced (unforeseen) outages on
others, and an operating margin for frequency control and other
contingencies.  On all five systems in India, inadequate installed capacity
coupled with unit breakdowns, hydro energy limitations and maintenance
requirements result in a supply constrained situation whereby load shedding
must be conducted on almost a continuous basis using frequency as the
controlling monitor.  This type of operation is extremely severe on
generating units (excessive wear and stress due to frequency swings) and
transmission equipment (insulation damage due to voltage surges) because of
the rapidly changing frequency and voltage which would normally be
controlled within narrow bands by automatic control equipment using the
available margin of spare generating capacity.
4.       The Indian capacity shortage is aggravated by the rather lengthy
planned unit outages, as evident from the recorded outage times for thermal
units that were returned to service during February 1989:
Length of Thermal Unit Outages
Unit                         MW            Outages - Months
Rihand STPS-1                   500                   10
Korba STPS-1                    210                    5
Koradi-3                        120                   11
Chandrapur-4                    210                    5
Talcher-5                       110                    7
5.       The overall plant utilization on the five systems averages roughly
50% based on records by. CEA of the plant load factors for February 1989, as
summarized below:
February 1989 Plant Utilization
Region                Plant Type           Monthly Plant Factor
(X)
Northern               Thermal                      66.6
Hydro                       37.4
Western                Thermal                      63.0
Hydro                       43.9
Southern               Thermal                      63.0
Hydro                       34.8
Eastern                Thermal                      40.5
Hydro                       29.6
North-Eastern          Thermal                      26.1
Hydro                       37.7
All-India              Thermal                      61.8
Nuclear                     33.6
Hydro                       36.6
Total System                                        49.4
Note:  Excludes steam units under 20 MW, gas turbines and
764 MW of damaged steam capacity; adding these
would lower the total system plant factor.






-113-                        Annex 3.8
Page 4 of 6
Expected Northern Region System in 1995
Number of   Number of
Installed Capacity - MW          Generating  Generating
Owner               Hydro   Thermal   Nuclear   Total   Stations    Stations
Haryana               900    1,327          -     2,227         8            -
DESU                   -        552         -       552         3            2
Himachal Pradesh      420        -          -       420        11            _
Jammu & Kashmir       271        63         -       334        13            -
Rajasthan           1,013       768         -     1,781        17            1
Uttar Pradesh       3,465    5,742          -     9,207        32           10
Punjab              2,506    1,280          -     3,786        14            2
Central             5,230    7,350      1,380   13,960         28           20
13,805   17,082      1,380   32,267        126          35
8.       In 1995, at 32,000 MW the Northern Region system will be
comparable in size in terms of capacity to the national systems of Sweden
or Spain today, which have sophisticated load dispatch systems. Given that
a 32,000 MW system represents a capital investment of US$32 billion at a
conservative US$1,000/kW capacity cost, the planned Northern Region unified
load dispatch system costing about US$130 million represents only a 0.4Z
investment relative to the total system investment.
Existing Manual Operation
9.       At present all generating stations and substations 33 kV and above
are manned, each SEB or central agency has an area control center, and
regional system operation is coordinated by the Northern Region Load
Dispatch Center (NRLDC) in New Delhi. Communication circuits are available
between most points using power line carrier, microwave or P&T lines;
however, there is very little telemetered data on telephoned information to
maintain an awareness of system loading, plant outputs, voltage levels,
system faults and hazardous conditions. System load dispatch is directed
largely based on pre-arranged schedules for generating and load for each
area (SEB) center modified by continuous monitoring of the frequency with
appropriate load shedding to keep the frequency within an acceptable load
(probably 49 to 51 Hz compared to 49.9 to 50.1 Hz on a system with adequate
reserve capacity and modern load dispatch equipment). The manual form of
operation results in lengthened outages following any tripping, poor
quality of service (frequency and voltage), uneconomic load dispatch,
severe duty on utility and consumer equipment, operational inefficiencies,
excessive stress on staff, unreliable electricity supply (as evident from
April 1989 newspaper articles reporting public unrest over the poor quality
of electric service in Delhi).






-115-                        Annex 3.8
Page 6 of 6
(c) Reduced Equipment Damage. The constantly varying frequency
and voltage conditions combined with increased equipment operation during
disturbances will shorten the life of both utility and consumer equipment
and appliances. Considering only the utility equipment, if the equipment
life is shortened by only three years from a normal 20-year life, the cost
based on 32,000 MW and 1OZ interest is US$54 million.
(d) Cost of Consumer Standby Plant. If power supply conditions on
the Northern Region system are not improved by installing the unified load
dispatch scheme, some industrial consumers will install additional standby
capacity. Even if only 50 MW is installed annually (only 31 of the annual
1,800 MW load growth in 1995), the cost at US$500/kWh would be
US$25 million.
(e) Savings Due to Operational Efficiency. Computer-controlled
automatic load dispatch will affect fuel savings and reduction in system
losses. NREB estimates the overall savings will be equivalent to 0.5% of
the value of system energy. Based on 18,000 MW load, 80% annual load
factor and a 3 US cents/kWh energy cost, the annual savings are
US$19 million.
(f) Benefit Summary. The annual benefits are summarized as
follows:
US$ Million
Increased utility revenue                  7
Outage savings to consumers               60
Reduced equipment damage                  54
Consumer standby savings                  25
Operational efficiency savings            19
165
12.      The US$130 million cost of the unified load dispatch scheme
therefore would be recovered in only one year based on the above analysis.
It must be noted, however, that this analysis assumes that corrective
action would be taken prior to 1995 so that generating plant productivity
is increased to provide spare capacity and permit normal local control
using the unified load dispatch scheme.






INOI A
NATIONAL NYDRO ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT
- -A--          - ACTUAL ----------------------EST .-----FORECAST
Year ending March 31st.              1985     1986      1987      1988     1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999
GENERAT ION & ENERGY SALES
Gross Generation (Gwh)               921      1092      1207      1156     3227      3483      3483     3483      4380      5692      7798     9626    11902    13967    15081
Station Use (Gwh)                      4         5         5        12       26        35        35       35        44        57       78        96       119      140       151
Free Power (GCh)                                                                                                                      113       265      509       754      792
Transmission Losses (GCh)             43        31        39       42        82       120       120      120       150       183      249       306      373       427      455
Net Generation (GCh)                 874      1056      1163     1102      3119      3328     3328      3328      4187     5452      7358      8958    10901    12646    13683
Avg. Tariff Rate (ps./kwh)            42        45        41     43.7      45.1      45.0     46.0      50.0      56.0     64.2      66.0      73.0     78.0      80.0     81.5
Gen. Energy Sales (Rs. Mil.)         364       474      474       482      1406      1498     1531      1664      2344     3500      4856     6539      8503    10117    11152
Wheel Energy (GCh)                                      281      1025      1301      1418     1602      1602      2517     3392      4942      7030     9231    11225    17225
Avg. Wheel Rate (ps./kwh)                              45.5      45.0      45.0     43.0      44.0      47.0      54.0     60.0      62.0     68.0      70.0      71.0    71.00
Wheel Revenue (Rs. Mil.)                                 128      461       585      610       705       753      1359     2035      3064     4780      6462      7970    12230
REVENUE (Rs. Mil.)
Electricity Sales                    364       474      602       943      1991     2107      2236      2417      3704     5535      7920    11320    14965    18087    23382
Misc. Revenue                          7         1         1       19         8        18       11        12        19       28        40        57       75        90      117
Total Revenue               371       475      603       962      1999     2125      2247      2429     3722      5563      7960    11376    15040    18177    23499
EXPENSES (Rs. Mil.)
Purchase of Power                                        76       281       355      383       383       383       383      383       383      383       383      383       383
Wheeling Charges                       5         5         6        6         5         5        6         6         6        6         6         6        6         6        6
Operation & Maintenance               25        20       22        38        71        76       89        95       243      258       435      634       755      912      1115
Aciministration                       12        12        19       35        42       46        50        54        59       65        72       82        94       108      124
Employees' Remuneration               30        30       37        48       121       129      139       149       182      193       232      273       301      336       378
Royalty                               13        16        18       17        48       52        52        52        65       85       102      110       113      113       125
Depreciation                          39        40       43        64       184      203       203       228       228      698       698     1230      1809     2083      2455
Excise Duty/Sales Tax                 10         9        9         9         8        10       10        10        10       10        10        10       10        10       10
Prior Period Adjustments                                                     18
Total Operating Expenses          133      131       229       498      852       904      932       977      1175      1698     1937      2728     3471      3950     4595
---       -    -  -   -   -  -   -   -  -   -   -    - -    -  -   -  -    -   -    - -   -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -  -   -    -  -  -   -  -   -   -   .
OPERATING INCOME (Rs. Mil.)         238       345      374       464      1147     1222      1315      1452     2547      3865      6023     8649    11569    14228    18904
---                -      -      -     -       -      -     -      -      --            -     -      --           -      --            -     --            -     -
INTEREST EXPENSES (Rs. Mil.)
Total Interest                       163      220       268       608      1924     1603      2000     2226      2860      3989      5874     7724     9245      9849     9881
Interest Capitalized (IDC)            10       64        88       387      1295      957      1357      1615     2102      2085     3557      3928     3536      2891     2280            t  >
Interest Expensed             153       157       181      221       629      646       643       611       758     1904      2317     3796      5709     6958      7601           r 
........   .    ..   ...    ...................    .    ......  ..........  ..................................  ............    ....................----......------------..--....------.-------......-----------......-------. ..
NET INCONE (Rs. mil.)             85       188      193       243      518       576       672      840      1789      1961     37D6      4852     5860      7270     1303                -
,--.----.....   ..,  .,..-----.----..-.---------.   ..-------...--.-.-..-.....-.......----.-----     -,--.....------------------8-0--1789--1961--37--6-4852. ..586 . . . ------1-1303
rhH






INDIA
NATIONAL HYDRO ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SOJRCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT
- -------------- ACTUAL --------------------- EST ----FORECAST
Year ending March 31st.            1985     1986      1987     1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997      1998     1999
SOURCES (Rs. Mit.)
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                    238      345       374      464      1147     1222     1315      1452     2547     3865      6023     8649    11569    14228    18904
Depreciation                         39       40        43       64       184      203      203       228      228      698       698     1230      1809     2083     2455
Total Internal Generation         277      384      416       528     1331      1425     1518     1680      2775     4563     6721      9879    13378    16310    21358
Borrowings
GOI Loans                           279      268       141       20     3637       581               267      2282     7575     9308    12165    10795    10424    16513
Bonds                                                 1436     1300     1500      3700     2150
Foreign Loans                       141      219      422       397      598       249      707     2373      4351     2734      1314     1257      978      918
Proposed Bank Loan                                                                          143      898      1804     2150      1661     1745       60       31
Total Borrowings            420       487     1999      1717     5735     4530      3000     3538     8437    12459    12283    15167    11832    11373    16513
Equity
Paid-in Capital                     925     1676      968      1433     4129     4119      4452    18159    15762    12804    14040    11517    15385    16929    12041
TOTAL SOURCES             1622      2547     3383     3678    11195    10074      8970    23377    26974    29826    33044    36563    40595    44612    49912
…~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
APPLICATIONS (Rs. Mil.)
Investments
Proposed Project                                                           7       166      385      1661     3355     4021     3139      3193       89
Other Capital Investments          1543     2130      2632     2656     7991      7481     6482    18068    19421    19604    22146    22966    26333    28275    33534
Interest Capitalized (IDC)           10       64       88       387     1295      957      1357     1615      2102     2085     3557     3928      3536     2891     2280
Total Investment Program        1553     2194     2720      3043     9293     8604      8224    21344    24878    25710    28842    30086    29958    31166    35814
Debt-Service
Interest Expensed                   153      157       181      221      629      646       643      611       758     1904     2317     3796      5709     6958     7601
Principal Repayment
GOI Loans                      43       58      113       130      157      423       427      436      527       527      735      1435     1435     1840     2557
Bonds                                                                                                            1436      520                         780     1500
Foreign Loans                                                                                           294       294      294      294      1339     1339     1339
Proposed Bank Loan                                                                                                 12       87      237       416      555      700
Total Debt-Service            196      215      294       351      786     1069      1070     1047     1579      4174     3953     5763     8900    11471    13697
Working Capitat l)
Net Change                         -127      139      370       284     1116      401      -323      987       517      -57      249      714      1737     1974      402           qq
TOTAL APPLICATIONS           1622     2547     3383      3678    11195    10074      8971    23378    26974    29826    33044    36563    40595    44612    49913                 -
---------------------------------   ---------------------                                                                                                                  I_lh   ~-A






-121-                            ANNEX 4.1
Page 6 of 10
NATIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION (NHPC)
Financial Indicators - Definitions
1. Rate of Return Based on Historical Costs
The Corporation shall take from time to time all such measures as
may be necessary including, if necessary, adjustment of tariffs of the
Corporation to ensure that the total revenue in any financial year shall,
after meeting:  (i) all expenses properly chargeable to revenues, including
operating, maintenance and management expenses; (ii) taxes on income and
profits; and (iii) depreciation; produce such surplus before interest as is
not less than 11.5Z in FY 91 and thereafter, of the average net fixed assets
of the Corporation in service at the beginning and at the end of such year.
Critical terms listed above would be defined as follows:
(a)  "total revenues" means revenues of the Corporation from the sale of
electricity and other services, miscellaneous income, and
subventions in respect of extraordinary costs which are borne by
the Corporation and which are not passed on to customers of the
Corporation;
(b)  "expenses" means the cost of power purchased, fuel, operating,
maintenance, management and administrative expenses, and all taxes
and duties accruing during the financial year, other than taxes on
income and profits of the Corporation;
(c)  "taxes on income and profits" consists of income taxes and other
levies accrued by the Corporation according to the provisions of
any legislation or regulation applicable in this respect;
(d)  "depreciation" means a provision derived in accordance with the
straight-line method based on the useful life of assets as
stipulated in the Borrower's notification G.S.R. No. 1330 (E) dated
December 12, 1986, issued under the provisions of Section 68 of the
Electricity (Supply) Act 1948, of the Borrower, as amended from
time to time, based on the gross value of the Corporation's fixed
assets in service at the beginning of each year; and
(e)  "net fixed assets of the Corporation in service" means the original
cost of such fixed assets, as reduced by the aggregate of the
cumulative depreciation in respect of such assets.
2.  Rate of Return Based on Revalued Costs (Bank Guidelines)
Numerator: Income after depreciation but before interest.
Denominator: Average net fixed assets in operation after deducting
accumulated depreciation. A pro-forma revaluation was made by revaluing
assets yearly at the domestic inflation rate.






ANNEX 4.1
-123-                                Page 8 of 10
Financial Projections' Assumptions
Price Escalation
1.       Local inflation is assumed to be 7.OZ in 1991 and 1992, 6.6Z in
1993, 6.5Z in 1994 and 1995, 6.1Z in 1996, and 6Z thereafter.
2.       Foreign inflation is assumed to be 4.9Z in 1991 - 1995, and 3.7Z
thereafter.
Income Statements
3.       The amount of NHPC generation is based on CEA's feasibility
studies. Station consumption is assumed to be 1Z of gross generation. Free
power of 12Z gross generation is provided to the home States from power
generated in some projects while in others, a royalty of 1.5 p/kwh is
provided. Transmission losses are assumed to range from 2.5Z to 6.0 of
gross generation net of station use. Tariff rates are based on cost-plus
pricing.
4.       Wheeled power is power that NHPC purchases and wheels through its
transmission system or the Chuka Transmission System.  Tariff rates are
based on cost-plus pricing.
5.       Miscellaneous revenue includes recoveries and sale of assets and is
escalated at 0.5Z p.a.
6.       Purchased power is imported power that is wheeled through the Chuka
Transmission system. Wheeling charges are incurred for the use of the Chuka
Transmission System. Both power purchases and wheeling charges are assumed
to remain largely constant as a result of a long-term contractual agreement.
7.       Operation and maintenance is escalated at the estimated domestic
inflation rate plus a 0.6Z of investments commissioned during the year.
8.       Administration expense is escalated at the estimated domestic
inflation rate plus a 0.4Z of investments commissioned during the year.
9.       Employees' remuneration is escallated at the estimated domestic
inflation rate plus a 1Z of investments commissioned during the year.
10.      Depreciation expense is assumed to be 2.OZ of average gross fixed
assets.






-125-                              ANNEX 4.1
Page 10 of 10
26.      Debt-service obligations reflect NHPC's obligations to meet both
interest and principal repayments of its borrowings. Repayment of principal
of GOI loans begin after 3 years grace and over a 12-year period. Bonds
repayment are ballon payments maturing in 7 or 10 years depending on the
issues. Foreign loans other than Bank's loans are repayable at the year of
project commissioning and over 10 years.






-127-                     Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 6
improvement in end-use efficiencies. GOI's targets for annual economic
growth of 6Z under the Eighth Plan and 5 thereafter appear consistent with
projected demand increases in the Region of 9.7Z per year. Together with
the persistent shortage of generating capacity, this suggests there is
little possibility that additional capacity to be provided in the Region
through FY2000 will not be utilized as planned. Consequently, there is
little possibility that the transmission facilities included under the
proposed project will not be required when they are commissioned.
Least-Cost Analysis
5.       CEA's least-cost planning of generation development in the
Northern Region includes all hydroelectric projects having engineering
planning sufficiently advanced for the projects to be implemented during
the Eighth and Ninth Plans. These projects were selected into the
development program ahead of thermal project options. Within the
constraints of the hydrology of each site, the projects have been
configured with their highest power ratings, so as to maximize their
contribution to easing the Region's deficits of peak generating capacity
(Annex 1.2, Table 1). CEA's analyses show that to increase peak generating
capacity, the proposed hydro projects are cheaper than thermal
alternatives. Although CEA does not plan generation and transmission
integrally, the hydro projects retain this relative cost advantage even
after allowing for the higher investments in transmission the projects
require.
6.       In some important respects, CEA's planning is over-simplified.
For example, its generat'ion plans are developed from financial rather than
economic costs. Similarly, the omissions of consideration of oil and gas
as options for peak generation probably result in more base-load capacity
being planned than would be included in a strict least-cost development
plan. However, this does not affect inclusion into the least-cost program
of the hydro power stations which the transmission lines included in the
proposed project would serve. Rather, the inclusion in the development
program of additional peak generation based on oil and gas would further
reduce the amount of unserved energy compared with the program as presently
planned.
Program Analysis
7.       Benefits from the proposed project cannot easily be separated from
benefits that will be derived from other investments in generation,
transmission and distribution in the Northern Region. Because of this, it
is appropriate to focus cost-benefit analysis primarily on the Northern
Region development program as a whole. Analysis has considered the FY90 to
FY2000 time-slice of the development program. This period covers
implementation of the hydro power stations with which the transmission
lines included in the proposed project are associated, and implementation
of the lines themselves.
Program Costs
8.       Capital costs and the operating and maintenance costs of the
program time-slice are shown in Table 3. Capital costs cover investments






-129-                      Annex 5.1
Page 4 of 6
will be at least equal and probably above what they are required to pay for
additional supplies, otherwise consumption would not increase. The extent
of consumers' net benefits (which are referred to as consumers' surplus)
can be estimated as savings consumers obtain through access to public
electricity compared with the costs of their cheapest means of alternative
supply. The program analysis has estimated rates of return first with
benefits limited to incremental revenues and then again with allowance made
for consumers' surplus.
Incremental Revenues
13.      Average tariff levels in the Northern Region over the last few
years are shown in Table 4. The average tariff level in FY90 (weighted by
consumption share) is estimated to be 67 paise per kWh. The structure of
tariffs throughout the Region is broadly similar. Principal features of
tariffs are their complexity, the deep subsidy of low voltage consumers
(and of agriculture in particular), and the absence of any distinction
between the costs of supplying energy during peak and off-peak periods.
14.      Future changes in tariff levels will be the result both of
increases in prices and changing sectoral shares of consumption. As load
is expected to grow relatively more quickly amongst low voltage consumers
(para 3), the increasing share of consumption at low voltage will exert a
downwards pressure on average tariff levels. However, GOI's 3Z minimum
rate of return target places states under pressure to accelerate tariff
reform. Because of this, it has been assumed that average tariff levels
over the next few years will increase in real terms at 6Z per year. Under
this assumption, the avetage tariff level would rise from 67 paise per kWh
in FY90 to 100 paise per kWh by 1997 (in constant 1990 prices). After
FY97, it has been assumed that the average level will remain constant in
real terms. Applying an SCF of 0.8, the corresponding rate of economic
benefit in FY97 and thereafter is estimated to be 80 paise per kWh.
Consumer Surplus
15.      In addition to the amounts paid for public supply, it has been
assumed that half of consumers would be willing to pay the additional costs
they would incur in meeting their electricity needs through private
generation. In practice, at low levels of electricity consumption (as in
India), consumers are likely to be considerably less sensitive to price.
Hence, the assumption that consumer surplus accrues at only half of the
additional costs of autogeneration is likely to be conservative.
16.      Estimated costs of autogeneration are summarized in Table 5.
Costs have been estimated separately for large diesel generators (in the
range 200 kW to 400 kW) as used by medium and large industries, and for
small generators (of about 50 kW capacity) as used in workshops and
commercial undertakings. Assuming 152 machine utilization (which is
typical for private generating installations), the average cost of
autogeneration is estimated at 207 paise per kWh from a large machine and
275 paise per kWh from a small machine.






-131-                     Annex 5.1
Page 6 of 6
implementation proceeds. However, the least-cost analysis provides
assurance that the transmission lines included in the proposed project
would not be deferred: the hydro projects with which these lines are
associated were selected into the development program ahead of thermal
project options (para 5). Moreover, set against the likelihood of adverse
changes in the cost of projects and their implementation periods are equal
likelihoods of more favourable outcomes.






-133-
Annex 5.1, Table 2
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Northern Region: Electricity Consumption by Consumer Category
AVERAGE                                             AVERAGE
ACTUAL                 GROWTH                 PROJECTIONS                   GROWTH
1981/82            1987/88        1981/88         1989                 199912000      1988/2000
(W)        %)(GWh)    (60)           IV p.a.)   (Gwn)        (%6)      tGAr        ()   (  p.a.)
Consumer Category
1. Domestic             4,000.7   13.3    6,476.1   15.5    8.4         7,810.1    16.0    27,054.5    18.8    11.6
2. Connercial           2,544.0    8.5    3,940.0    9.4    7.6         4,678.2      9.6    1,4881.4    10.3    10.8
3. Industry            13,302.5   44.3   17,681.9   42.3    4.9    20,508.7    41.9    59,223.0    41.1             9.8
4. Public Lighting        207.2    0.7       288.3    0.7    5.7          337.7      0.7      1,037.2      0.7    10.4
5. Traction               525.6    1.8       693.6    1.7    4.7          861.3       1.8     2,434.6      1.7      9.6
6. Agriculture          8,950.4   29.8   11,690.5   28.0    4.6    13,550.2    27.7    35,770.1    24.8             8.9
7. Public Water           504.6    1.7    1,011.1    2.4   12.3         1,189.1      2.4      3,659.1      2.5    10.4
Total a/       30.035.0           41.781.5                     48.935.2             144 059.9
a/ Differences with figures for energy availability in Table 1 reflect
technical and non-technical losses.
Source:  Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December 1987,
plus supporting analysis by CEA.






-135-
Annex 5.1, Table 4
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Northern Region: Average Power Prices by Main Consumer Category
Real Increases in Prices
1985/86             1989/90          1985/86 to 1989/90
Actual     Real    Actual       Real        z        I p.a.
Main Consumer                                        a/
Category
Domestic              49         49        58        43        -11          -3
Commercial            79         79        93        70        -12          -3
Industry              68         68        93        70          2           1
Agriculture           21         21        21         16       -25          -7
Other                 45         45        77        58         28           7
a/ Deflated using an index of consumer prices, published in the
International Financial Statistics, IMF, July, 1989.
Source: Annual Report of the Working of State Electricity Boards and
Electricity Departments, Planning Commission, May, 1989.






-137-
Annex 5.1, Table 7
INDIA
NORTHERN REGION TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Assumed Rates of Consumer Surplus (For FY97)
Consumer             Consumption    Autogeneration        Average        Surplus
Category                 Share            Cost            Tariff         Imputed  a/
(Z)          (Paise/kWh)      (Paise/kWh)   (Paise/kWh)
Domestic                 18.1              275               58            109
Commercial               10.1              275               93              91
Industry                 41.3              207               93             57
Agriculture b/           25.6              341               21             160
Other c/                  4.9              207               77             65
100.0                      Average: 67               97
a/ Surplus imputed at half the difference between the average tariff
level and the corresponding cost of autogeneration.
b/ Figure given for autogeneration cost is the electricity cost equating
the costs of diesel and electric pumping.
c/ Comprises: public lighting, public water pumping, bulk sales to
distribution utilities and inter-region sales.






MAP SECTION






72.                                                                       *    .6       Busa                              780                   R JCT P A E
( \   |  *- .Approximate Line of Controa---             Bursar                                                PROJECT   PHASES
+   Ir zs 1 t !leA S fItt v</WX!veS  \      * Ui                                    S  w_                                                              Kithe.p.,/ 
34                                       *n                                                   Pakhal                 JAMMU                           '; _7                ,shp  ,             N
2  s. atosjJn3atns    sAND  34-            0s          ,    HIMACHAL
I.!>1f Jz J.jv,rlKsssi  1td.  1  @ *   1l   vIr <                                               PAKISTAN                        PRADESH
rzet ,I d F 0 .1 1~, Ae Loa 00n 0)0                                           E                                 1l    s                   { KASHMIR                                       N  h,
0).,sgo> #o dAIA)'f0gS rJ)00J0                1                                                                                                        1                                  N .thokri
Kistwar                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Koldom
Sawalkot                                                                                        -.
Ratle -ra                  11    >      /-1           _l ^    /Aoga               CP1jPUNJAB'
ishenpur         *                  'b.        # \              - Mogo               CHIANDIGARH



