Page  1
                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                        LOAN NUMBER 3237 IN
                     Project Agreement
          (Northern Region Transmission Project)
                          between
           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                      AND DEVELOPMENT
                            and
     NATIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
                   Dated October 3, 1990
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3237 IN
                     PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 3, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank)  and NATIONAL
HYDROELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION LIMITED (NHPC).
     WHEREAS:   (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between India,  acting by its President (the Borrower)  and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four hundred eighty five
million dollars ($485,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NHPC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NHPC, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to NHPC
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS NHPC,  in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                         ARTICLE I
                        Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires,  the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions  (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                        ARTICLE II
                 Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. NHPC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative,  financial,  engineering and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the funds,  facilities,  services and other resources
required for the Project.
    Section 2.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
    Section 2.03. NHPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions  (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part A of the Project.
    Section 2.04. NHPC shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, NHPC shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending,  abrogating,  assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 2.05.  (a) NHPC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,  and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
    (b)  NHPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by NHPC of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
                        ARTICLE III
             Management and Operations of NHPC
    Section 3.01. NHPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. NHPC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time,  promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
Page  3
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
     Section 3.03. NHPC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04.  NHPC  shall take  all steps necessary to
maintain:  (i) its accounts receivable on October 31, 1990 at a
level not more than 11 months of its average monthly sales of power
during the previous 12 months;  and (ii)  its accounts receivable at
a level not more than 9 months of its average monthly sales of power
in FY 1991, 8 months in FY 1992, 6 months in FY 1993,  4 months in
FY 1994 and 3 months in FY 1995 and thereafter.
                        ARTICLE IV
                    Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a) NHPC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  NHPC shall:
           (i)  have its records, accounts and financial
                statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                and expenses and related statements)  for each
                financial year audited,  in accordance with
                appropriate auditing principles consistently
                applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                the Bank;
           (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than seven months after the
                end of each such year,  (A)  certified copies of
                its financial statements for such year as so
                audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
                auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
                Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and financial
                statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) NHPC shall take from time to time all such
measures as may be necessary including, if necessary, adjustment of
its tariffs to ensure that the total revenues in any financial year
shall, after meeting: (i) all expenses properly chargeable to
revenues,  including operating,  maintenance and management
expenses;  (ii) taxes on income and profits; and (iii) depreciation;
produce such surplus before interest as is not less than 11.5% in
FYs 91 and thereafter, of the average net fixed assets of NHPC in
service at the beginning and at the end of such year.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
       (i) "total revenues" means revenues of NHPC from the sale of
           electricity and other services, miscellaneous income,
           and subventions in respect of extraordinary costs which
           are borne by NHPC and which are not passed on to
           customers of NHPC;
      (ii) "expenses" means the cost of power purchased, fuel,
           operating, maintenance, management and administrative
           expenses, and all taxes and duties accruing during the
           financial year,  other than taxes on income and profits
           of NHPC;
     (iii) "taxes on income and profits" consists of income taxes
Page  4
           and other levies accrued by NHPC according to the
           provisions of any legislation or regulation applicable
           in this respect;
     (iv)  "depreciation" means a provision derived in accordance
           with the straight-line method based on the useful life
           of assets  as  stipulated  in the Borrower's
           notification G.S.R. No. 1330 (E) dated December 12,
           1986, issued under the provisions of Section 68 of the
           Electricity (Supply) Act 1948, of the Borrower, as
           amended from time to time, based on the gross value of
           NHPC's fixed assets  in service at the beginning of each
           year; and
       (v) "net fixed assets of NHPC in service" means the original
           cost of such fixed assets, as reduced by the aggregate
           of the cumulative depreciation in respect of such
           assets.
     Section 4.03. NHPC shall furnish to the Bank by December 31
each year a report of NHPC's forecast of operational and financial
performance for the ensuing two financial years.  Commencing
December 31,  1991,  such reports shall specify the actions that
will be taken to ensure fulfillment of the requirements of Section
4.02 of this Agreement.
     Section 4.04. NHPC shall one year prior to the commissioning
of the  transmission line from Abdullapur to Naptha Jhakri establish
commercial arrangements with NJPC,  acceptable to the Bank, in
respect of the power generated by NJPC.
                         ARTICLE V
               Effective Date; Termination;
                Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of NHPC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify NHPC thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                        ARTICLE VI
                 Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,  telegram, cable,
telex or radio gram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
Designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
           International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
Page  5
           Cable address:                  Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT)
                Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
     For NHPC:
           National Hydroelectric Power
           Corporation Limited
           Hemkunt Tower
           98-Nehru Place
           New Delhi 110019, India
           Cable address:             Telex:
                HYDROCORP                  031-65850 NHPC
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NHPC may be taken or executed by the Chairman
and Managing Director or such other person or persons as NHPC shall
designate in writing, and NHPC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts,  each of which shall be  an original,  and all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America,  as of the day and year first above written.
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                    Regional Vice President
                                                       Asia
                NATIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER
                  CORPORATION LIMITED
                By /s/ Prem Singh
                                  Authorized Representative
                         SCHEDULE
           Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and erection of
substations and transmission lines  shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  6
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement for the erection of substations and
transmission lines in accordance with the procedures described in
Part A hereof,  domestic contractors in India may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with,  and subject to,  the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Switchyard structures, cables and fittings may be procured on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Special tools and instruments up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $7,200,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a
list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections
I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and
2.56 thereof), or through direct contracting if for reasons for
standardization,  or because the tool or  instrument  is proprietary
or for any other reason, is available from only one source,
provided, however, that the list of items to be procured under the
provisions of this paragraph shall have been approved by the Bank.
3.   Civil works contracts may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part E:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)   With  respect  to  each contract  for  equipment  and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account,  such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  7
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist NHPC and NREB in carrying out of the
Project,  NHPC  and NREB  shall  employ  consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.   The terms of reference for the consultants required for
carrying out the detailed design and supervision of procurement and
installation of the load dispatch and control system under Part B
(ii) of the Project, including a short list of consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than December 31, 1991, and contracts for employing the selected
consultants shall be awarded not later than July 31, 1992.
