Page  1
                                             October 5, 1993
Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Dear Sir:
  INDIA: (LN 3237-IN) Northern Region Transmission Project
     We refer to the Loan Agreement (Northern Region Transmission
Project) between India  (the Borrower) and the Bank dated October 3, 1990
and to the Project Agreement (Northern Region Transmission Project) of
the same date between the Bank and National Hydroelectric Power
Corporation Ltd (NHPC).  We also refer to the Ordinance of the President
of India dated January 8, 1993 under which certain power transmission
systems have been transferred to the newly established Power Grid
Corporation of India Limited (POWERGRID) with effect from April 1, 1992,
including those owned and operated by NHPC.
     With reference to our discussions over a period of time wherein the
Government of India has conveyed their desire to transfer the
responsibility of carrying out the Northern Region Transmission Project
(Project) from NHPC to POWERGRID, this is to advise you that the Bank has
agreed to the transfer of responsibility of carrying out the Project to
POWERGRID.
     Accordingly, we propose to sign a POWERGRID Project Agreement
between the Bank and POWERGRID, and amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
     a)   Wherever appearing in the Loan Agreement, "NHPC" is
          substituted by "POWERGRID", "Project Agreement" is
          substituted by "POWERGRID Project Agreement", and "Subsidiary
          Loan Agreement" is substituted by "POWERGRID Subsidiary Loan
          Agreement".
     b)   Section 3.02 (a) is amended to read:
          "Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower shall relend an amount
          equivalent to $475,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Loan to
          POWERGRID under a POWERGRID Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
          entered into between the Borrower and POWERGRID, under terms
          and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank."
     c)   The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
          Agreement is amended as per Annex 1 to this letter.
     d)   The Description of the Project (Schedule 2) is amended as per
          Annexure 2 attached to this letter.
     The provisions of this amending letter shall take effect on the
date notified by the Bank to the Borrower and POWERGRID, after receipt of
evidence that the: (i) POWERGRID Project Agreement has been signed; and
(ii) POWERGRID Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and POWERGRID.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing the form
of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to
us.
                        Yours truly,
Page  2
                        Heinz Vergin
                          Director
                  India Country Department
CONFIRMED:
INDIA
By:  /s/ M. Prasad
     Authorized Representative
                                                   ANNEXURE 1
                         SCHEDULE 1
           Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
                    Amount of the
                    Loan Allocated      % of
                    (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category       Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1)  Civil works    15,000,000          70%
     and substation
     erection
(2)  Equipment,     420,000,000         100% of foreign
     materials and                      expenditures and
     erection of                        100% of local ex-
     transmission                       penditures (ex-
     lines                              factory cost)
(3)  Consultants'   15,000,000          100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Unallocated    35,000,000
          TOTAL    485,000,000
                                                   ANNEXURE 2
                         SCHEDULE 2
                 Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to improve operating efficiency,
reliability and quality of service in the power system in the northern
region of India.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:POWERGRID
  (i) The construction of about 1100 km of 400 kV double circuit, about
      325 km of 400 kV single circuit, about 600 km of 765 kV single
      circuit and about 40 km of 220 kV single and double circuit
      transmission lines.
Page  3
 (ii) The construction/modification of nine substations with a total
      capacity of about 2500 MVA.
(iii) Carrying out of a program of compensatory afforestation.
 (iv) Carrying out a detailed design and supervision of construction of
      works under part A of the Project.
  (v) Carrying out of training for POWERGRID staff.
 (vi) The installation of a regional load dispatch and control system,
      including detailed design and supervision of procurement and
      installation of the system.
Part B:The Borrower
  (i) Carrying out of a program of enhancing the planning capabilities
      of the Central Electricity Authority of India.
 (ii) Utilization of engineering services for hydro-electric power
      stations.
                         *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.
