Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7117-GZ
WEST BANK AND GAZA
PALESTINIAN EXPATRIATE PROFESSIONAL PROGRAM
TECHNICAL ANNEX
May 14, 1997
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1997)
Currency Unit: New Israeli Sheqalim (NIS)
US$1.0 = NIS 3.35
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)        =   1.09 yards (yd)
1 m2               =   10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)    =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 km2              =   0.38 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
CBJ       =    Central Bank of Jordan
CG        =    Consultative Group
EAP       =    Emergency Assistance Program
EHRP      =    Education and Health Rehabilitation Project
ERP       =    Emergency Rehabilitation Project
GOI       =    Government of Israel
HF        =    Holst Fund
IDA       =    International Development Association
MOET      =    Ministry of Economy and Trade
MOF       =    Ministry of Finance
MOPIC    =    Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
PA        =    Palestinian Authority
PECDAR  =    Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
PEPP      =    Palestinian Expatriate Professional Program
PLO       =    Palestine Liberation Organization
PMA       =    Palestine Monetary Authority
SC        =    Steering Committee
TA        =    Technical Assistance
TATF      =    Technical Assistance Trust Fund
TFGWB   =    Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
TOKTEN  =    Transfer of Knowledge through Expatriate Nationals
TS        =    Technical Secretariat
UNDP      =    United Nations Development Programme
WBG       =    West Bank and Gaza
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Regional Vice President:          Kemal Dervi5, MNAVP
Program Manager:                  Odin Knudsen, MNCWG
Manager:                          Nigel Roberts, MNCWG
Division Chief:                   Alastair J. McKechnie, MN2PI
Task Manager:                     Robert A. Mertz, MN2PI
Peer Reviewer:                    Nimrod Raphaeli, OPRPG



WEST BANK AND GAZA
PALESTINIAN EXPATRIATE PROFESSIONAL PROGRAM
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page
I.  DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION   ................................. 1
A. Origin of the PEPP Project Concept ................................. 1
B.  Institutional Setting  ................................. 2
C.  Project Objectives  ................................  2
D. Project Cost and Financing ................................. 3
E.  Main Conditions of the Trust Fund Credit ............................. 6
F.  Risks and Risk Alleviation Measures  ................................ 6
11. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .                            .                  8
A. Project Management and Organization.                                                  8
B. Procurement .10
C. Disbursement .10
D. Accounts and Auditing .11
E. Monitoring and Evaluation .11
F. Project Supervision Plan .11
Appendix I. Key Performance Indicators .13






WEST BANK AND GAZA
PALESTINIAN EXPATRIATE PROFESSIONAL PROGRAM
TECHNICAL ANNEX
I. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    Origin of the PEPP Project Concept
1.1   Since the beginning of the technical assistance (TA) program funded by the Technical Assistance
Trust Fund (TATF) in early 1994, Palestinian ministries and agencies have frequently requested financial
support to bring expatriate Palestinian professionals from a broad range of specializations to assist various
government departments. To meet this need in the case of one key economic agency, a small amount
of TATF funds were allocated in 1995 to provide relocation allowances for Jordanians of Palestinian
origin who were being seconded by the Central Bank of Jordan to work with the Palestine Monetary
Authority (PMA) for a period of one or two years as departmental managers or senior technical experts
in bank supervision. Knowledge of this pilot program for the PMA quickly elicited requests from the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and other ministries for similar support.
1.2   Several dozen other Palestinian expatriates have come to the WBG on short-term advisory
assignments through the Transfer Of Knowledge Through Expatriate Nationals (TOKTEN) program,
managed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation (MOPIC). Frequently the sponsoring agency has asked the individual to stay
for a longer period to manage and build the department or program which he/she has designed. Since
these agencies usually do not have dedicated project resources (and wish to save the time involved in
preparing discrete project proposals), they have frequently asked the Bank for access to TATF funds to
cover the cost of longer term contracts for "graduates" of the TOKTEN program.
1.3    All of these requests had to be turned down for three reasons. First, TATF funds were
insufficient for this purpose and unsuited to this usage. Second, based on experience with the PMA and
TOKTEN, it was obvious that such a program would need to be professionally designed and managed,
with substantial, up-front institutional analysis, an institution-building orientation, an international,
competitive search process to identify the most suitable Palestinian candidates irrespective of their
location, and a competitive compensation program that could accommodate Palestinians coming from
moderate and higher income countries. Third, and most important, to be successful and to attract
external funding, such a program would have to be shielded effectively from the pressures surrounding
personnel recruitment. From experience, this would happen only if the project was professionally
managed by a qualified, independent company of recognized international stature, responsive to a multi-
ministerial body rather than to a single ministry or agency, and with independent oversight. Hence the
Palestinian Expatriate Professional Program (PEPP), as described in this annex, was developed gradually,
as a result of the lessons learned from the TATF and TOKTEN programs and in an effort to
accommodate the unpredictable and evolving operating environment.
1.4   The PEPP project concept was originally discussed in 1995 with the Palestinian Authority (PA)
and with the Palestinian private sector sponsors, a group of prominent Palestinian businessmen, the



2                                                                         Technical Annex
Palestinian-Jordanian Follow Up Committee, who had become concerned about the need to strengthen
the professional capacity of Palestinian government agencies. It was quickly agreed to join forces to
prepare the project and the Follow-Up Commnittee pledged their financial support for the project in
September 1995. Since then, a representative of the Palestinian private sector has participated at every
significant step in project preparation, including pre-qualification of potential consulting firms to provide
project management, evaluation of the proposals received, and discussions with Dutch and Israeli
government representatives and the PA.
1.5   Subsequently, a project concept note was prepared and the project was included in the Core
Investment Program of the PA and presented to the Consultative Group (CG) for the WBG which met
in Paris in November 1995. However, beginning immediately after the CG meeting, there was a rapid
downward spiral in the political and security situation in the WBG, resulting in extremely tight travel
restrictions on movement between Gaza and the West Bank. This closure policy demonstrated that
agreements would be needed with the Government of Israel to ensure the free mobility of PEPP program
participants, or the effectiveness of the PEPP program would be compromised.
B.    Institutional Setting
1.6   The institutions to be assisted under this project are the ministries and agencies of the PA. The
PA encompasses 24 ministries and 21 autonomous agencies. By agreement, the project will focus during
the pilot phase on four or five key economic ministries and agencies, including the Ministries of Finance
(MOF), Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC), Economy and Trade (MOET), Education
(MOE) and Health (MOH) and the Palestine Monetary Authority (PMA). In principle, the PEPP will
gradually expand its scope to include most ministries and agencies. The PEPP project will, however,
concentrate on high priority economic and financial management positions, specialized technical functions
and policy making units in each agency and only upon the senior management and technical positions in
those agencies. The ministries and agencies to be assisted by the project, and the priority positions to
be filled during each three-month period, will be identified in a rolling quarterly work plan which will
be prepared each quarter by the Technical Secretariat (TS).
C.    Project Objectives
1.7   The PEPP project is designed to achieve the following objectives: (i) institutional development:
(a) to strengthen the management and technical capabilities of ministries and agencies of the Palestinian
Authority; (b) for organizational units where the PEPP will recruit managers and senior technical
personnel, to advise on the appropriate organizational structure and the qualifications of the personnel
to be recruited; (c) to identify and recruit the most qualified Palestinian expatriate professionals to fill
targeted positions; (d) to establish and utilize a professional, transparent, competitive, international
recruitment process for such persons; and (e) to establish and apply an objective, transparent and fair
methodology for the payment of relocation allowances; (ii) capacity building: (a) to ensure that suitably
qualified individuals are identified and trained, primarily on-the-job, to take over the positions of the
PEPP program participants so that there is minimal disruption when they return to their countries of
domicile; and (b) to build a data base of Palestinian expatriates which can be used to recruit professionals
under the program and that can be used to maintain contact with the Palestinian diaspora once the project
has been completed.



Technical Annex                                                                             3
1.8   It is important to place the objectives of the project in the broader context of the establishment
of a Palestinian government after 30 years of occupation. The project focuses on filling imnmediate gaps
in senior management and technical positions in the PA by recruiting skilled Palestinians from outside
the WBG. The project will seek to minimize the potential disruption from the departure of PEPP
participants, by seeking to ensure that trainable permanent WBG residents, with appropriate background
and skills, are identified to work with each new PEPP participant, learning on the job, with the possibility
of some short-term training.
D.    Project Cost and Einancing
1.9    Project Costs. The estimated cost of this project is US$9 million over a three-year period, as
summarized in the following table:
Foreign        Local
Component                                    Costs          Costs         Total
--------------- US$ Million -----------
Local salaries to PEPP personnel                           -0-            3.0           3.0
Relocation allowances to PEPP personnel                    4.5           -0-           4.5
Project management                                         1.5           -0-            1.5
Total                                              6.0             3.0          9.0
1.10   Local Salaries and Relocation Allowances. The cost of local salaries and hypothetical relocation
allowances is based on the actual salaries and relocation allowances currently being paid to senior
Jordanian personnel seconded to the PMA by the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ). For budgeting purposes,
we have assumed that the average person engaged under the project would be paid an annual salary of
$20,000 and an annual relocation allowance of $30,000, slightly above the current level of salary and
relocation allowances being paid.' However, these levels would probably not be adequate to attract
individuals in higher paid positions and from higher income countries.
1.11   Table 1 shows an indicative range of relocation allowances which might apply to PEPP program
participants, calculated on the basis of a local senior management government salary in the WBG (first
column @ $18,000) and on the basis of "take-home" income in the present country of residence (columns
two, three and four). These allowances have been calculated on the basis of the World Bank's current
methodology for staff sent on overseas assignments. During the pilot phase the TS will assess the
methodologies utilized for relocation allowances by other international companies and institutions and will
develop a methodology that can be applied in a transparent and effective manner to Palestinian expatriates
coming from a large number of countries:
I/     Palestinian expatriates from Jordan currently seconded to the PMA as senior technical specialists, managers
and directors are being paid an annual salary of about $18,000 (which is about the same as their Jordanian
salaries) and an annual relocation allowance, calculated on international norms, of between $18,000 and
$24,000, a total of about $36,000 - $42,000. This is much less than foreign consultants are paid to work
in Palestine. The relocation allowance for Palestinians coming from higher wage areas, such as Western
Europe, North America and the Gulf, would probably be tied more to their opportunity cost (net take home
pay or some other comparator) and not to their governmental salary.



4                                                                      Technical Annex
Table 1: Calculation of Hypothetical Relocation Allowances
(US$)
Annual Salary **             $18,000      $50,000      $75,000     $100,000
Post Allowance
Assignment Allowance*       $2,500       $2,500       $2,500       $2,500
Hardship Allowance (15%)    $2,700       $7,500      $11,250      $15,000
Cost of Living (16.25%)     $2,925       $8,125      $12,188      $16,250
Subtotal                  $8,125      $18,125      $25,938      $33,750
Housing Allowance            $12,000      $12,000      $15,000      $15,000
Installation Expenses
Settling-in Grant*          $1,038       $2,885       $4,327       $5,769
Return to HQ grant*           $692       $1,923       $2,885       $3,846
Subtotal                  $1,731       $4,808       $7,212       $9,615
Grand Total - Individual     $21,856      $34,933      $48,150      $58,365
Family Allowance              $4,231       $7,308       $9,712      $12,115
Grand Total - Family        $26,087      $42,241      $57,862       $70,480
* family allowance would be double
** the three higher salary levels are assumed to be net of income tax in the country of current residence.
1.12  Proiect Management. The estimated cost of establishing and operating the TS over a three-year
period is US$1.5 million. Arthur Andersen subrnitted the winning proposal with a price of $2.0 million
over two years. The initial project proposal was based on a six-person international team, resident in
the WBG, with offices in Gaza and the West Bank managing a far larger program. However, the
operating environment has changed considerably from mid-1996 and the World Bank and other agencies
have encountered considerable operating difficulties, not to mention the substantial hardship imposed on
Palestinian individuals and organizations by the Israeli closures. Thus, the Bank, in December 1996,
redefined the project concept and requested that Arthur Andersen present a modified proposal based on
a smaller and non-resident professional team in order to substantially reduce the fixed costs and the use
of resident expatriate personnel. Instead the program will operate initially from abroad with a substantial
presence in the WBG whenever needed during the initial one-year pilot period. The cost of project
management for this phase is about $500,000, plus a 20 percent contingency. If all forty positions
targeted for the first year are filled, the cost per recruitment will be about $12,500 (excluding the
contingency), or about 25 percent of the average annual cash compensation. This amount is somewhat
below the normal cost of international recruitment (about one-third of the first year's cash compensation).
The unit cost is expected to decline somewhat in subsequent years since the intensive work required to
establish the operating policies and procedures and get the program going will not need to be repeated,
project management and the Steering Committee will have moved up the learning curve, and most of the
first year's recruits are expected to remain for a second year with little input from the TS.



Technical Annex                                                                       5
1.13   Toward the end of the pilot period the effectiveness of the project will be reassessed and a basis
agreed for subsequent operation of the program. Given the risks inherent in the project, continued
operation is expected to be based on an approach that minimizes fixed costs and keeps expatriate
management personnel to the minimum required for efficient project management. The contract for the
remaining two-year period of the project will be negotiated at the end of the pilot phase, based on
adjustments to the project concept and operating policies and procedures which result from the first twelve
months of operations. It is anticipated that the project will be carried out with a lean team and with
continued attention to cost-effective implementation. The salaries of international and local staff are based
on current private sector salary levels and are expected to remain constant over the life of the project.
1.14   Financing Plan. Project funds are being provided by the Palestinian Authority, the Palestinian
private sector through the Welfare Association, a private, charitable NGO headquartered in
Geneva, Switzerland, and the IDA. The Palestinian private sector sponsors informed the World
Bank in September 1995 through the Jordanian-Palestinian Follow-Up Committee that they would provide
$4-5 million to the project on a grant basis. This commitment has been reconfirmed. A first tranche of
US$3 million will be contributed to the project at the outset. These funds will be administered by IDA.
The balance of the funds (US$1-2 million) would be contributed to match an equivalent amount of funds
from donors or the IDA if the project operates successfully and if additional funds are required to expand
or extend the project. One possible source of additional funds is the Dutch Government. A meeting is
scheduled at the end of May 1997 to consider a Dutch government funding commitment for the project.
In the event that additional donor funds are contributed to the project, the Palestinian Authority has
confirmed that it will contribute additional funds up to at least US$3 million to cover the local salaries
of the additional PEPP program participants. The PA would pay the local salaries of PEPP program
participants during the period of their contract. External funds would cover the cost of the relocation
allowances and the management contract with Arthur Andersen acting as the TS.
1.15  IDA funding would amount to US$3 million, one-third of the total project cost. IDA will finance
the management contract with Arthur Andersen during the pilot phase in order to reduce the risk to the
cofinanciers that their funds would not be put to productive use if the project did not go forward.
Palestinian private sector funds would finance relocation allowances only during the pilot phase.
Assuming successful extension of the contract to the full three-year project period, funding of the
management contract and relocation allowances would shift to a pari passu basis between the Welfare
Association and the IDA at that point so that equal disbursement of both funding sources is achieved and
maintained.



6                                                                        Technical Annex
Table 2: Project Costs and Financing Plan by Component
Foreign       Local       Total
Component                         Costs        Costs     Costs/Funding
---------------- (US$million) -------------------
Local Salaries                     0.0           3.0        3.0
-PA                                -             3.0        3.0
Relocation Allowances              4.5           -          4.5
-IDA                               1.9           -          1.9
-Welfare Association               2.6           -          2.6
Project Management                 1.5           -          1.5
-IDA                               1.1           -          1.1
-Welfare Association               0.4           -          0.4
Total Project Cost and Funding     6.0           3.0        9.0
-PA                                0.0           3.0        3.0
-IDA                               3.0           -          3.0
-Welfare Association*              3.0           -          3.0
* IDA-administered
E.    Main Conditions of the Trust Fund Credit
1.16   The Trust Fund Credit would be extended for a period of 40 years, with 10 years' grace, under
standard IDA terms. The following conditions of board presentation have been met: (a) negotiation of
the project management agreement for the pilot period between the PA Ministry of Finance and Arthur
Andersen; and (b) negotiation of a Trust Fund Contribution Agreement between the Palestinian private
sector sponsors (represented by the Welfare Association) and IDA as Administrator of such funds. The
Contribution Agreement will be signed once the Board of the Welfare Association has given its approval,
expected at their next Board meeting on May 25, 1997.
F.    Risks and Risk Alleviation Measures
1.17   Risks. There are substantial political and operational risks which the project design has tried to
address. These risks include: (a) continuation of severe Israeli travel restrictions on Palestinian residents
and expatriates, particularly concerning travel between the West Bank and Gaza, thereby limiting their
mobility and effectiveness and discouraging their continued employment; (b) pressures to deviate from
what is intended to be an independent and transparent recruitment process; and (c) high turnover among
recruited expatriate professionals because of difficult living and working conditions, especially in Gaza.
These risks and the project's proposed methods of risk minimization are described in the following
paragraphs.



Technical Annex                                                                       7
1.18  Mobility and Effectiveness. The political environment for the proposed PEPP program has been
uncertain, especially since late 1995. Palestinians seconded to the PMA and financed under the TATF
have continued to encounter serious obstacles to their freedom of movement which have negatively
impacted their overall effectiveness. Under such circumstances, the World Bank and the other sponsors
of the PEPP have questioned whether or not we could establish a sufficient basis to proceed with this
program without explicit assurances of travel mobility in advance from the GOI. Following recent
conversations with our fellow sponsors, senior officials of the PA and senior representatives of the GOI,
we have decided that the need for the managerial expertise and experience which the PEPP program is
intended to provide is so critical that we must move ahead, even if we cannot obtain ironclad assurances
in advance that participants will have the mobility necessary to be fully effective in their work. We have
been informed by officials of the GOI that they will provide multiple entry visas and travel permits
ensuring free mobility between the West Bank and Gaza for PEPP program participant during the period
of their contract (including extension of that contract) so long as they can be assured by the PA that the
individuals in the program will abide by the terms of their visas. Mutually acceptable commitments and
detailed operating policies and procedures will be worked out during the pilot phase.
1.19   Fixed Cost Risk Minimization - Pilot Phase. Rather than waiting for the current uncertainty
in the West Bank/Gaza to be resolved before moving ahead with the project, we think it prudent to adopt
a flexible approach and start the PEPP program on a pilot basis. Rather than undertaking considerable
fixed costs at the beginning by moving expatriate consultants to the WBG, it seems more cost-effective
to operate initially from abroad. This would get the program going but minimize the possible financial
risks of substantial fixed costs in the event that the operating environment proved to be unsustainable.
Such an approach seems likely to reduce the substantial, up-front overheads embedded in the original
project design and project proposal when an improving political environment was anticipated. At the
Bank's request, the consultants prepared a revised proposal planning to start the project with a one-year
long pilot period during which the consultants would work largely from abroad. The project manager
and other professional staff would make periodic visits to carry out the work required on the ground.
Recruitment and other activities could be implemented largely outside the WBG. Back-stopping support
would be provided by the consultants' local offices.
1.20   During the pilot phase, the consultants would focus on recruiting persons to fill a first batch of
25-40 key positions in a small number of key economic ministries (the Ministries of Finance, Economy
and Trade, Planning and International Cooperation, Education, Health and the Palestine Monetary
Authority). These individuals would constitute a test group to establish the internal operating systems
and procedures of the PEPP program and the operating modalities of visas and travel permission with
the GOI. We plan an operational review toward the end of the pilot phase to determine what changes
might be required to adapt to the lessons learned in those first few months. If the operating environment
turns out to be unfavorable, we would make whatever adjustments were deemed necessary, including -
in the extreme - shutting down the program.
1.21  Independent Recruitment Process. In the highly charged atmosphere of the WBG, it will be
difficult to set up and operate a project to recruit managers and technical specialists for the government
in a transparent, independent and apolitical manner. This has made it difficult to identify any one
counterpart agency for the project which will satisfy other beneficiary agencies. However, the sponsors
agree that unless the recruitment process is insulated from politics, the risks are high that political
considerations will subvert the process. They have said that they would be unwilling to use their funds



8                                                                       Technical Annex
unless the independence and integrity of the process is assured. The acceptance by the Palestinian
Authority of the project concept and the proposed independent operating structure being established, as
described in the Memorandum of the President and the Technical Annex, was confirmed during
negotiations. The commitment of the PA to the principle of independent project operation has also been
confirmed in a letter to IDA from the Minister of Finance on behalf of the PA. We will also rely on the
SC and the project manager (the TS) to remain apolitical and to maintain the integrity of the recruitment
process. Finally, IDA will conduct thorough due diligence in monitoring project implementation at key
points as outlined in paragraph 14 of the Memorandum of the President.
1.22  "Interference." in Domestic Affairs. There may be concerns that an independent recruitment
process and close supervision of the consultant selection process by IDA could constitute interference in
the selection of senior Palestinian government officials. There may also be concerns that relocation
allowances give the providers of those funds a call on the loyalty of those individuals. This risk gives
added strength to the importance of a transparent and professional recruitment and selection process
insulated from politics, to the need for an explicit endorsement of the project concept and approach from
the PA prior to Board presentation, and to close monitoring of implementation by IDA. The fact that
the final choice of the individual to be contracted will, in all cases, rest solely with the Minister of the
specific Ministry should reduce this concern.
II. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Management and Organization
2.1   The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the PA. A Steering
Committee, chaired by the Minister of Finance, and consisting of the Ministers of Economy and Trade,
and Planning and International Cooperation, and two non-governmental representatives, will be
established to supervise project implementation. At least one representative of the Palestinian private
sector would participate in the project as a member of the Steering Committee. The SC is expected to
meet monthly to review project progress against the quarterly work plans, to recommend modifications
or technical improvements in design and implementation, to give the SC's approval of the prequalified
candidates and those selected by the ministries, and to approve the new quarterly work plan.
2.2    Day-to-day project management would be contracted to Arthur Andersen on behalf of the Steering
Committee. This management consulting firm would act as the Technical Secretariat (TS) for the project,
with the responsibility of establishing and operating a transparent, independent process to identify and
recruit well qualified Palestinian expatriate professionals to fill specific senior positions. The operations
of the TS have been thoroughly described in paragraph 9 of the Memorandum of the President.
2.3   The PA would be responsible for all matters regarding the contracting of the individual PEPP
participants and payment for their services. Funds would be transferred by the Bank to the PA for
payments on a three-month advance basis, subject to confirmation that the individual was performing
satisfactorily. Timely payment of local salaries and relocation allowances, bookkeeping and related
administrative tasks would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Agreement to these



Technical Annex                                                                       9
arrangements was confirmed at negotiations. The MOF will appoint an individual to assume these
responsibilities as the Ministry's project manager and counterpart to the TS.
2.4   Suitable office space and secretarial support for the TS will be provided, at cost, in the local
offices of Arthur Andersen in Gaza and the West Bank. The Arthur Andersen team consists of employees
from their Washington, D.C., Saudi Arabian and Jordanian offices. One specialist from Public
Administration Associates, a Washington-based firm specializing in public administration development
in developing countries, is also a member of the core team of the project. For the pilot period, these
individuals will travel to the WBG as needed. A data base manager will be hired locally. Should these
project management arrangements prove to be inadequate at the time of the performance review toward
the end of the pilot phase, the PA would take such measures as may be agreed with Arthur Andersen and
IDA to adjust project management satisfactorily. In addition, the following actions were agreed at
negotiations:
(a)   the PA confirmed its commitment to maintain the management contract with Arthur
Andersen on a mutually satisfactory basis between the parties during the project period
and will agree with IDA in case of any significant changes in the organization, staffing
and responsibilities of the TS; and
(b)    operating policies and procedures covering international recruitment, the methodology for
calculating and paying relocation allowances, and day-to-day management of the project
will be recommended by the TS during the pilot phase and agreed by the Steering
Committee and IDA. Financial procedures to be followed by the PA in utilizing and
auditing project funds, acceptable to IDA, will be adopted by the PA by the end of
August 1997.
2.5    At negotiations, the PA confirmed that:
(a)   the TS will prepare a quarterly work plan for each three-month period indicating which
ministries are to be assisted and which positions are to be filled, and the expected method
of recruitment. Each work plan will be agreed by the Steering Committee and IDA;
(b)    a suitably qualified local counterpart would be designated for each Palestinian expatriate
professional engaged under the program;
(c)   the TS would produce summary quarterly progress reports covering the work done in the
previous quarter, appointments and cancellations of contracts, and disbursements of
funds, as part of report containing the quarterly work plan; and
(d)   the work plan to recruit the first 10-15 candidates for the key ministries to be covered
by the first quarterly work plan during the period July 15 - October 15, 1997 will be
prepared within one month of project start-up (i.e., by target date August 15, 1997).



10                                                                       Technical Annex
B.    Procurement
2.6    All Trust Fund Credit funds and IDA-administered donor funds (a total of US$6 million) would
be used for consulting services. Both the project management contract and the payment of relocation
allowances to PEPP program participants are considered payments for consulting services because of the
nature of the work being done and the selection process which will be used. A very limited amount of
equipment may be purchased under this project as part of the contract with Arthur Andersen.
2.7   Procurement of all consulting services financed by the Trust Fund Credit funds and IDA-
administered donor funds under this project would be according to IDA guidelines for the selection of
consultants. The management company providing project management services as Technical Secretariat
to the project has been selected on the basis of an internationally diversified, competitive process. The
individual PEPP program participants will be recruited by the TS on behalf of the client ministries on the
basis of a transparent international search, using advertisements, direct contacts and other standard
recruitment techniques. Non-competitive, single source appointment of individuals will not be authorized.
2.8   The principal burden of procurement would rest on the TS, although the ministries and agencies
would have the sole responsibility to choose among the candidates identified for each position. As lender
and administrator of trust funds, IDA would act in its normal capacity to monitor project implementation
at key points. Because this is a time-consuming process, substantial staff time has been budgeted for
procurement-related issues in the supervision plan (see para. 2.17). In order to reduce the burden on staff
time, standard contracts for the relocation allowances would be used.
2.9   Schedule B of the Memorandum of the President summarizes the cost of items to be financed by
the project and the expected procurement methods for each.
C.    Disbursement
2.10   The project is expected to disburse fully over a three-year period. The Trust Fund Credit would
finance up to 100% of the cost of the project management and relocation allowances. Since the relocation
allowances will consist of many small amounts, almost all disbursements are expected to be through two
Special Accounts (SA) established for the purpose of the project. Supporting documentation in respect
of all payments would be retained by the MOF for a period of not less than two years for review by IDA
supervision missions and independent auditors, acceptable to IDA. Disbursement would be according
to the standard terms specified in the Disbursement Handbook published by the World Bank and dated
1986, as may be amended from time to time.
2.11   During the pilot phase, the Trust Fund Credit alone will fund the management contract; IDA-
administered funds from the Welfare Association will fund relocation allowances. Following completion
of the pilot phase and signature of an extension contract covering the full project period, funding of the
management contract and relocation allowances will be shared equally by the Trust Fund Credit and the
Welfare Association. Should additional external funding be received, disbursements between external
funding agencies would be expected to be proportional to maintain parity between these sources.
2.12   To expedite implementation, the MOF would establish two Special Accounts at a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA, to be operated as revolving funds for the Trust Fund Credit and the IDA-
administered contribution of the private sector to the project. These accounts would each be funded with



Technical Annex                                                                      11
an initial deposit of US$300,000 and would be replenished as and when needed upon presentation of a
withdrawal application.  The target would be to provide liquidity sufficient to cover quarterly
disbursements from each SA. The Minister of Finance and one other signatory would be authorized to
operate each SA, as well as to sign the withdrawal applications under the project. Approval of
disbursements to the Special Accounts would be contingent on continuing satisfactory performance of the
project.
D.    Accounts and Auditing
2.13   The accounts of all project funds, including the Special Accounts, would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
E.    Monitorin2 and Evaluation
2.14   A rolling work plan and budget for each quarter would be prepared by the TS and agreed with
the Steering Committee and with IDA. Implementation of these quarterly work plans would be monitored
through quarterly progress reports prepared by the TS. The content of the quarterly reports was agreed
at negotiations. The TS will furnish to the SC and IDA a work plan for the July-October 1997 period
at the end of the first month of operations. The first quarterly progress report (for the July-October 1997
quarter) would be prepared by October 15, 1997, and at quarterly intervals thereafter. To facilitate
project management and review, the quarterly progress report and forward-looking quarterly work plan
will be combined as separate sections in one document to be presented simultaneously in advance to the
SC and IDA for review and agreement.
2.15   The PA and IDA would carry out a joint review of progress in implementing the project during
the pilot period on the basis of performance indicators which were agreed at negotiations and which are
contained in Appendix 1 to this document. Key indicators would include progress, acceptable to IDA,
in recruiting the first 25-40 professionals, arrangements by the GOI to provide free mobility and full
effectiveness of PEPP program participants, and a transparent, professional and competitive selection
process.
F.    Proiect Supervision Plan
2.16   Because of the labor-intensive nature of consultant selection, IDA staff supervision of the project
is expected to require considerable effort and attention. However, the presence of a high quality TS
should enable IDA to focus on the quarterly work plans and the pre-qualification of candidates and not
to get involved in day-to-day issues of project management. The Bank's Resident Mission is expected
to be responsible for day-to-day monitoring of project activities with little need for headquarters input.



12                                                                       - Technical Annex
2.17   The table below gives the estimated staff-weeks for supervision of the project during the FY98-
FY00 period:
Supervision Plan
Fiscal Year                              FY 1998  FY 1999 FY 2000
1. Project management issues                13       12         10
2. Procurement issues                        2         1         1
Total staff-weeks                       15        13        11
The cost of IDA supervision has been calculated at $153,500 (39 staff/weeks at an average cost of
US$3,750 and US$17,000 for travel). This level of resources should be feasible. IDA is expected to
receive about US$60,000 in administrative fees on US$3 million of donor funds under Trust Fund
arrangements, calculated at two percent of the amount of funds contributed by external sources.



Technical Annex                                                                             13
APPENDIX 1
Key Performance Indicators
A. Institutional Development Objectives:                        FY 1998   FY 1999   FY 2000
- number of positions targeted for recruitment in              40         30         30
each annual period (does not include contract extensions)
- number of professionals recruited in each annual period      30         40         30
- number of professionals recruited who fulfill the full period  27       36         27
of their contract (does not include contract extensions)
- number of professionals recruited who are offered and         --        20         30
accept a second year of employment
percentage of professionals recruited who are               75%        75%        75%
considered to have performed in the first or
second tranche of performance categories
(highest = 1 and lowest = 5)
- independence, quality and transparency of the               75%        75%        75%
international recruitment process followed (rate
on the basis of the number of top-ranked candidates selected)
B. Capacity Building:
- number of individuals appointed to act as full-time deputies  30        40         30
to the expatriate professionals recruited
- number of appointed individuals who replace PEPP             n.a.       24         32
participant on his departure
- establishment and operation of the data base on expatriate  1,000      5,000     15,000
Palestinian professionals (number of individuals included)
C. Proiect Management:
- number of individual participants granted full travel and work  100%   100%       100%
permits and mobility consistent with their contracts
- quality of the methodology used to calculate and            66%       80% <      80% <
pay relocation allowances (proportion of appointments
without disputes over level of compensation percentage)
- management of project financial operations and Special Account    1 or 2  1 or 2  1 or 2
(highest = 1 and lowest = 5)
- actual disbursement of funds against projected disbursements  60% <   75% <      85% <



