                 Document of
              The World Bank




                                             Report No: 32614

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (TF-26042 TF-2704 1)



             TRUST FUND CREDIT

  1N THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT T O US$3 MILLION

                   TO THE

            WEST BANK AND GAZA

                   FOR THE

PALESTINIAN EXPATRIATE PROFESSIONAL PROGRAM



                 June 30,2005

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 2005)

                          Currency Unit    =  New Israel Shekel (NIS)
                                   NlS l   = US$ 0.223
                                  US$ 1    = N1S 4.479



                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 3 1

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AA      Arthur Anderson
CA      Credit Agreement
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
MOEHE   Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOH     Ministry of Health
MOP     Memorandum and Recommendations of the President
MOPlC   Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
OPP     Operating Policies & Procedures
PA      Palestinian Authority
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PBC     Palestinian Broadcasting Cooperation
PEPP    Palestinian Expatriate Professional Program
PMA     Palestinian Monetary Authority
PSR     Project Status Report
SC      Steering Committee
TA      Technical Assistant
TATF    Technical Assistant Trust Fund
TFGWB   Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
TTL     Task 'l'eam Leader
TS      Technical Secretariat
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
WBG     West Bank and Gaza

 -- -                     Vice President : Christiaan JI Poortman
                       Country Director : Nigel Roberts
                         Sector Manager : Luis F. Constantino
        Task Team LeaderITask Manager : Husam Abu Dagga

                                 WEST BANK AND GAZA
                        Palestinian Expatriate Professional Program


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1 . Project Data                                                                 1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                 1

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry       2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            6
6. Sustainability                                                                7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 8
8. Lessons Learned                                                              10
9. Partner Comments                                                             1 1
10. Additional Information                                                      13
Annex 1.    Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                         14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components            19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                               20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                           2 1

                                  --
l-049708                                                               Project Name: Palestinian Expatriate

               -~                                                      Professional
                                                                                                      -
                   ~..~ ..                                         .
                                         ~             ~        ~




Team Leader: Husam Abu Dagga                                                 Unit: MNSRE
                                                 -
                                  -~.
                                                                                                                             1
                           ~   ~ ~            ~




                                                                         eport Date: June 30, 2005              2
                       .   ~       ~ . .   ~   -~.      .       .....


1. Project Data


                    Name: Palestinian Expatriate Professional Project                WC/TFNumber: TF-26042; TF-2704 1
      Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                       Africa Region

          Sector/subsector: Other social services (90%); Central government administration
                             (10%)
                    Theme: Other public sector governance (P); Administrative and civil service
                             reform (P)


      KEY DATES                                                                Oripinal                Revised/Actual
             PCD: 0712211996                                      Efective:     1012411997             1012411997
        Appraisal: 0511411997                                         MTR:
         Approval: 0610511997                                        Closing:   1213112000             1213112004



       Borrower/lmplementing Agency: PALESTINIAN AUTHORITYIMINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners: The Netherlands. Arthur Andersen


  STAFF          - -- . ----
                   -               Current         -                               At Appraisal
                    -                            - -     ----- .- - ---
                                                                 --   -
  Vice President:                  Christiaan J . Poortman                         Kamal Derwish
  Country Director:                Nigel Roberts                                   Odin K. Knudsen
  Sector Manager:                  Luis F. Constantino
  Team Leader at ICR;               Husam Abu Dagga                                Robert Anton Mertz
  ICR Primary Author               Salah Abdel Shafi: Karene
                                    Melloul; Colin S. Scott; Suha
                                    Rabah


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory.S=Satist:dctory.IJ=Unsatisfactory.tIL=Highly 1.ikely. L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely.
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory. H=High. SU=Substantial, M-Modest. N=Negligible)

                                  Outcome:       U

                         Sustainabili~y: UN

    Institutional Development Impact:            N

                    Bank Performance:            U

                Borrower Performance:            U


                                                         QAG (if available)             ICR
                                     Quality at Entry:                                  U
                                     Project at Risk at any time:                        Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The original objectives of PEPP have to be assessed in the context of international and national priorities at
the point of establishingthe Palestinian Authority. Discussion between the Bank and the PA of the idea for
a project to recruit specialized expatriates from the Palestinian diaspora began as early as 1994.
Preparation continued in the spirit of optimism following the Oslo accords where donors were looking to
support capacity-building across the newly created and frail institutions as swiftly as possible. Notably,
during the same period, the World Bank and other donor agencies conducted extensive consultationson the
need to develop institutional capacity within the newly established Palestinian Authority and subsequently
developed a technical assistance program that identified priority TA projects amounting to $76 million.
This formed the basis of a subsequent $23 million multi-donor Technical Assistance Trust Fund (TATF).
However, the ICR found no evidence of strategic linking between TATF and PEPP. Moreover, the PEPP
initiative did not appear to be part of a broader integrated capacity building plan although it was
complementaryto a more modest existing initiative for expatriaterecruitment through UNDP (TOTKEN).

Nevertheless, at the finalization of PEPP documentation in May 1997,the development objectives, as stated
in the Credit Agreement, were clearly responding to urgent needs of the Palestinian Authority (PA).
Although ambitious,the objectiveswere consistentwith an international drive for building the institutions of
state, and apparently had the commitment of all parties. Human Resources was one of the five areas of
focus for the Bank strategy for early engagement (Developing the Occupied Territories: An Investment in
Peace) and building policy-making and institutional capabilitieswas a priority theme. PEPP was identified
as one of the first Bank projects under the Emergency Assistance Program to support the overall strategy.
Even though its primary objective of upgrading institutional capability appears clear and straightforward,
the specific output of attracting expatriates to fill high-level managerial and technical positions in newly
created institutionswas challenging in such a context where a 'new state' was under construction. The new
administration was itself subject to power struggles which potentially made the selection of managers
controversial.

The ICR notes the discrepancy of development objectives between the Credit Agreement (CA), the
Memorandum and Recommendations of the President (MOP) and the Technical Annex (TA) which
complicates assessment of development objectives. The TA contains the hllest description of objectives-
human resources and institutional capability - which are similar to the general objectives of the CA whilst
the MOP focuses only on the former. The ICR assesses the project against the objectives in the Credit
Agreement.

     According to the Credit Agreement, "the objective of the Project is to upgrade the institutional
     capability of the Borrower's administration [through] Carrying out a program to establish efficient
     administrative structures and improve the qualify of management and technical skills in key ministries
     and agencies through the provision of management and technical experts".

    According to the MOP. "the project seeks to attract skilled and experienced managers and senior
    technical specialists from the Palestinian diaspora to fill management and technical positions in key
     Palestinian ministries and agencies. This will improve the quality of management and technical skills
     in those ministries and agencies. It will also establish a transparent, independent and international
     recruitment process to fill these positions, based on technical qualificationsand experience, minimizing
     political considerations. Finally, using the relocation allowances paid to these professionals, it will
     help establish compensationpractices based on objective criteria and a transparentmethodology."

   According to the Technical Annex, "the PEPP project is designed to achievethe following objectives:
   (i) Institutional development by strengtheningthe management and technical capabilities of ministries
   and agencies of the Palestinian Authority; by recruiting the most qualified persons through a
   professional, transparent, competitive, international recruitment process for such persons; and by
   applying an objective, transparent and fair methodology for the payment of relocation allowances; (ii)
   capacity building by training suitably qualified individuals to take over once the PEPP program
   participants leave; by building a data base of Palestinian expatriates which can be used for subsequent
   recruitment; and (iii)project management by establishinga recruitment methodology that is transparent
   and a compensation policy and practice based on objective criteria and a transparent methodology".

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components.

Project documentationdoes not contain a section on components but uses the followingbreak-down for the
cost componentsunder the section "Cost and Financing":



          Local Salary to PEPP Personnel                   -0-             3.0             3
          Relocation allowances to PEPP Personnel          4.5             -0-             4
          Project Management                               1.5             -0-             1
          Total                                            6.0             3.0             9

The only project component, as described in the MOP is : "Over a three-year period, the project would
bring Palestinian expatriates to manage departments in Palestinian government ministries and agencies or
to serve in senior technical positions. The project would finance relocation allowances and local
governmental salaries for Palestinian expatriatesand a contract with a leading international management
consulting firm to implement the project. The consulting firm would act as the Technical Secretariat
(TS) for the project, with the responsibility of establishing and operating the identification and
recruitment process. At the request of a Palestinian ministry or agency, the TS would help identify
specific management needs, advise on appropriate institutional structure and staffing within the affected
units and define job descriptions and qualifications for the positions to be filled.          Through an
international recruitment process, the TS would next identify a number of qualified individuals for each
position and present the candidates to the respective ministries for selection. The ministries or agencies
would choose a candidate from among those presented. Finally, the TS would negotiate a contract and
competitive compensation package for the selected individuals. This compensation package would be of
two parts: (a) a salary paid by the Palestinian ministry, based on the qualifications and experience of the
individual selected and the grade of the position to be filled; and (b) a relocation allowance provided by
external funds. This allowance would cover the costs of relocating to the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) to
carry out the assignment for a one or two-year period and then relocation to the individual's original
country of domicile. About 100 Palestinian expatriate professionals are expected to be engaged under
this program, primarily on one-year renewable contracts, over the course of the next three years, or a
total of about 150 man-years. The exact number will depend on how many participants extend beyond
the first year of their assignment".

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

 3.5 Quality at Entry:

Although the stated objectives were appropriate,the quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. The ICR notes
that key performance indicators in the technical annex (TA), especially for institutional development, were
somewhat narrow in scope and indistinct from those for capacity-buildingand regrettably poorly used. The
project would have benefited from detailed output and outcome indicators,as opposed to only having input
indicators. This weakness makes it harder to assess the projects achievements.

Over and above clarity on supervision arrangements and indicators, certain other design weaknesses
diminished quality at entry:

1 . Institutional arrangements: First was the questionable measure of contracting initial project
    management to a firm, Arthur Andersen, with little local presence or expertise. The ICR team
    concluded that a Palestinian entity, a PA team, a locally established firm or NGO or even an
    international organization with local experience, might have fared better. The notion of 'parachuting
    in' senior staff was locally sensitive and using an external agency (or one perceived as such) to start
    with was questionable.

2. Implementation preparedness: Second, operating policies and procedures were neither drafted nor
    discussed until the end of 1998, a year and a half after project approval. In fact, the lack of initial
    design transformed the pilot phase into a design phase, and this, in turn, hindered clearer
    communication about the project to partners. In addition, potential visa problems for expatriates
    should have been anticipated and addressed ahead of implementation.

3 . Risk mitigation: Even if it was justifiable to plan to attract more than a limited number of senior
    managers with the commitment to stay in a high risk venture, measures to mitigate such risks or even a
    cut-off target for non-continuation were not specified.

4. Government commitment and ownership: it was wrongly assumed that the ministries, in great need of
    capacity building, were ready and capable to identify precisely their needs and translate them into
    accuratejob descriptions. Moreover, the capacity of the ministries to supervise PEPP on a case to case
    basis was probably overestimated.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.

Overall the project is rated unsatisfactory against its stated objectives in spite of some notable individual
successes. On institutional development, at best, the strengthening of management and technical
capabilities of PA ministries and agencies was only achieved sporadically. No widespread PEPP legacy
is apparent either in human resource systems or skills hand-over except in isolated cases. According to
the documentation over nearly a decade, only three expatriates have substantially affected their hosting
administration by creating or reforming systems or departments. On capacity building, little of the
objectives relating to skills transfer or continuing diaspora involvement were sustained. As an example,
efforts which translated into 13 contracts with the Ministry of Health could not prevent the closure of a
department created by PEPP candidates. Very little evidence of training has been recorded by the hosting
administrations. Such isolated results were not sufficientto establish efficient administrative structuresfor
the PA. The success of these recruitments and the much lesser success of many others confirm that it was
the execution, more than the idea that was wanting. Although project management was consistently weak
and the use of key performance indicators very poor (annex l), corrective action by all parties was too little
too late, starting with the problematic pilot phase.

The objective of the pilot was to recruit 15-20 expatriates, a reduced number following the loss
of co-funding amounting to 45% of planned finance. By the time of the pilot evaluation, only two
expatriates had been recruited and with a further 7-8 selected by the TS. Yet the evaluation assessed the
pilot as satisfactory without readjusting the objectives. The pilot phase evaluation was likely the key
missed opportunity to revise objectivesand avoid an eventual unsatisfactory rating outcome.

The unsatisfactory rating reflects an overall assessment across the lifetime of the project which spanned
many changes including the onset of the intifada, three bank task team leaders and changes in key PA and
project management (see timeline, section 10). That certain individuals worked hard at different times to
rescue the project is acknowledged but does not reverse the overall finding.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The outputs of the project are rated unsatisfac~ory. The key performance indicatorswere partially used for
the first half of the project and not used atall for the second half. This deficiency has hindered the ICR
process in assessing the outputs beyond the actual number of expatriates actually recruited. In this
respect, the quantitative results speak for themselves: over a period of eight years (instead of the three
planned), a total of 18 expatriates were recruited (against the original project objective of 100)through a
total of 39 contracts (21 of which were therefore extensions).

Moreover, most line ministries and agencies concerned did not developthe proper systems andlor structures
to accommodatethe inputs of the expatriatesand make the best use of their contributions. Such structural
prerequisite for each expatriate translated a lack of commitment. In some cases the expatriates were not
given any clear terms of reference, clear mandate or assigned reporting structure for their mission.
Additionally, functional documentation was poor and no thorough performance evaluations of expatriates
were conducted to offer them feedback on their work within the line ministries/agencies and whether they
are achieving the expected impact on functions and capacity building. All expatriates interviewed
complained about the absence of an efficient counterpart to support them in their dialogue with line
ministries, with their evaluation or with their capacity building plan as part of their tasks.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the project is rated negligible. The substantial reduction in PEPP
recruitments dashed any hope of the anticipated institutional development impact through the one
hundred key technical and managerial individuals originally planned. Nevertheless three of the eighteen
eventual recruits had notable impact. In the cases of the Ministry of Finance and the Palestinian
Monetary Authority, PEPP candidates created financial systems and fully operating departments which
have improved the capacity to manage funds. However, the isolated impact of these successes does not
alter the overall rating.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The deteriorating political situation and the subsequent decreasing level of personal security throughout the
implementation period (see timeline in section 10) was clearly the main uncontrollable factor which not
only deterred applicants but more generally impeded the implementation of PEPP. Implementation
difficulties were compounded by substantial hardship imposed on Palestinian individuals and organizations
as a result of Israeli closures as early as mid 1996,affecting, to different degrees, all levels of official PA
staff.

The onset of the Intifada in September2000 further exacerbated the working context making it difficult to
operate within manageable time tables. Additionally, participating expatriates had to enter the WBG on
Israeli Tourist Visas valid for only three months, interrupting their presence in assignments, causing
discontinuity in their work, and addingto the financial burden.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Despite the difficult operating environment, the ICR assesses that the government did allow factors under
their control to adversely affect project implementation. Project management and administration failed due
the absence of a project coordinator and an active steering committeedespite firm requests from the Bank.
This is also covered in section 5.3.

The former Minister of Finance was personally involved at the design stage of the process and very
committed to the PEPP. However, he and other Government officials did not create or enable a lower level
structure and ownership of the project, making every technical decision dependent upon their scarce
availability. The SteeringCommittee(SC) chaired by the MOF rarely met and did not discharge its duty of
supervisingthe project's implementation, following up with the line ministrieslagenciesinvolved, approving
their input on the positions needed and approving pre-qualified candidates as submitted by the TS. This
left PEPP without a steering committee for more than four years, or more than half of the project's life
time.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Implementation was the weakest and most discontinuousaspect of the project. As presented in the timeline,
implementation should be assessed across three different successive de facto implementing bodies with
substantial gaps between each period: Arthur Andersen (AA) (1997- 2001), the MOF project coordinator
(beginning 2002 - 2003), a MOF focal point who was not approved by the Bank (2004). Whereas the
MOF remains the legal implementing agency for the whole project, AA was responsible for the beginning
of actual implementation ("projectmanagement" as defined in the cost component).

1. Arthur Andersen was selected prior to project presentation to the board through a process mainly
conducted by the Bank. According to the one-year pilot phase evaluation, the relatively low number of
applicants was due in part to an insufficient advertising strategy, the remote location of AA team and also
to their weak capacity to finalize PEPP individual contracts. However, AA did gradually improve its
performance and created useful Operating Policies and Procedures (OPP) due to later adjustments towardsa
more client-oriented approach and a more skilled, locally-based team. AA also succeeded in putting in
place a transparent recruitment methodology and innovative monitoring program based on performance
indicators. However, the high cost of this international firm was ultimately hard to justifL by the small
number of contracts. Moreover, it appears the AA corporatestyle of interaction with line ministries was as
not well adapted to the local situation and was highly criticized by the PA. As assessed after the pilot

phase evaluation, AA failed to get the line ministries 'on board' with the PEPP. When the Bank brought
this issue to the attention of AA, they proposed conducting two workshops in Gaza and the West Bank
which never materialized. Finally, from the documentation, it is unclear if AA were accountable to the SC
or the MOF in their operations.

2. Due to the lack of a proper hand-over between AA and the Project coordinator in 2001-2002,much of
AA's work experience and lessons learnt were lost, leaving only the OPP for the remainder of the project.
For the rest, insufficient commitment from the MOF resulted in inadequate human resources intervention
to implement the program. However, it is important to recognize efforts made by the project coordinator
to address these deficiencies. Despite these improvements, quantitative results were still far below
projections, even adjusted to the lower targets.

3. The second transition in 2003-2004 was longer and even more detrimental than the first, resulting in a
decreased degree of supervision and responsiveness,where lessons from the experience the pilot phase were
further lost. The Bank never gave its no objection to the sole-source recruitment of the project coordinator
who eventually became a 'focal point'.

5.4 Costs andfinancing:

When the project was approved, the Bank estimated contribution to the PEPP was US$3 million, which
amounted for 33% or the total cost. Project funds were to be provided by the PA, the Palestinian private
sector, the Dutch Government and TFGWB.               The Palestinian private sector sponsorship did not
materialize. The Dutch Government contributed with $0.3 million in 1997 but did not extend. External
funds (IDA and Dutch Government grant) covered the cost of the relocation allowances and the contract
with AA for "project management".           The project actually disbursed US$2.6 million, of which
US$2.3 million was from the TFGWB over seven years, with three extensions.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainabili~rating:

Sustainability is rated as unlikely, even on a limited rating of improving skills through training and some
institutional development. This is consistent with the rating of institutional development impact as
negligible (see section 4.5). The weak management of PEPP on all sides (MOF, AA and Bank), resulting
in low numbers of recruits and little PA ownership, prevented the project from building any "critical mass"
on which to build concentrations of skills and institutional development. Success has been too sporadic to
score a higher sustainability rating. Nor has any substantive data base of expatriate resources been built.

This is not to deny the successful experience of some of the expatriates and their legacy. In some cases
expatriates created systems and trained staff in line ministries or agencies to take over their duties once they
concluded their assignments.      Where success stories developed, it was invariably the case that the
expatriate reported directly to the minister enabling greater cooperation and a clearer definition of the
participant's role.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The PEPP did not anticipate any kind of transition to regular operations.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank

7.1Lending:

On balance, across identification, preparation and appraisal, lending is rated unsatisfactory.            At
identification,the Bank was attemptingto innovate a project to addressone of the crucial challengesfaced
by the PA (and any development strategy in conflict affected countries) - institutional capacity building.
However in preparation, as recorded, Bank assistance to the borrower for the design of the project
suffered from several weaknesses. The Bank did not provide the necessary technical means to identify
appropriate PEPP positions across line ministries (lack of criteria, methodology and institutional
assessment tools), to agree through a realistic but participatory decision making process (deficient
institutional setting assuming that Ministers would be technically involved), and to address socio-political
hurdles (inherent pressure on managers' recruitment). At the time of appraisal, the project was
insufficiently designed. The Bank wrongly assumed that top management in ministries had a clear view of
their needs and a capacity to translate them into accuratejob descriptions. Little expertise was provided
from specialists in public sector, administration and civil service reform or human resources. With lack
of ownership and technical input by line ministries and the MOF in these early stages, the Bank team did
not take sufficient corrective measures which slowed down the project (PEPP progress remained dependent
on Ministerial level decisions).

At all stages, missions would have benefited from relevant Bank skill mix and technical knowledge and
experience in the field of human resources, public sector management and institutional capacity building.
Ultimately the lending did not provide the expected outputs and outcomes hoped for in the original (and
unfortunately unrevised) project documentation and is therefore rated unsatisfactory.

7.2Supervision:

Despite an enthusiastic start, on balance, supervision is rated unsatisfactory. First, the Bank failed to
adequately assess the results of the initial Pilot phase, which essentially was used a design and preparation
phase. While the assessment of the pilot was used to expedite some individual contracts it did not lead to
adjustments in key elements of Project implementation, which could have helped the Project meet its
objectives. Second the lack of a mid-term review was a critical omission and a missed opportunity to
address some of the deficienciesof project implementation. Third, problems identified, includingthe lack
of commitment to integrate expatriates in locally headed structures and the critical delays in recruitment
decisions and finalizing PEPP contracts, were not addressed promptly. The Bank could also have
improved the information and sensitization about the project. Considerable effort and resources were
invested in building partnership for private sector co-financing which did not materialize because of the
deteriorating security situation. Fourth, Monitoring of key performance indicators was not clearly provided
in the PSR; especially the key performance indicators were not adjusted to reflect that the scale of the
project had to be reduced as the level of co-financingfell short of expectations.

The Quality Assurance Group assessed overall quality of supervision for 2002-04 as moderately
unsatisfactorybased on two shortcomings: ( I ) the deficient veracity and accuracy of the PSRs (a IS' rating
for 2000-4 and then significant and sudden rating change without clear justification); and: (2) failure to
restructure the project and change the development objectives once conditions on the ground changed
dramatically. The ICR concurs with this rating for the entirety of the project.

7.3Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. This rating is warranted by the reported shortcomings
in preparation, appraisal,and supervision. New initiativesshould be encouraged and are by definition high
riskhigh gain. Given that the Bank was responding to client needs, the Bank should be given every benefit
of the doubt. However, an unsatisfactory rating accuratelyreflectsthe experienceas related by all parties.

Borrower

7.4Preparation.

Borrower preparation is rated unsatisfactory. Borrower commitment to the project preparation was
noticeable with the personal involvement of the Minister of Finance and other Government officials.
However, they did not particularly champion governmental technical expertise to design the project
properly. They relied extensively on AA inputs and therefore on the pilot phase to provide the PA with the
design of the project. The PA demonstrated no concern for addressing the lack of participation of line
ministries,the risk of the private sector funds withdrawals, and the expected pressures on recruitment.

7.5 Government implementationperformance:

The Government implementation was overall unsatisfactory. This rating is warranted by a number of
omissions on the part of the PA to manage implementation of the project. The biggest failure was the
Steering Committee chaired by the Ministry of Finance, and consisting of the Ministers of Economy and
Trade, and Planning and International Cooperation,and two nongovernmental representatives,which was
established to supervise project implementation and was specifically supposed to meet monthly. It is not
clear that the SC met more than once and therefore did not address implementation hurdles before it was
suspended at the beginning of the Intifada (see 5.2). The failure of the Steering Committee to fulfill its
functions according to the original design of the project resulted in the Ministry of Finance making the
decisionswithout consultation with the line ministrieslagencies. The cost of more flexibility was the failure
to establish a professional,transparent, competitive, international system for recruitingexpatriates. Many
of the later recruitments were through sole sourcing. As already reported, establishing such a system was a
shared responsibilitywith the international consultingfirm, AA.

Furthermore, AA was supposed to help the PA in identifying senior management needs, advice on
appropriate institutional structure and stafing within units of participating ministries and agencies, advice
on qualifications for specific positions to be filled and draftjob descriptions. After the termination of AA
contract, the PA failed to achieve any of these stated objectives. MOF in coordination with line
ministrieslagencies also failed to support any sustainability of outcomes.          All of the interviewed
expatriateslministries stated that more time was needed for the consultants to accomplish their tasks,
particularly in the area of institutional capacity building. It appears that the OPP developed by AA after
two years of experience, was never considered,approved or fully implemented by the SC or MOF.

To sum up, the Government did not develop the relevant management attention, methodology, tools and
monitoring and evaluation systems to deliver a return on the project. It was only after repeated pressures
from the Bank and four years after the approval of the project that the Government acted on the first step
and recruited a project coordinator.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The MOPSperformance as implementingagency is rated unsatisfactory (as recorded in section 5.3 and
detailed above in section 7.5).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Overall Borrower performance was unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1.Design and Quality at Entry

Projects in a 'development in conflict' or politically dynamic context have different start-up
considerations to 'normal' projects.          Project design should incorporate sufficient adaptability to
accommodate changing political and contextual realities. Because of start-up difficulties and the lack of
'capacity to manage initial capacity building', a more modest start is indicated for cost-efficient learning
purposes. The PEPP was right to adopt a pilot approach but might have also benefited from a smaller-
scale start such as that employed in the UNDP-funded TOTKEN project.

Such projects should also incorporate a strong monitoring system to adapt to changing
circumstances. Notwithstanding the pilot phase, PEPP design lacked some key features such as consistent
objectives, clear performance indicators, operating procedures and well-defined supervision measures
including a mid-term review. The lack of clarity over development indicatorscontributed to later problems,
including assessments under this JCR. The success of some PEPP recruitments reinforces the need for a
results-based management system which not only measures inputs but also the quality of the outputs
(perhaps standard now but not at the inception of PEPP).

Human resource projects of this kind (where senior staff are 'parachuted in') are both institutionally
sensitive and complex to implement. They require a minimum of client ownership evidenced in,
and backed by, organizational structures, goals and terms of reference in place to receive the
recruits. Meeting these prerequisites would have enabled the PEPP participants to be more productive by
investing more of their time in transferring skills and knowledge to the local staff. Attracting and
integrating managerial recruits into existing or embryonic institutions is sensitive, especially where such
staff are seen as receiving preferential treatment, and requires careful preparation, clear terms of reference
and close monitoring. Using an external agency (or one perceived as such) at the start of such an
initiative was questionable.      PEPP design and subsequent supervision wrongly assumed that the
ministries, in great need of capacity building, were ready and able to identify their precise needs and
translate them into accurate job descriptions. Moreover, the capacity of the ministries to supervise the
project on a case by case basis was probably overestimated.

Expatriate recruitment projects would also be more effective as part of a broader capacity building
strategy based on institutional assessments of need. The absence of an overall framework for
institutional capacity building in West Bank and Gaza at the time of the launching of PEPP should not have
prevented a fuller assessment of institutional capacity needs and building clearer strategic links with the
$23m Bank supported TATF.

High risk projects should build in a risk mitigation strategy. Even if it was justifiable for PEPP to
proceed with an ambitious plan for a high number of senior managers in such a high risk venture, measures
to mitigate such risks or even a cut-off target for non-continuation, should have been specified.

8.2      Implementalion, Supervision and Closure

Given its context, a PEPP-type project requires close management and supervision by all parties to
succeed. There is no substitute for in-country management and ownership. Once delays and inattention set
in, swift and decisive corrective action is required. PEPP was conspicuously missing a mid-term review
where many of the start-up problems could have been addressed and the project revised (or in the worse
case closed). In addition, the hand-overs between each of the TTLs was weak, contributing to delay and
discontinuity in implementation. Finally, there was a lack of clear recording of key decisions and their
rationale.

Operating policies and procedures should be tested during the pilot phase and then reviewed in light
of the lessons learnt. In the case of PEPP, operating policies and procedures were neither drafted nor
discussed until a year and a half after project approval. Whilst it is legitimate to use a pilot period to test a
design, using the pilot to build procedures from scratch caused delay and a vacuum in implementation.

8.3 The learning and ICR process

New ventures should assimilate significant learning for and from all partners. New initiatives for
the Bank, such as PEPP, require comprehensive documentation and extensive learning process
(incomplete filing and sporadic institutional memory over the ten years of project history inhibited
preparation of this ICR). However, future innovative projects of this kind should not be discouraged by a
critical ICR. A PEPP-type project may need to have sub-optimal outcomes, even more than once, to
reach maturity.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


Ministry of Finance- International Relations Department

                                                PEPP ICR
                                    Ministry of Finance Contribution
                                                Summary
                                        (full document in annex 7)
LESSONS LEARNT
    The planning of such a project with motivated objectives as PEPP should be designed in a way that
    takes into full consideration the unstable situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territories. Such
    situation negatively affected the willingness and motivation of expatriate professionals to work and live
    in the Occupied Territories under such living conditions.
    Similar situations could influence the larger feature of the project. For example, the continuous
    Israeli aggression and invasions resulted in recruiting more professionals to serve in the health field in
    order to meet the urgent needs which erupted due to the escalationsin the OPT. Additionally, Israeli
    siege and movement restrictions prevented many Palestinians with special medical needs from
    traveling to receive treatment in neighboring countries and elsewhere, which highlights the urgent
    need of providing such services locally.
    World Bank guidelines should be flexible enough to meet emergency situations. Nonetheless, World
    Bank staff was helpful in coping with the fact that PEPP received fewer applicationsfrom expatriate
    professionals who were still interested in serving in the PA areas,therefore, we had to use the available
    resources through extending number of contracts of expatriates who were already working in the
    occupied territories.
    We believe that special arrangements could be reached between the Bank and the Israeli authorities,
    in order to ensuring better and easier movement restrictions for those who are working under
    developmental projects administered by the Bank.
    Success of such projects counts, to a large extent, on the close and constant supervision of the Bank
    and beneficiaries, and readiness to be flexible in adopting the project to domestic realities, in addition
    to the quick response to the challenged that might be faced.
    Time element should be taken into account, especially with the nature of this project which took
    quite a long time of implementation. Adjustment mechanisms could be helpful, so as to study the
    current status of the project, the surrounding circumstances and its future implication, and the
    required modification to the implementationplan if necessary.
    Improved reportingand monitoring mechanisms should be applied vis-a-vis consulting assignments,
    in order to enhancingthe process of evaluating the coursework.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not available, contribution made in 1997

(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):

NA.

10. Additional Information




                              PEPPTIMELINE AND BACKGROUND




     BACKGROUND




    PROJECT CYCLE




   IMPLEMENTATION


        SUPERVISION

     1. LINE UINISlRlEd

     2.TTL. 8UPERVlSlON

     3. SUPERVISION
     U1SS1ONS




   EXPATRIATES
    IN NUMBERS
     (contncu)

     Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorsJLog Frame Matrix

     Outcome IImpact Indicators:



                                                     I
                                                    1             Projected in last PSR'                ActwULatest Estimate
                                                         1998 19992000 2001 2002 2003 2004      1998 19992000 2001 2002 2003 2004

    - numberof     posilionstargeted for recruitment 22         17    17 na(2)na     na  na
    in each annual period (does not include
     contractextensions)
    - number    of professionals recruited in each       17     22    17 na     na   na  na
    annualperiod
     - number  of professionals recruitedwho fulfill     15     20    15  na    na    na na
    the full period of their contract (does not      I
    includecontract extensions)
     - number   of professionals recruitedwho are        -       11   17  na     na   na na
    offeredand accept a second year of
     employment
     -percentage of professionalsrecruitedwho            75% 75% 75% na         na    na na
     are considered to have performed inthe first
     or second tranche of performance categories
     (highest = 1and lowest = 5)
     - independence,quality    and transparency of       75% 75% 75% na         na    na na
     :he internationalrecruitmentprocess followed
     (rate on the basis of the number of
     .opranked candidatesselected
                                                     I. 1                                      1
     Ppacity Building:                                    1998 19992000 2001 2002 20032004       1998 19992000 2001 2002 2003 2004

     - number   of individuals appointedto act as    '    17     22   17 na      na   na na
     full-time deputies to the expatriate
     professionalsrecruited
     - number   of appointed individualswho              na    13   18 na      na    na na
     replace PEPPparticipanton his departure
     - establishment   and operation of the data        ' 550 2750 8250 na       na   na na
     r
     base on expatriatePalestinianprofessionals
                                                        I
     (number of individuals included) (3)
                                                                                               1                                      /
              Management:                               I 1998 199920002001200220032004          1998 19992000 2001 2002 2003 2004
                                                        i
       number of individual participantsgranted
        IItravel and work permits and mobility
        nsistent with their contracts
       quality of the methodology usedto calculate
       nd pay relocationallowances (proportion of
       ppointmentswithout disputes over levelof
        mpensatwnpercentage)
       managementof projectfinanc~aloperations
       nd SpecialAccount
      highest = 1 and lowest = 5)
       actual disbunement of funds against
     projected disbursements




     (1) All indicators were reduced by 45% from the 'TA to take into account the shortfall in external co-financing which had
     been anticipated but which has failed to materialize in 1997 after effectiveness.
     (2) There were no projections beyond 2000 in the T A or the PSRs. These projections were attached to PSR seq 5, Dec
     2000.
     (3) Given the smaller size of the program the idea of building and maintaining a data base was dropped.


IEnd of project

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                                                . -..-
                                                                                                                    -   -
                                                                                                                               Appraisal     ActuaVLatest    Percentageof
                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                               Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                                                                Component                                                     US$ million    US$ million
                          .......................                                              ----.- -.                 -
                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                   3.oo            0.00     I
 elocation Allowance                                                                                                               4.50            1.70              0.38
   anagement Contract Fees                                                                                                   i     1.50            0.92              61.3
                                                                                        ......              ..-. .....


kotal Baseline Cost
                                                                           --. --.
                                                            ----                 --   --
                                                            Total Project Costs
                                                                                             .-. ....
T   o    t   a                                   l Financing Required
                                                  ..........                 .....-..   --        .




Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements (Appraisal Estimate)(US$ million equivaient)
                                                               _
                                ---                                    - -.....      _        -. ... --                     -
                                                                                                                 - .


                                                                                                            Procurement Method
    Expenditure                                                                                                                                                   Total Cost
                                                                                                                         NCB                1        N.B.F.
                                                                                                                                          nr
                                                                                                                                                                                 ~
11.Works                                                                          0.00          [--030                                 0.00          0.00            0.00
                                                                                                                                      (0.00)        (0.00)       I  (0.00)
                                                              ~-
                                                                   I
2. Goods                                                                                                                               0.00          0.00            0.00
                                                                               (0.00)                                   (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)
                           -                                          -.-            -----
                                                                                               t---
3. Services                                                                       0.00                               - - 0.00          0.00          0.00            0.00
                                                                                                 '                      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)
             .............                                                                            ......
Local Salaries                                                                    0.00                                   0.00          3.00          0.00            3.00
                                                                1              (0.00)           j                       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)
                                                                     . . . .                   ~+........
Relocation allowances                                                             0.00                                   4.50          0.00          0.00            4.50
                                                              _-I .0.00)           i                                    (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)
                                                                 I                                                                                                               1
             ....                                                     - -   .                     ...................
Management Contract                                                                1.50                                  0.00     '    0.00          0.00            1.50
                                                                               (0.00)                                   (0.00)        (0.00)
                                                               ..t
                                                                 I                                                                                  (0.00)         (0.00)
                                            .........                 ..                                                 ...
                                                                                   1.50                                  4.50          3.OO          0.00            9.00
                                                                    1          (0.00)            ,                      (0.00)        (0.00)    I   (0.00)       1  (0.00)

  ProjectCosts by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate)(US$ million equivalent)


                                1
                                I                    ProcurementMethod
        Expenditure category            ICB
                                                        NCB               othersZ      N.B.F.             Total Cost




)/Figuresin parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

u Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
  staff of the project management office. training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
  to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lendingproject funds to local government units.


   Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)



                                                                                                                             I
                                                             I
           Component       I       AppraisalEstimate               ActuaVLatest Estimate       Percentageof Appraisal
                             Bank        Govt.      C&F.     1   Bank       Govt.       CoF.      Bank     Govt.       CoF.
   Local Salaries            0.00         3.00      0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00       0.0       0.0        0.0
   Relocation Allowance       1.50        0.00      3.00         1.60       0.00     1  0.16      106.7      0.0        5.3
   Management Contract        1.50        0.00      0.00                                0.17      49.3
   Fees
                           1
                                                  ---- -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
                                         -- ..-.-- -       -.
                             ~p




Stage of Project Cycle                         No. of Persons and Specialty                      Performance Rating
                                                                                            Implementation Development
                                                                                              Progress       Objective

 IdentificationIPreparation


               07/20/1996             I
               0211011997           I


 AppraisaVNegotiation
               0511411997                         I    ~ TEAM LEADER


 Supervision                                        I
                                                    i

                12/12/1998                       2       TEAM LEADER; PSD                        S               S
                                                         SPECIALIST
                12/03/1999                       2       'TEAM LEADER; TEAM                      U               S
                                                         ASSISTANT
               05118/2000                                PRINCIPLE FIN. ANALYST                  S               S
                12/08/2000                               LEAD FINANCIAL ANALYST                  S               S
               05/04/200 1                               LEAD FINANCIAL ANALYST                  S               S
                1211412001                               LEAD FIN. ANALYSTITTL                   S               S
               05/29/2002                                LEAD FIN. ANALYSTlTTL                   S               S
                10/10/2002                        I i TASK     MANAGER                           S               S
               0413012004                        5     1 TASK TEAM LEADER;                       U               U
                                      I                  PROCUREMENT OFFICER;
                                                         FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                         ANALYST; OPERATION
                                                         ANALYST; PROGRAM
                                                         ASSISTANT

                                                        I
 ICR
                1212112004           !           4       TASK TEAM LEADER;                       U               U
                                                    I
                                      I                  LEAD SOCIAL
                                     i                   DEVELOPMENT
                                                         SPECIALIST; SOCIAL
                                     1                   DEVELOPMENT                                 1
                                                         SPECIALIST; PRIVATE
                                                                   I
L 1.-                                                    SECTOR CONSULTANT
                   .         -

(b)Stafs
                  -.-  . -.----
                        -           /-.___-  ----  . -.        -

                                      -                    ActualILatest Estimate
                                           -.-.-----.--
                                           No. Staffweeks                        us$ ('o:
                                                         na
  Appraisal/Negotiation              i                  na
  Supervision                        1                  na
1 Total                                                 na
                                -.-I
                   ...                                  na
                          . .           -  _._.. .....~.
                                              ._                                         301

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU-Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)


   Macro policies
  Sector Policies
  Physical                           O H O S U O MO N .NA
C]Financial                          O H O S U O MO N .NA
  Institutional Development          O H O S U O MO N ONA
  Environmental                      O H O S U O MO N .NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction         O H O S U O MO N .NA
           Gender                    O H O S U O MO N .NA
           Other (Please speclh)     0H 0SU 0M 0N lNA
  Private sector development         O H O S U O MO N .NA
  Public sector management           O H O S U O MO N ONA
  Other (Please specfi)              O H O S U O MO N ONA

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory,U=Unsatisfactory,HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1Bank performance                          Rating

[X1Lending                                  O H S O S @ U        OHU
[X1 Supervision                             O H S O S @ U        O H U
[X1 Overall                                 O H S O S @ U        OHU

6.2 Borrower performance                      Rating

[XI Preparation                             O H S O S @ U        OHU
[X1 Government implementationperformance    0HS 0S          U 0 HU
[XIImplementation agencyperformance         0HS 0S          U 0 HU
[X1 Overall                                 O H S O S @ U        OHU

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                           Palestinian Expatriate Professional Program (PEPP)



                                      Ministry of Finance Contribution



Project Inception Date: October 08, 1997

Closing Date: December 31,2004

Administrator of the TF:The World Bank

OBJECTIVES
Main objectives of the PEPP included: (i) recruiting the most qualified Palestinian expatriate professionals
to fill certain positions in order to achieve institutional development of the PA ministries and institutions,
through strengthening their management and technical capabilities; and (ii) contribute to the capacity
building of the PA ministries and institutions through identify the suitable qualified individuals and
provide them with training, primarily on-the-job.

CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK
Since its establishment in 1995, the Palestinian .Authority has been facing an increasing load of
responsibilities and obligations, often focused on building modem and well-organized institutions capable
enough to providing better-quality of services to its citizens, and to organize a reliable system in order to
further improve the living standards of the Palestinian people. During its course of actions towards
fulfilling such responsibilities, PA faced an urgent needs for institutional and capacity building of its public
services system, especially that such public system is brought to existence under direct Palestinian
administered for the first time, and also in light of the fact that relatively few people living in West Bank
and Gaza have the required experience in certain fields such as policy making, project management and
other forms of expertise crucial to the development of the public sector.

The Palestinian Expatriate Professional Program was initiated with the kind cooperation and support of the
World Bank, which agreed to provide financial support to assist the PA attract Palestinian expatriates
through increasing the payments offer; a matter that the PA could not do alone in light of its limited
budgetary resources. The main concept behind the PEPP is established on the fact that large number of
Palestinians living abroad enjoy high level of educational and professional skills, and many of them have
certain skills which are most appropriate to meet the PA's needs. Additionally, the salary scale of the
Palestinian Authority's employment is considered to be low vis-a-vis the internationally applied standards;
also the PNA is unable to provide relocation allowances for expatriate professionals, and thus the Bank's
contribution was very vital to the project.

IMPLEMENTATION AND PERFORMANCE
The performance indicator of the initial plan of the proiect was to recruit 100 Palestinian exvatriates in
                                                         . -
various professional fields to serve in different PA ministries and institutions, and consequently assist in
building capacities of such ministries andlor institutions.However, as soon as the implementation process
started, it was faced with number of obstacles which has, by and large, shaped the performance aspects of
the following phases of implementation.

I.  Role of Ministw Of Finance
The Ministry of Finance was the implementing agency on behave of the Palestinian Authority. For a better
operation, a steering committee was thus established with the aim of overseeing the implementation
process. The Committee was chaired by MOF, and included representatives of ministries of National
Economy and Trade, and Planning and International Cooperation. The Committee was supposed to
convene periodically, alas, it was challenged with various Israeli movement restrictions which prevented
such meetings from convening constantly, and therefore the functional capacity of the committee was
brought to a halt.

However, MOF continued to carry on its assigned responsibilitiesaccordingto its capacity as implementing
agency. One main task was recruiting a management firm to serveas the Technical Secretariat (TS) of the
project. Arthur Anderson Firm was thus contracted to serve as the project Technical Secretariat,between
the period mid-1997 till end-2001. Project Coordinator was then appointed to continue with the
management tasks, under the direct supervision of MOF.

11. Methods of Operation
The implementation of the project undertook the following method of operation:
a        Identifying needs of line ministries in coordination with beneficiary ministries and the project
coordinator.
a        Acquire World Bank approval of the list of needed positions;
a        Prepare clear job descriptions for each position by the beneficiary ministries, in coordination
with the project coordinator
a        Prepare long and short lists of interested candidates by the beneficiary ministries, and in
coordination with the project coordinator;
a        Negotiate with the selected expatriates,and sign the contracts.

111. Advertisement
The advertisement process of the vacant posts was initially conducted through sending letters to all
Palestinian representative offices around the world, to advertise within their circles for the requested
position. UN institutions and major NGOs, as well as individual figures, were informed about the
requested positions. Additionally, a special website for PEPP was designed for this purpose (www.mof-
pepp.com.

ACHIEVEMENTS
The allocated budget for PEPP consisted of US$3,000,000credit from IDA, in addition to US$322,000 as a
grant from the Netherlands. Total disbursement by IDA as will as Ministries is US$2,626,245.




  rofessional Services -.~                                         1,862,797
                                      ~




                                                7  -..



~onsultantsServices
                  ----- -..-                                        763,448
                         -
                                          - - -       --_-_

Disbursement under Professional Services category covered Expatriates, Auditing, PEPP coordinator and
general expenses. The amount under Consultants Services category was utilized to cover the costs of
hiring project technical secretariat,from project launching to December 31, 2001.

Such amounts were utilized to hire a total of (18) expatriate, under a total of 36 contracts in various
required fields, to work with key ministries and institutions of the PA, including the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MOEHE), Ministry of
Housing, Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC), Palestinian Broadcasting
Cooperation (PBC), Palestinian Monetary Authority (PMA).


Ministry of Finance
         MOF contract with Mr. Hilal Salah, to serve as Chief Internal AuditorRinancial Controller
(CWFC) at the Ministry. Mr. Salah's first contract was for one year, starting from 1 September 2002 up
till 30 August 2003. The contract, however, was extended for four additional months, i.e. up till 31
December 2003. Due to the need of Mr. Hilal Salah's services, his contract was extended from 1 February
2004 until 31 May 2004.

         MOF also contracted Mr. Husni Al Hassan to work as Consultant for the General Debt
Department at MOF. Four contracts has been signed with Mr. Hassan, the last contract ended by end of
December 2004.

         MOF hired Mr. Farouk Al Asali to work as Manager of Debt Management Department. Mr.
Asali started working at the ministry in 1 December 1999 and up till 28 February 2001, under two
contracts.

Ministry of Health (MOH)
         During the implementation of the project, Ministry of Health used the service of five expatriate
professionals to work at the ministry.

         Dr. Jihad Abu Daia was hired to work at MOH as Head of the Pediatric Surgery Unit at the
European Gaza Hospital (EGH).

         Dr. Nebal Shaath: was hired by MOH to work as Head of orthopedic Surgery at EGH. Dr.
Shaath first contract started on December 2000 for one year. The contract was extended twice, each for
one year. Dr. Shaath closed his contract on June 2003.

         Dr. Durgham Abu Ramadan was contracted to work as Chief of CardiacISurgery Department at
Ramallah Hospital. His first contract started on February 2000, the contract was renewed four times. His
recent contract ended on 31 December 2004.

         Dr. Mohammad Absy was hired to work as a nephrologist specialist. His contract was for the
period from 1 April 2000 up till 31 March 2001.

Dr. Ibrahim K. Lada'a was hired to work as ENT Consultant at EGH under two-month contract.

Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation (PBC)
         The PBC hired Mr. Abdelfattah Toukan to work as Project Director at the International
Relations Department under a one-year contract, starting from 5 September 2000 till 4 September 2001.

Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC)
         MOPIC hired Dr. Ghassan Qadah to work as the Head of Government Computer Center (GCC)
from I January 200 1 until 31 December 200 1.

Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MOEHE)
        MOEHE hired Dr. Basima Ahmad on one-year contract, to work as Director of Fellowships and
Endowments. Dr. Ahmad's contract started on 23 December 2000 until 22 December 2001.

        The ministry also hired Mr. lskandar Najjar on one-year contract to work as a Consultant at Al
Quds University. The first contract had ended by 30 June 2004, and was extended to end of December
2004.

Bethlehem 2000 Project
        Mr. Munib Toukan was hired to work as Director General for Event Celebration and Public
Relations, for the period 2 1 August 1998 until 31 March 2000.

        Mr. Yousef Darras was hired for one year to work as Director General of Finance and
Marketing, from I0 August 1998 until 9 August 1999.

Ministry of Housing:
        Mr. Abdelaziz Tahboub was hired to work as Acting Director General of the Supervising
Department, from 3 January 1999 until 30 April 2001..

Palestinian Monetary Authority
        The Authority hired Mr. Moosa Salman to work as Senior Manager of the Bank Supervision
Department for the period 1 November 1998 up till 31 October 2000.

        Mr. Mohammed Abu Habsa was contracted for the period I April 2003 up till 31 March 2004 to
work as Manager for the Banking Supervision Department his contract was extended to December 31,
2004


Ministry of National Economy
        The Ministry hired Dr. Ohan Balian to work as Economic Consultant for the period from 1
August 2004 until 31 December 2004.

        In addition Ministry of Finance hired Mr. Muhamed Naja to serve as PEPP coordinator from
January 2002 to end of October, 2003

Following is detailed list of benefited ministries and institutions, number of consultants, and total amount
disbursed:

                     --
                - -
                  --     . ...-.------- --  --.- -. .- . .- --.-
                                                            -
                                                                               Date: from - to
                         --.--- .-.-              -




                                                                           01/09/2003-3 111212003
                 .. .-
                   --      --     -.       ----       --...-
                                                                            01/02/2004-3 1/5/2004
                      .--~
                         --                          --
 UB TOTAL                                                      259,200
  r. Husni Abdallah Al Hassan(4 contracts)                      23.000     01/07/2001-30/06/2002

                                  --- ----
                                      -

                                                              61,742.24  01101/2002-30/10/2003
                -----.--             -

                                                              61,742.24
             ------    ---- ---  - -           -

 r. Farouk El-Asali (2 contracts)                                        01/12/1999-30/11/2000




                                                          I
SUBTOTAL                                                       16,918
                                    -.
                                                               54,000    30112/2000-29/12/2001
                                               -
Dr. Jehad Abu Daia (4 contracts) .
                              -    - -- - - --
                                                      - t
                                                               54,000    3011212001-2911212002
                               -  . - -      -        -t--
                                                               24,000    3011212002-29/06/2003
                                                          I_--
                                                              27,000.00  18/08/2003-17/06/2004
                              --- -    -     -      -
SUBTOTAL                                                       159,000
                      -  -- -- --- ---- -             -
                                                               74,640    16112/2000-15112/2001
Dr. Nebal Shaath (3--
                    contracts)
             -- -              -------               -  ,


                                                          I    74,640    16/12/2001-15/12/2002
               -----
                                  --       --.
                                                               37,320     1511212002-14/06/2003
                  .                         - --
SUBTOTAL                                                       186,600


                  Ramadan(4 contracts)
            - --.-------..-.              ---
                      -                             --.
                                                               81,600    01/02/200 1-31/03/2002
                   - -~ -
                                                         1-    81,600    01/04/2002-31/03/2003




 r. Mohammad Absy
                --      .     ----       --- . .....

                                - -



                 --  - ---- -- --
                              -
  r. Iskandar El Najjar(2 contracts)                    36,000        01/07/2003-30/06/2004
                  - -- . .- -- -
                    -            -       - ...- -
                                                       18,000.00      01/07/2004-3111212004




  r. Youssef Darras




                  -                          .... --
                    ~




                 Abu Habsa(2 contracts)
                 --- --.-.---.-.- -- -
                                      ---  ...----


/SUB                                          1-
      TOTAL                                          I 115.500      1

PEPP audit in^:
All project funds, including the Special Accounts, of the PEPP project were audited, on annual
bas;,  by an independent auditors ihat was acceptable to IDA.

Audit activities were carried out in compliance with international auditing standards, including tests and
controls. In addition, the auditing consultant has audited all Statement of Expenditure, which gives
reference to all disbursement orders of the project. In conjunction with audit activities of the project's
financial statements, the auditing firm also audited and reviewed the activities of the Special Accounts
associated with the project. Auditor's last report covered the period ending January 31,2004.

INFLUENCING FACTORS
The implementation process of the PEPP faced number of influencing factors, above all was the continuous
Israeli invasions and attacks taking place in the occupied territories on daily basis, in addition to the
ongoing closures and movement restrictions on goods and personnel which resulted in hindering the
implementation process and creating unexpected obstacles facing hiring additional expatriates.

I. Situation in the OPT
Situation in the occupied territories highly affected the level of competency, since the implementation of
some aspects of the project were not exclusively in compliance with the related terms of reference,
particularly with regards to maintaining the IDA guidelines for the selectionof consultantson the basis of an
internationally diversified competitive process. MOF and its counterparts, however, put lots of effort to
ensure that the implementation process goes in accordance with the technicalities of the project as much as
possible.

The deterioration of the situation in the OPT, and the escalation of the long-lasting Israeli closures and
restrictions over movements of the Palestinians within PA areas, resulted in obstructing and complicating
the work of the PEPP Steering Committee (SC), in the sense that most SC members were unable to
participate in the SC meetings, which had a major negative impact over the Committee.

1I.LimitedNumber of Expatriates
As previously highlighted, the initial plan was to recruit approximately 100 expatriate professionals to
serve in the PA areas. The dramatic deterioration of the situation and the existing Israeli movement
restrictions and obstacles further complicated the process of issuing visas to expatriates with Palestinian
origins.

As a result, PEPP management was unfortunately incapable to comprehensivelyimplement the World Bank
recruitment conditions, which indicates that at least three candidates should apply for the same post before
the final appointment of one of them.

111.     Capacity Building Obstacles
One of the main goals of the PEPP project is using the expertise of the hired expatriate professionals to
contribute to the capacity building of the PA ministries and institutions,through providing suitable training
to qualified individuals, in order to enable them take over the tasks of the expatriates when they leave back
to their countries. Expatriate professionals, particularly those who worked at the Ministry of Health, were
unable to provide high level of training to local doctors. They did, however, provided certain level of
training, basically on-the-job training to the associate doctors during operations and surgeries. This is
attributed to the fact that the number of expatriate professionals who were able to work at MOF was very
limited compared with the actual professional needs of the Ministry. Additionally, the Ministry of Health is
not equipped enough to facilitate such critical training missions.

LESSONS LEARNT
The planning of such a project with motivated objectives as PEPP was, should be designed in a way that
takes into full consideration the unstable situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territories. Such situation
negatively affected the willingness and motivation of expatriate professionals to work and live in the
Occupied Territories under such living conditions.

Similar situations could influence the larger feature of the project. For example, the continuous Israeli
aggression and invasions resulted in recruiting more professionals to serve in the health field in order to
meet the urgent needs which erupted due to the escalations in the OPT. Additionally, Israeli siege and
movement restrictions prevented many Palestinians with special medical needs from traveling to receive
treatment in neighboring countries and elsewhere, which highlights the urgent need of providing such
services locally.

World Bank guidelines should be flexible enough to meet emergency situations. Nonetheless, World Bank
staff were helpful in coping with the fact that PEPP received fewer applications from expatriate
professionals who were still interested in serving in the PA areas, therefore, we had to use the available
resources through extending number of contracts of expatriates who were already working in the occupied
territories.

We believe that special arrangements could be reached between the Bank and the Israeli authorities, in
order to ensuring better and easier movement restrictions for those who are working under developmental
projects administered by the Bank.

Success of such projects counts, to a large extent, on the close and constant supervision of the Bank and
beneficiaries,and readiness to be flexible in adoptingthe project to domestic realities, in addition to the quick
response to the challenged that might be faced.

Time element should be taken into account, especially with the nature of this project which took quite a
long time of implementation. Adjustment mechanisms could be helpful, so as to study the current status of
the project, the surrounding circumstances and its future implication, and the required modification to the
implementation plan if necessary.

Improved reporting and monitoring mechanisms should be applied vis-a-vis consulting assignments, in
order to enhancing the process of evaluatingthe coursework.

