Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF027041
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Palestinian Expatriate Professional Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (Acting as Administrator of 
the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank)
and
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
Dated October 8, 1997
TF027041
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 1997, between PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust 
Fund for Gaza and West Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 
and IDA 93-7, as amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and as further amended by 
Resolution No. 96-11 and IDA 96-7, of the Executive Directors of the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association 
(the Trust Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on 
February 3, 1997, to, inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of ninety 
million dollars ($90,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank (the West Bank);
(B)
the Palestinian Liberation Organization and the Government of the State 
of Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, inter alia, 
sets out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank (the 
Interim Agreement);
(C)
under the Interim Agreement, the parties thereto agreed to the 
establishment of a Palestinian Interim Self-Governing Authority (the Palestinian 
Authority or PA);
Page  2
(D)
Section 5 (b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestinian Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases 
described thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority;
(E)
the PA has requested the Administrator to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project);
(F)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Welfare Association a grant (the 
WA Grant) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to US$3,000,000 to assist in the 
financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement between 
the Borrower and the Association (the WA Grant Agreement); and
(G)
the Association has agreed to enter with the Welfare Association into an 
agreement (the WA Grant Administration Agreement) pursuant to which the Association 
shall, inter alia, administer the WA Grant on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the WA Grant Administration Agreement;
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower, for the benefit of the PA, upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Palestinian Council for Development 
and Reconstruction, dated September 7, 1994, relating to the Emergency Rehabilitation 
Project (TF 026066 GZ), with the following modifications thereto (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Administrator or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision 
of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
(b)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator 
determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (c) 
at any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the 
Administrator to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the 
Page  3
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the 
Credit Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(b)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the PA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term shall include all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the WA Grant may be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and 
the WA Grant. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two (2) special deposit accounts, the first in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (the Credit Special Account) and the second 
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the WA Grant (the WA 
Special Account), in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Administrator, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Association shall not be obligated to make any payment under the WA 
Grant Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose from 
the Welfare Association pursuant to the WA Grant Administration Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PA to pay to the Administrator a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Page  4
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall cause the PA to pay to the Administrator a 
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall cause the PA to repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 
commencing December 1, 2007, and ending June 1, 2037. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on June 1, 2017, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through the PA, with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and technical practices and in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time by mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Administrator, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit and of the WA Grant 
available to the PA under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the PA, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Administrator;
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the PA to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of the PA therein set 
forth, shall cause the PA: (i) to take all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PA to 
carry out the Project; and (ii) not to take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with its ability to carry out the Project; and
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the WA Grant, and, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit and the WA Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3, and 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause the PA to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the PA and the 
Administrator, a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; 
and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Page  5
the PA on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PA to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the PA responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the PA to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the WA Grant were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall cause the PA to:
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
disbursement out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the WA 
Grant was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that, subject to paragraph (b) of this 
Section, the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Administrator that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
Page  6
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: (a) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and the PA; and (b) the amount of the WA Grant has been 
deposited in the account specified by the Administrator in accordance with the 
provisions of the WA Grant Administration Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized and ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of the Borrower and the PA and is legally binding upon the borrower and PA in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. In the event that the Welfare Association or the Administrator 
terminate the functions of the Administrator in accordance with the terms of the WA 
Grant Administration Agreement, the Administrator shall notify the Borrower promptly 
of this event. Thereafter, further disbursements of the WA Grant shall be made 
pursuant to such other arrangements as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and 
the Welfare Association.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the PA is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Palestine Liberation Organization
c/o The Palestinian Authority 
Gaza City
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ramallah as of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
By /s/ Mohammed Z. Nashashibi
Member of Executive Committee, PLO
Minister of Finance
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
By /s/ Joseph P. Saba
Country Director and Resident Representative
West Bank/Gaza Program
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the WA Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the WA Grant, the allocation of the amounts thereof to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
 Amount of the
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
  WA Grant
(Expressed in
(Expressed in
   % of
   Dollar
   Dollar
Expenditures
Category
  Equivalent)
 (Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Professional 
    1,950,000
  2,550,000
100%
Services
(2)
Consultants’
    1,050,000
    450,000
100%
Services
TOTALS
    3,000,000
  3,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$100,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date, 
but after May 13, 1997.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals of the Credit and the WA Grant to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
4.
Each application by the Borrower, for withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request 
to withdraw funds out of the proceeds of the Credit and the WA Grant, and the funds to 
be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by the Administrator, 
as nearly as practicable, in the circumstances, between the Credit and the WA Grant in 
such ratio as, from time to time, shall be agreed between the Administrator and the 
Welfare Association and specified by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to upgrade the institutional capability of the 
Borrower’s administration.
Page  8
The Project consists of the following part, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Carrying out a program to establish efficient administrative structures and 
improve the quality of management and technical skills in key ministries and agencies 
through the provision of management and technical experts.
*     *     *     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 
2.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consultants, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (a) 
of this Agreement.
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, with resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Administrator, a Steering Committee comprised of one 
representative of the Borrower’s Ministries of Economy and Trade, Finance, and 
Planning and International Cooperation, and one representative of each of the private 
sector and non-governmental organizations, to be responsible for the oversight of 
Project implementation and the provision of policy guidance thereunder; (b) employ, in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and maintain 
the services of a consulting firm, with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Administrator, to assist in the carrying out of the Project, including in the 
preparation and application of the international search and recruitment process 
referred to in paragraph 2 below, and to act as a Technical Secretariat to the 
Steering Committee referred to in subparagraph (a) above.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that all management and technical experts to be 
employed under the Project shall be identified and recruited on the basis of quarterly 
Page  9
work plans and pursuant to a competitive and transparent international search and 
recruitment process, developed with the assistance of the consulting firm referred to 
in paragraph 1 (b) above, and acceptable to the Administrator.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an on-going basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator: (i) on a quarterly basis until completion of the 
Project, commencing January 1, 1998, a report, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) above, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period of three 
(3) months preceding the date of such report, and (ii) on or about May 31, 1998, an 
interim report, integrating the data and other information contained in the reports 
prepared pursuant to subparagraph (b) (i) above, on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Project during the period preceding the date thereof and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure  the efficient carrying out of the Project during the 
period following such date; and (c) review with the Administrator each such report, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of such report and the Administrator’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the WA Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
in respect of the Credit Special Account, and an amount equivalent to $300,000 in 
respect of the WA Grant Special Account, to be withdrawn, respectively, from the 
Credit Account and the WA Grant Account (the Accounts) and deposited into the 
respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, 
however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation for each of the Special Accounts shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to $150,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Accounts, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $600,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation, and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account, 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, on the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Accounts and deposit in the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall 
specify.
Page  10
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Accounts and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Accounts under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Accounts in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Accounts pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the WA Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Accounts of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit and the WA Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Administrator 
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Page  11
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Accounts for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
