Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICUIL USE ONLY
ReNm No. P-3914--HI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERHATIONAL DEVELOPMENIT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 23.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MLAWI
FOR A
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
January 28, 1985
Thi d_oum eU    s restrted diuuibdm md -y be used by reiimt way i the ierformne dI
thew offidl due. Its conteaot may *M othrwie be discsoed  ithou Word lh.k anthoriw.



-a  EQUPIALES
Currency Units             =           Malawi Kwacha (PM) and
Tambala
US$1.00                                MK 1.33
MR 1.00                    =           USS0.75
A33EVIATIONS AM ACRONYMS
ADDS        Agricaltural Development Divisions
ADMARC      Agricultural Development and Markering Corporation
ARC         Agrictiltural Research Council
ARTs        Adaptive Research Teams
CARO        Chief Agricultural Research Officer
DAR         Deparrment of Agricultural Research
ICB         Tuternational Competitive Bidding
INDEBANR    Ilvesrment and Development Bank of Malavi
LCB         Loec-l Competitive Bidding
NSRC        Ratiotnal Research Coordinator
NRD?        National Rural Development Program
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



MALAWI             FOR omCIL USE ONLY
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CCREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrover:           Republic of Malawi.
Beneficiary:        Department of Agricultural Research,
Ministry of Agricul ure.
Amount:             SDR 23.3 million (US$23.8 million).
Terms:              Standard.
Project             The proposed project would initiate a long-term insti-
Description:      tutional development program which aims to improve the
focus and quality of Nalavi's smallholder-oriented
agricultural research program, strengthen critical
linkages, particularly between research findings and
extension recommendations, and improve the efficiency
and economy of ongoing activities. It will put into
place one of the essential prerequisites for further
increases in smallholder output. Project components
would include: Mi) creation of an Agricultural
Research Council to advise on priorities and to produce
a Master Plan for agricultural research; (ii) reduction
of Department of Agricultural Research's (DAR) station
network and improvement in physical facilities,;
(iii) reorganization of DAR, and management and systems
improvements; (iv) staff development; (v) intensified
collaboration with International and Regional Agricul-
tural Research Centers and introduction of a contract
research program; (vi) establishment of adaptive
research teams and research extension workshops; and
(vii) largely consequent on the scale-back in DAR's
infrastructure, a reduction in running costs of ongoing
activities, and reallocation of budgeting proceeds to
sustain the proposed new activities. The project pro-
vides for civU1 works; equipment, furniture, vehicles;
staff relocation; technical assistance and training;
and operating co.;ts.
Benefits and        The ultimate beneficiaries of the project would be
Risks:            Nalawi's smallholders through expected improvement to
productivity and incomes, while enhancing the cost-
effectiveness of Malawi's agricultural research pro-
gram. The project faces no special risks, although
timely realization of economies in the ongoing DAR
program would depend on the pace of civil works con-
struction and consequent consolidation of DAR's infra-
structure. Long-term benefits depend chiefly on the
Government's willingness, at a minimum, to sustain the
real value of its current contribution to DAR's
operating costs. Such assurances are being sought from
the Government.
Tbisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of  w rofical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



Estimated
Costs:                                          (USS millions)
Local       Foreign       Total
Agricultural Research Council            0.1           0.7          0.8
DAR Infrastructure Consolidation
and Improvement                        4.5           7.3         11.8a/
DAR Management and Systems
Improvements                           0.2           2.5          2.7a/
DAR Staff Developtent                    0.3           7.0          7.3a/
Research Collaboration and
Contract Research                      0.1           0.6          0.7
Research-Extension Linkages              0.4           1.8          2.2
DAR Ongoing Program                      7.6           4.6         12.2
Base Cost                             13.2          24.5         37.7
Physical Contingencies                   0.8           2.0          2.8
Price Contingencies                      3.7           5.7          9.4
Total Project Costs b/                17.7          32.2         49.9
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign       Total
Government                            10.1           6.8         16.9
USAID                                   .2           9.0          9.2
IDA                                    7.4         16.4          23.8
Total                            17.7         32.2          49.9
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 (US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year      1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Annual               1.8    5.5    7.6    5.6    2.5    0.8
Cumulative           1.8    7.3   14.9  20.5   23.0   23.8
Rate of
Return:           Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 5295-MAl dated January 24, 1985.
Hap:                IBRD No. 18287 - Agricultural Research Station Network.
a/ Including Project Preparation Facility advance of USS583,500 approved
in November 1984
b/ Inclusive of taxes and duties which are negligible.



I [ERMTONAL DEmvELOPMU  ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECENDATION OF THE PRRSIUKNI
TO TER MEECUTIVE DIRECTOtS
ON A PROPOSED CRDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF NATAR
FOR A NATIONAL        RA   RESARC  PRWEEI
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Fepublic of Malawi for SDR 23.3 million (US$23.8 million
equivalent) for a National Agricultural Research Project. The credit would
be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOTY
2.        A report entitled -Malawi: Growth and Structural Change, A Basic
Report (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. Annexes to the report were
distributed on June 26, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about 6.6
million people in 1983) landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a
climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$210 and has been
identified by the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries,
its progress since independence in 1964, measured against its natural
resources, has been significant. Up until 1979 there was mnstly steady
growth. In 1980 and 1981 major economic difficulties were encountered, but
a recovery appears to have begun in 1982 and 1983. GDP at constant prices
grew at an average annual rate or 6 percent between 1964 and 1979. During
the same period, real growth of estate agriculture and manufacturing
exceeded 10 percent per annum and export volume grew at 4.5 percent per
annum. A steadily increasing investment rate (rising from 9 percent of GDP
at independence to 33 percent in 1979) has been supported by heavy inflows
of official and private external capital as well as by a significant
increase in domestic savings (from virtually nil in 1964 to 14 percent of
GDP in 1979).
5.        Malawi's past development success has been due largely to the
realistic and purposeful policies of the Government. Public investment has
been intended primarily to support private initiative in the directly
productive sectors by providing infrastructure, public utilities and
support services. The Government has emphasized smallholder agriculture,
as about 90 percent of the population lives in the rural areas and depends
on agriculture for its livelihood. The Government has thus undertaken a
number of integrated rural development projects and, in the late 19708,
embarked on the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), an ambitious



20-year program for extending services to smallbolders countrywide. The
Government's decision to emphasize directly productive sectors and infra-
structure has resulted in relatively slower development of social
services. Over the past 10 years, 7 percent of the Government's develop-
ment budget has been spent on health, education and community development,
compared to 22 percent on natural resources and 39 percent on communi-
cation.
6.        Malawi's economy is heavily dependent on three primary commodity
exports (tobacco, tea, and sugar) and is highly vulnerable to international
price fluctuations. Since 1974, there have been periodic balance of pay-
ments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a) rapid escalation
in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate and capital goods;
(b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, sugar and tea; and (c)
significantly higher costs of transport for exports and imports owing to
rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in Mozambique, and disrup-
tions of overland transport.
7.        While the Government successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable. For reasons mostly outside
Malawi's control, the deficits in both the trade and non-factor services
grew rapidly until 1980. Between 1977-80 Malawi's terms of trade fell by
40 percent. While export prices declined by 16 percent (due mainly to
falling tea and tobacco prices), import prices rose by 39 percent, partly
because of the steep increase in prices of petroleum products. The
petroleum import bill more than doubled, raising its share in total imports
from 8.5 percent in 1977 to more than 16 percent in 1983. In 1980 and
1981, agricultural production suffered from recurring drought, reducing
export volumes and necessitating large imports of maize, a commodity in
which Malawi had been self-sufficient during most of the 1970s. Finally,
disruptions of the rail transport system through Mozambique have forced
Malawi to use more costly alternative routes as principal means of trans-
port for exports and imports. As a result of these developments Malawi's
current account deficit deteriorated sharply. From an annual average of
about 8-9 percent of GDP in the mid-1970s, it rose to 18 percent in 1978
and 23 percent in 1979 before falling to 19 percent in 1980, 12 percent in
1981, 8.3 percent in 1982 and 11.5 percent in 1983. Capital inflows did
not cover current account deficits and foreign exchange reserves fell from
the equivalent of over five months of imports to less than two months
between 1977-83.
8.        Malawi's fiscal position also seriously deteriorated.  From
independence through 1977/78, government expenditures and revenues expanded
roughly in line with the increases in GDP, and deficits rarely exceeded
eight or nine percent of GDP. In the past four years, expenditure growth
has outstripped the increase in revenues and the share of government
deficits in GDP averaged 15.6 percent in 1978-81. The underlying cause of
these deficits was the increase in government expenditure to around 35
percent of GDP compared to an average 26 percent for the previous six
years. Increases in domestic borrowing, mainly from the monetary system,
and in foreign borrowing, partly on commercial terms, were required to
finance the rising budget deficits. Inflationary pressures grew and prices



rose at an average rate of 13 percent per annum in the first four years of
the 1980s, well above the average of 9 percent from 1973-79.
9.        Because of the Government's limited ability to mobilize
resources, the appreciable expansion of Malawi's development program over
the past decade has been financed in large part by increased public capital
inflows. The net contribution from foreign official sources to the
financing of public investment increased from US$17 million in FY68, to
about US$105 million in FY82, of which about US$48 million were grants.
However, borrowing on commercial terms accounted for about 50 percent of
total borrowing from 1979-81.
10.       The Government and the IMF agreed to a new standby program for
SDR 22 million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aimed at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involved phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on government external commercial borrowing. The standby was
implemented satisfactorily, and the Government and the IMF concluded a new
multi-year program, and a three year Extended Fund Facility was approved in
September 1983 and has been implemented successfully so far. As part of
the Extended Fund Facility, the Government devalued the kwacha against the
SDR by 12 percent in September 1983 and switched to a basket of currencies
on January 1984.
11.       These measures are complemented by a medium-term structural
adjustment program on which the Government embarked in 1981. The program's
principal objectives are to diversify Malawi's export base, encourage
efficient import substitution, adjust income policies, improve the public
sector's financial performance and strengthen economic planning and
monitoring. The Bank's first structural adjustment loan for US$45 million
was made in June 1981. After initial difficulties, good progress was made
in implementing the Government's adjustment program: additional funds were
allocated to the agricultural sector, agricultural prices were adjusted,
public utility tariffs increased and the budget for 1982-83 was trimmed,
with sufficient resources provided for major development sectors. The
second tranche was released in April 1982. However, during 1982 the
country's efforts were set back by increased disruption of the traditional
transport routes and continued depressed demand for Malawi's export
products. Nevertheless, the country was able to hold its current account
deficit to 11.3 percent of GDP in 1983, reduce the budgetary deficit for
FY1983 to 9 percent of GDP, and meet its IMF standby borrowing ceilings.
GDP growth recovered to 2.6 percent, and 4.4 percent, respectively in 1982
and 1983. External grants and net capital inflow continued to fall and
despite a rescheduling of its external debt, net asset transfers have
fallen sharply since 1980. Malawi's economic performance and credit-
worthiness are expected to continue to improve in the medium term if the
structural adjustment program is implemented successfully, the external
transport and terms of trade conditions do not deteriorate further, and the
fall in foreign asset flows is reversed.



- 4 -
12.       In December 1983, a second structural adjustment operation was
approved by the Board. The program supported by SAL II builds on the
progress made under SAL I and strengthens areas not covered in the first
program or where implementation was not completely satisfactory. Imple-
mentation of SAL II moved well in many facets such as the strengthening of
agricultural marketing, setting agricultural prices, the price liberaliza-
tion program, budgetary allocations, revenue measures and development of an
estate credit project. After initial delays, the Government has now taken
satisfactory steps in developing a rationalization plan for Press Holdings,
projecting revenues and expenditures, developing a three year investment
program, and revising the 1984/85 development budget. The second tranche
was released on November 21, 1984.
13.       By the end of 1983, Nalawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$705 million. In late 1982, Malawi rescheduled both
its official and commercial debts. Otherwise its debt servicing, including
repayments to the IMF, would have amounted to over US$130 million,
equivalent to over 40 percent of exports of goods and services. This
compares to a level of about 10 percent in the mid-1970s. A second year of
rescheduling was agreed to in October of 1983, keeping the debt service
ratio to 26.7 percent in 1983. Although the Government has indicated that
it will not be asking for any further rescheduling, the debt service ratio
is expecced to remain at 25-30 percent over the next few years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERUTIOI IN NALADq
14.       Over the past 18 years, Malawi has received 31 IDA credits and
one Special Fund credit totalling about US$414 million and seven Bank loans
totalling US$93 million, of which two were on third window terms. Of the
Bank Group assistance, some US$123 million (24 percent) was for agricul-
ture, US$108 million (21 percent) for education, US$114 million (22
percent) for roads, US$100 million (20 percent) for structural adjustment,
US$39 million (8 percent) for power, US$11 million (2 percent) for water,
and the balance of US$12.0 million (2 percent) for health, development
finance and technical assistance. The first Bank loan to Malawi was made
on third window terms in June 1976 and the first standard Bank loan in
April 1977. The most recent operations were a US$13.1 million equivalent
credit, a US$13.8 million equivalent Special Fund credit and a US$18.0
million loan for a fifth highways project; a US$55.0 million equivalent
credit for a second structural adjustment project and a US$1.5 million
equivalent credit for a related technical assistance project. In addition,
a US$15.0 million credit for an urban project was approved on November 27,
1984. IFC's investment in Malawi consists of a loan of US$10.8 million for
a textile mill, arother of US$9.9 million for a sugar mill, a US$0.6 mil-
lion equity investment in the Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
(INDEBANK) and a US$2.0 million loan to Malawi Motels Limited for tourism.
A US$300,000 equity investment and a loan of US$1.9 million for the pro-
duction of ethanol from molasses were approved in July 1980, and a US$0.5
million equity subscription and US$1.8 million loan investment in the
Viphya Plywoods and Allied Industries United were approved in August 1984.
A Summary Statement of Bank Group Operations is provided in Annex II.



Bank Lending Strategy
15.       During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be designed to help Malawi restructure its economy, especially
to help improve agricultural productivity, dealing with the transport prob-
lem in order to improve the balance of payments and strengthening the
effectiveness and efficiency of government and other development institu-
tions. A longer run but equally urgent need is to help Malawi develop its
human resource potential by addressing the problems of population growth,
health and Qducation. The remainder of the 1980s are likely to be a diffi-
cult time for land-locked Malawi which must continue its adjustments which
it began with its two structural adjustment programs in the early 1980s.
Investment and savings levels will need to increase as a proportion of GDP,
the current account and budgetary deficits will have to be further reduced,
export promotion and diversification will need to go forward and recurrent
expenditure levels in key development agencies bhould be raised if past
investments are to be utilized full3.  These measures will have to be
complemented by policy reforms in agriculture and industry to further
increase the production and indust:-ial incentives. A third structural
adjustment loan embodying these reforms is planned for FY 1986. It will
help the Government increase the efficiency in the productive sectors,
becter mobilize and manage resources and improve development administration
and the capacity for policy formulation.
16.       Experience to date in Malawi has demonstrated that a combination
of appropriate policies and sufficient external assistance channelled into
productive investments can generate sustained growth rate in per capita
income. The Government's medium-term public investment program requires
further support in agriculture, transportation, education, population/
health and water supply as well as a second line of credit to INDEBANK to
provide mediumrterm finance for diversification and agro-industrial invest-
ment. These Bank-financed investments will complement the Government's
structural adjustment program providing the necessary technical, financial
and institutional support to enable Malawi further to increase snallholder
productivity, maximize the effectiveness of its external transport routes
(particularly the northern route), rationalize and prioritize investments
in the education and water sectors and address the single most pressing
issue for Malawi's long-term future, the very high rate of population
growth. All of these programs will be co-financed thereby helping Malawi
to obtain some of the additional external financing it needs to reach its
modest GDP growth targets.
17.       The Bank Group's economic sector work will continue to build an
analytical base for discussions with the Government on the key development
issues. The major points of focus will remain: how to increase produc-
tivity in the economy; how to improve the financial performance of the
public sector; how to improve the management of the economy and how to slow
the rate of population growth. In agriculture we will conclude the study
on diversification and the steps needed to help broaden the export base of
the economy; we will study the whole question of land utilization and what
can be done to improve the productivity of this scarce resource and we will
be financing studies on livestock, smallholder irrigation and management
and training in the Agriculture Ministry. In the transport sector we will



- 6 -
finish the current study on external transport this year and also carry out
an updating of the situation in this critical sector in FY87. In the
social sectors, we will complete this year a study of the dynamics of
population growth, its implications for the economy and the recommended
development assistance strategy for the sector. In education we will
study the training needs in the economy with special emphasis on the
agriculture, health and transport sectors. These studies will provide the
basis for mobilizing external assistance.
18.       During the next three years two Country Economic Memoranda will
be completed and a special study on the institutional aspects of develop-
ment carried out. The CEM, which is now under preparation, will focus on
the medium-term resource needs and availabilities including recurrent cost
requirements. The CEM planned for FY1987 will up-date our knowledge of the
economy and the implementation of the SALs. The special economic study
will look at the shortcomings in the Government's institutions and
bureaucratic system which have led to some of the structural weaknesses in
the economy. This study is expected to be finished in FY1986.
External Debt
19.       The Bank Group's share of Malawi's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of 1982 was about 36 percent (IBRD: 11 percent,
IDA: 25 percent), and its share in debt service was about nine percent.
Because Malawi is one of the least developed countries, many other donors
give aid on grant terms. Other major donors have been the United Kingdom,
the Federal Republic of Germany, the European Economic Community and the
African Development Bank.
Disbursements
20.       Disbursements of the Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi
generally have kept close to schedule and compare favorably with other
countries in the region and even on a Bank-wide basis. During the period
FY80-83, the disbursement rate on loans and credits to Malawi (excluding
the effect of non-project lending) averaged about 28 percent per annum,
significantly higher than the Eastern Africa Regional average of 19 percent
and the Bank-wide average of about 21 percent.
Project Implementation
21.       Overall, implementation of Bank projects continues to be good.
However, the third NRDP project has recently been classified as a problem
project-the first ever in Malawi-due to inadequate budget provision,
fertilizer shortage and lack of marketing and input infrastructure.
Implementation and disbursements are 50 percent of appraisal estimates.
The C^vernment has agreed to reassess its FY84 development budget so that
it can allocate sufficient budgetary resources for the project, to commence
construction of marketing and input facilities and to ensure timely
delivery of fertilizer. With these corrective actions, the project is
expected to regain lost momentum.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
22.       In 1983/84 agriculture employed some 85 percent of the labor
force, provided about 40 percent of GDP and accounted for 85 percent to
90 percent of foreign exchange earnings. Over 70 percent of Malawi's total
land area is farmed by smallholders on customrry land, while about five
percent is farmed by estates on freehold land. In 1983, the smallholder
subsector provided 78 percent of the agricultural GDP, but the estate sub-
sector provides the major foreign exchange earnings principally through
exports of tobacco, sugar and tea. Relatively fertile soils, fairly
reliable rainfall and a widely ranging relief enables the production of a
broad variety of food and cash crops. Nearly 90 percent of the arable land
is cultivated. Annual real growth in smallholder and estate agriculture
averaged at least 4.3 percent and 2.9 percent respectively between 1980 and
1984, the productivity of the smallholder subsector being well below its
potential due to: (a) poor price incentives prior to 1983; (b) the absence
of appropriate technology for many smallholders; (c) the transfer of both
land and labor to the estate subsector; (d) Government limitation on small-
holder production of selected high-value export crops; (e) in recent years
untimely and limited availability of fertilizer; and (f) poor transmission
of technical advice to farmers. The growth of the estate sector was
abnormally low due to depressed international market prices for the major
estate crops of tobacco, sugar and tea and problems of external transpor-
tation of these commodities to ports for export.
Agricultural Research Services
23.       Agricultural research in Malawi is principally conducted by the
Government's Department of Agricultural Research (DAR), which has national
responsibility for research on all commodities except tobacco, tea and
sugar. DAR is funded by the Government with some donor support. In
addition to crop and livestock research, DAR also has responsibility for
the following: (a) the production of breeders' seed of some agricultural
crops; (b) the propagation and distribution of selected fruit and nut
trees; (c) the provision of plant protection and phytosanitary services;
(d) soil survey and analysis; and (e) seed inspection and testing services.
Agricultural research is also conducted by the Tea Research Foundation, the
Tobacco Research Authority and by the Faculty of Agriculture of the
University of Malawi. The former two are funded by their respective indus-
tries, while the University of Malawi receives, in addition to its core
funds, small grants for programs of specific agricultural research. DAR
research has been conducted at eleven major research stations, nine sub-
stations and on about 220 district trial sites. Tea research is conducted
on three principal sites, tobacco on two and University crop and livestock
research on one. As of July 1, 1984, the DAR had a total establishment of
491 technical and professional posts, of which 412 (84 percent) were
filled.



- 8 -
Government Agricultural Extension Services
24.       The Ministry of Agriculture's Department of Agriculture is
primarily responsible for the provision of crop and animal health extension
services to smallholders. In 1980, the Government extension service was
decentralized into eight Agricultural Development Divisions (ADDs) with
specialist staff at ADD level. The extension service uses a modified
Training and Visit System, and material for the extension messages is
provided primarily by research staff. Recent performance of the subsector
indicates that the extension service has provided inadequate support to
smallholders for agricultural development. This is due in part to the fact
that the ADD extension services have not been provided with sufficiently
up-to-date and appropriate extension advice by research. The recently
appraised Extension and Planning Support Project and the proposed project
will address these weaknesses.
Agricultural Marketing and Input Supply.
25.       Provision of agricultural inputs and marketing of smallholder
crops is largely provided tbrough the Agricultural Development and
Marketing Corporation (ADMARC). ADMARC has a legal monopoly over the
purchase of two of the many crops which it purchases, sells food crops and
markets agricultural seed, fertilizer, chemicals and farm implements.
ADMARC is one of the more effective crop handling parastatals in Eaatern
Africa and, with Bank assistance under the SAL program, has recovered from
its unsatisfactory financial position in 1983/84 through the improvenLent of
its management and through export sales of large quantities of surplus
maize. Fertilizers for the estate subsector are procured principally by
Optichem, a locally incorporated company, and other agro-chemicals are
marketed by various commercial firms. Estate produce is marketed almost
entirely through the private sector. The National Seed Company of Malawi
produces a wide range of agricultural seeds for both smallholders and
estates.
Agricultural Credit Services
26.       There is no central agricultural credit institution in Malavi,
and smallholder farmers have access to seasonal and medium-term credit
through the Ministry of Agriculture's rural development projects, which
have their own credit funds and credit staff. The estate subsector obtains
credit, which is primarily seasonal financing, from the two commercial
banks.  Credit for the smallholders, which is principally seasonal credit,
is strictly supervised and repayment rates have generally been very satis-
factory.
Smallholder Production
27.       Smallholders, who account for nearly 80 percent of agricultural
production, grow a wide range of crops of which the most important are
maize, groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco, cotton, pulses, cassava, rice,
sorghum and millet. Over the past few years, smallholder agriculture has
been characterized by a steady swing into maize from a more diversified
cropping pattern, although significant price increases in 1984 led to



sizeable increases in tob-cco and cotton production. Recently, maize
surpluses over self-sufficiency have enabled its regional export. The
Government is attempting to provide a growth climate for both smallholder
and estate production in order to support its overall strategy of
maintenance of self-sufficiency in food staples wlth expansion of
agricultural exports and improvement in rural incomes. The potential of
the smallholder sub-sector for increased productivity of both food and cash
crops is clearly indicated by the following comparison between current
average smallholder yields with those obtained in research station trials
(potential yields): hybrid maize 3,000 kg/ha (7,000 kg/ha), composite
maze 2,000 (5,000), rice, bluebonnet 2,175 (5,000), beans under maize 350
(1.000), confectionary groudnduts 360 (1,800), wheat dryland 900 (2,000),
cotton 600 (2,000), coffee 150 (1,500), and dark-fired tobacco 500
(1,200). Assuming there are commensurate improvements in the extension
service, which are being introduced under the forthcoming Extension and
Planning Support Project, the average yield gap should be able to be
considerably reduced by the proposed National Agricultural Research
Project (paras. 29 and 34).
28.       Since the end of the 1970s the Government's National Rural
Development Program (NRDP) has provided an extensive level of services to
an increasing proportion of the smallnolder subsector.  The primary
objective of the 'R,DP is to increase the level of smallholder production
through the provision of additional extension and training staff,
agricultural inputs and farm services. Cultivation of new land is
discouraged and emphasts is placed on increasing the productivity of areas
already cultivated. Attention is given to soil conservation, watershed
management and afforestation. The growth of village-run Farm Clubs
throughout the NRDP area has facilitated the delivery of extension and
training to farmers and has enabled the effective delivery and recovery of
farm credit. The expansion of the women's extension program has assisted
women with both homecraft and agriculture. However, the 1981 Review of the
NRDP highlighted the mixed results of NRDP and emphasized the need for
improved development of acceptable crop technical packages which could be
integrated into an improved farming system. IDA is assisting the
Government with this program through various credits, and the proposed
project and an Extension and Planning Support project should enable the
Government to improve the effectiveness of its overall agricultural
program.
Constraints in Government Agricultural Research
29.       DAR's past research successes have established a good base from
which future research can be extended, and the quality of work carried out
demonstrates Malawi's capacity for high quality research in the future.
However, since the mid-1970s information on technology has not been
regularly or readily made available to the farming community. New tech-
nologies have not been adequately adapted to the various local conditions
and, as a result, the adoption of much of the improved technology has been
disappointing. Linkages between research and extension are generally wedk.
Coordination of research programs is also weak and much of the recent
research work is still to be analyzed, summarized and written up for use by
extension staff and the farming community. Financial investment in
research have not always reflected national or farmers' priorities and



- 10 -
increasing expenditure on overheads and non-research work has greatly
exceeded that invested in research. Many Malawian research staff have
received postgraduate training overseas, but lack of an adequately planned
training program has prevented the maximum value being obtained. Library
resources are extensive, but inadequate investment in professional library
staff, disorganization of the library materials, absence of suitable
reference and lending systems and physical resources have prevented the
library from providing suitable services for research.  Meanwhile,
recently, DAR's operating budget has been declining in real terms. Between
FY82/83 and FY83io.-, the allocation to DAR's operating budget declined by
14 percent in real terms, and of that, allocations to DAR's research pro-
grams, services, and overheads declined by over 20 percent in real terms.
Currently overheads and administrative costs absorb nearly 50 percent of
DAR's recurrent budget; in DAR's 84/85 budget estimates, research work
absorbs only 31 percent of its recurrent budget. DAR's high fixed costs
and the Government's current fiscal difficulties are together considerably
restricting funds that DAR has available for research programs.
Agricultural Development Program and IDA Assistance
30.       Prior to the establishment of the NRDP, IDA helped finance three
of the four large integrated agricultural programs, viz., those located in
Lilongwe, Karonga and in the Shire Valley (Credits 550-MAI, 114-MAI,
363-MAI). Implementation of these programs was generally good and the
proiects were popular with farmers 21though crop production increases were
often low.er than originally forecast. Since 1980, IDA has assisted the
Government with the development of the NRDP in the Lilongwe, Dedza and
Ntcneu areas (Credits 857-MAI, 1343-MAI, 857-MAI), Mzuzu and Mzimba (Credit
857-HAI) and Karonga and Chitipa (Credit 1183-MAI).  Average crop yields
from the NRDP areas have been lower than anticipated and the proposed
research project will be designed to assist in the formulation 7.f' =er
appropriate and productive extension recommendations for the different
crops and difficult sections of the farming community. IDA has also
assisted the Government with development of its national woodlot program
(Credit 992-IAI) and, with IFAD, has assisted in the funding of the
Smallholder Fertilizer Project (Credit 1352-1AI).
31.       In its current stage of evolution, IDA's assistance strategy to
Malawi's agricultural sector is one of long-term institutional develop-
ment. This focuses principally on strengthening national systems -
principally smallholder agricultural research, extension and planning -
that can be pivotal in expanding agricultural production, improving diver-
sification and marginal productivity, and increasing export earnings. In
addition, the Bank Group plans to support agricultural diversification in
the estate subsector by financing medium-term credit, management training
and extension support. The proposed lending operation, focusing on small-
holder research, and the Extension and Planning Support Project are thus
interwoven as first stage efforts in the long-term program of central
systems development. Proposed assistance to MOA's planning division aims
to develop a consensus on its functions and to help strengthen its staffing
so that it can provide continuing technical advice to policy-makers on
investment priorities and sector structure in light of Halawi's comparative
advantage, as well as pricing policy analysis. Strengthening of research



- 11 -
capacity would help DAR to improve its planning, management, technical
proficiency, and relevance of research to farmers' needs and economic
priorities. Strengthening of the extension system would assist the
Department of Agriculture to Improve the technical competence and informa-
tion oase of extension staff and the methods of farmer outreach. These
improvements in the relevance and quality of agricultural research,
extension and planning are cruciaL to developing viable commodities for
import substitution and export growth and to help the Malawian smallholder
raise his agricultural productivity.
V                          ~~~~~~~~PARW 1V - THE. PROJECT
Background
32.       A report entitled  Staff Appraisal Report, National Agricultural
Research Project,' No. 5295-MAI, dated January 24, 1985, is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex
III.
33.       The proposed project was prepared by the Malawi Government with
assistance from both the World Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
and from consultants. The project was appraised in the field in March,
1984.   Representatives from USAID participated at selected meetings during
appraisal and in follow-up meetings with the Government. In November 1984,
the Association approved an advance of US$583,500 under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), to be refinanced by the proposed credit. The
PPF funds will be used principally to finance consultancy services to: (i)
prepare detailed designs and tender documents for civil works, including
redesign of major Ministry of Works housing prototypes, including those
under the project; (ii) design task-oriented programming and budgeting for
DAR; and (iii) facilitate initial organization of DAR library documents.
The PPF would also finance air fare and subsistence costs of bringing
consultants to Malawi for interviews, to permit their appointment prior to
effectiveness. Selection/appointment of the consultants is underway.
Negotiations were held in Washington from January 7 to 11, 1985. The
Malawi delegation was led by Mr. J. Malewezi, Secretary, Ministry of
Finance. USAID participated as observers.
Objectives and Description of the Project
34.       The proposed project would be the first phase of a 10 to 15 year
program to improve the focus and quality of Malawi's smallholder-oriented
agricultural research program; formulate an overall strategy (master plan)
for agricultural research; strengthen critical linkages, particularly
between research and extension programs; and improve the efficiency and
economy of DAR's ongoing activities. The project would focus on developing
the human resource base and institutional framework needed to carry out
relevant agricultural research. New research priorities could emerge by
the project's third year as a result of the master plan to be formulated
under the project. Systems of annual review and planning should be well
underway by that time. The ultimate objectives of the project would be to
develop new varieties, husbandry practices, and farming systems aimed at
responding to farmer-' regionally specific problems and significantly
increasing smallholder production and incomes.



- 12 -
35.       To meet these objectives, the proposed project would have the
following main features:
(1)    Creation of an Agricultural Research Council to advise on
research priorities;
(ii)   Reduction in DAR's station network and improvement in physical
facilities, including investments in civil works, equipment and
staff relocation;
(iii)  Reorganization of DAR into multidisciplinary research teams;
management and systems improvements including task planning and
budgeting; improved data processing and retrieval; and institu-
tion of routine planning and evaluation exercises to improve
cost-effectiveness;
(iv)   Improvement of DAR's technical capacity including an improved
career stream for DAR scientists, a staff evaluation system,
training and technical assistance;
(v)    Improved collaboration with International Agricultural Researcb
Centers, Regional Research Institutes, and introduction of a
contract research program with national non-governmental research
centers;
(vi)   Improved linkages with extension and improvement in the relevance
of extension messages through establishment of Adaptive Research
Teams, research-extension workshops, and preparation of locality-
specific extension recommendations;
(vii)  Improved economy and efficiency in on-going activities, largely
through reduction in overbeads and vehicle running costs, and
reallocation of DAR budgeting proceeds to sustain the above new
activities.
Detailed Features
Agricultural Research Council
36.       An Agricultural Research Council (ARC), representative of major
Malavian interests in agricultural development, would be constituted under
the project principally as a policy advisory board. The Council would
include: the Controller of Agricultural Services as Chairman, the Chief
Agricultural Research Officer (ex officio), the Chief Agricultural Officer,
the Chief Veterinary Officer, the Chief Forestry Officer, Secretary of the
National Research Council, and representatives of the University of Nalawi,
the Tea Research Foundation, the Tobacco Research Authority, the Sugar
Plantations, the Estates Advisory Board, and of the Economic Planning
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture.
37.       The ARC's responsibilities would include:
(i)    Ensuring that the agricultural research strategy is consistent
with the availability of finances and established priorities and



- 13 -
conforms to national goals for agricultural development. A key
element would be formulation of a flexible agricultural research
master plan, providing a research strategy for a 5-10 year
period. During negotiations, agreement was reached that this
master plan would be completed and sent to IDA for review and
comment by March 31, 1988 (Section 3.01(e) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
(ii)   Reviewing DAR's annual research program, ensuring the provision
of essential resources for DAR.
(iii)  Advising on areas where donor assistance is required; and
coordinating and monitoring the activities of all donors to the
agricultural research system of Malawi to ensure that these are
consistent with the Master Plan and that they do not result in
distortion ^f research programs, the misallocation of resources
and commitments to prograrts which have excessive operational
costs in the long-term.
(iv)   Ensuring that funds are available for contract research, that
such research is properly oriented to the needs of the country,
and that the results are delivered in a timely fashion.
38.       To carry out its responsibilities in an effective manner, the
Council would set up a Secretariat which would be responsible for develop-
ing the research Master Plan jointly with the Chief Agricultural Research
Officer's staff and for organizing the regular reviews of research. The
project would finance an advisor to the ARC for a minimum of three person-
years, particularly to assist in formulating the Master Plan with the
option to extend his contract for continued advicc on program planning;
incremental staff salaries and benefits for the two professional Malawian
staff menbers of the Secretariat and their support staff; travel and
subsistence costs for ARC members to attend meetings; and other operating
costs. The Government's proposal on the structure, composition, and
functions of the ARC, including its Secretariat and its links to the
National Research Council have been reviewed by the Association. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the establishment and full
staffing at the professional level of the Secretariat would be a condition
of Credit Effectiveness (Sections 3.01(c) and 6.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
DAR Infrastructure Consolidation and Improvement
39.       A phased reduction of the present over-extensive research station
network would reduce the escalating costs of maintaining stations with
small research programs and would release such funds for more intensive and
better-focused research work. The current network of 11 main research
stations, 9 substations, and over 220 district trial sites would be reduced
to 3 main stations, 2 substations and 10 trial sites. The three major
stations retained would be Chitedze, Bvumbwe and Lunyangwa in the Central,
Southern and Northern Regions respectively. These facilities would provide
research station infrastructure in the major, important agro-ecological
zones and also ensure regional availability of research services. One new



- 14 -
new trial site would be constructed at Mkondezi, in the Northern Region, an
otherwise unrepresented eco-agricultural zone, for research on tropical
fruits and roots/tubers.
40.       Most Commodity Teams would be located at the main stations, and
this consolidation of staff into teams with agreed work programs and a
common home base would eliminate the past duplication and improve overall
coordination of commodity research. The three main stations would house
the National (Multicommodity) Research Coordinators and Commodity Team
Leaders.
41.       The project would construct and rehabilitate research buildings
and required housing; provide much-needed scientific equipment, farm
machinery and vehicles, and office equipment/furniture; an! relocate 215
staff. The following civil works would be undertaken: (i) the central
buildings at Chitedze would be rehabilitated and expanded including con-
struction of new administrative, library and soils and plant nutrition
laboratories; Cii) Bvumbwe library, laboratories and selected other facili-
ties would be renovated; (iii) Lunyangwa's laboratory, library and office
facilities would be expanded; (iv) land would be prepared and laboratory,
office and other buildings would be constructed at Mkondezi; (v) 115 staff
houses built and 62 rehabilitated to accommodate relocated staff in remote
locations; and (vi) other minor works.
Reorganization, Management and Systems Improvements
42.       The proposed reorganization of DAR is designed to improve the
setting of research priorities, the allocation of resources and the overall
quality and output of research. The Chief Agricultural Research Officer
(CARO) would be supported by two Deputy CAROs, one in charge of research
programs, the other in charge of technical servicer and administrative
matters. At the operational level, the major reorganization would be a
change in the research station management structure such that the officers-
in-charge of the main research stations, who formerly had direct responsi-
bility for all activities at the station, would be freed of administrative
duties in order to focus full-time on research. Management of the stations
would be taken on by administrative officers with more limited management
responsibilities. The administrator would be assisted in these tasks by a
station advisory committee, comprised of the station's scientists, which
would meet every month.
43.       Agricultural research staff would be organized inLo multi-
disciplinary commodity (applied) and adaptive research teams and into
service teams. The applied research program would be organized into five
commodity-oriented programs. Each of these programs, the adaptive research
program and DAR's technical services would be managed by a National
Research Coordinator (Multi-commodity) responsible to a Deputy CARO. The
commodity research teams would develop generally applicable recommendations
on crop and animal husbandry from trials on research stations. Adaptive
research teams would also be established to test commodity recommendations,
both in sole cropping and in systems on farmers fields. One outgrowth of
this program would be the adaptation of recommendations to the particular
needs of women farmers, many of whom are heads of households. The



- 15 -
commodity teams would operate nationally, while the adaptive researcb teams
would operate locally. The adaptive research teams would work closely with
the ADD level extension service, while commodity research staff would
confer regularly with both adaptive research and extension staff. In
preparation for the project, DAR has been phasing staff into newly created
management posts. A well-qualified CARO Supernumerary was selected in
1983, and given full control of DAR in September 1984. A suitably
qualified Deputy CARO (Research Programs) is in post and it was agreed
during negotiations that a suitably qualified Deputy CARO (Technical
Services) would be in post not later than November 1, 1985 (Section
3.01(d)(2) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement). Agreement on a key
staffing schedule for DAR was confirmed at Negotiations. Prior to
Effectiveness, suitably qualified Station Administrative Officers for
Chitedze, Bvumbwe, and Lunyangwa, would be in post (Section 6.01(d)(3) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       Program and Budgeting (P&B) System.  The project would provide
technical assistance for introduction of a task-oriented program and
budgeting (P&B) system which would support the new management functions;
under the new system, DAR budget funds would be assigned through the NRCs
to the Commodity, Adaptive Research or Technical Service team leaders.
While a suitably qualified Malawian is being recruited and trained, a
long-term, internationally recruited specialist in programming and
budgeting would perform the line functions of DAR Financial Controller
(para. 51). The project also supports the overseas and in-service training
of a Malawian accountant to enable the officer to take over as Financial
Controller. The Malawian is expected to take up the departmental post in
late 1987. During negotiations the Government and the Association agreed
to review, by April 30, 1987, the need for and duties of the
internationally-recruited Financial Controller after October 1987, to
determine whether he would indeed need to continue to operate as a
Financial Controller, or would serve in an advisory capacity (Section
3.01(g)(ii) of the draft Development Credit .greement).
45.       The focus and therefore relevance and quality of research would
be improved through a structured annual review and planning exercise. A
draft indicative research program for 1985/86 has already been prepared by
DAR and improvements suggested by IDA during post-appraisal discussions.
Research programs would focus on production constraints of crops and live-
stock that have current or potential comparative advantage and reasonable
marketing prospects, domestically or internationally. Research on farming
systems would also be a priority since it focuses on the value of output
from the combined resources of land, labor and other inputs. Research
would address the sub-optimal use of existing technology and also focus on
the generation of new technology, in order to expand the overall production
function.
46.       Review procedures are described in para. 66.
47.       Library Services.  DAR's system of library services would be
improved with expansion of the main library at Chiteeze and consolidation
of DAR's smaller libraries at Bvumbwe and Lunyangwa Research Stations into
satellite libraries. The project would provide 3.5 person years of inter-



- 16 -
nationally recruited expert assistance; the Malawian Head Librarian would
be externally trained to Master of Library Science level; and junior
librarians would receive appropriate in-country short-term training. The
library collection would be catalogued and made accessible. Measures would
be established to improve the acquisitions procedure; circulation of mate-
rial; library utilization; and estimation of operating fund requirements.
48.       The orientation of DAR's biometrics and data processing unit
would be changed under the project from providing routine data processing
services to also providing economic analyses to support strategic planning
of the research program (para. 38).  The capacity of the unit would be
strengthened with technical assistance and staffing by at least two
Malawian agricultural economists. To permit this change in orientation,
commodity and adaptive research team would be trained in data processing
techniques, and DAR's data processing and retrieval capacity would be
improved through the acquisition of computers.
49.       The project would provide financing for DAR to re-introduce the
timely publication of an annual report. The project would also assist DAR
with the regular publication of a Research Bulletin.
Strengthening of DAR Technical Capacity and Improved Career Development
50.       The task and skill breakdowns of DAR's job descriptions to be
introduced under the project would be used to help managers analyze staff
skill gaps. A system would be established, with technical assistance
provided by the project, to link staff supervision and evaluation with
development of staff work programs and the staff training program. During
Negotiations, agreement was reached that by April 30, 1987, the Government
would establish a scientific career stream for DAR satisfactory to the
Association (Section 3.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
This career stream should permit high level advancement of scientists based
on the quality and contribution of their research, without requisite move-
ment into managerial roles.
51.       The project would finance both degree and non-degree training
consisting of: (i) postgraduate training at Ph.D. and M.Sc. level and
other professional training for National Coordinators, Commodity and
Adaptive Research staff and for the Financial Controller and Librarian.
Internationally recruited agricultural scientists would be provided to
assist in running programs while selected Malawian National Coordinators
and Commodity Team Leaders staff are absent for training. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that filling of the posts of ARC
Advisor, Programming and Budgeting Specialist/Financial Controller,
Librarian, and Procurement Specialist, would be conditions of Credit
Effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
An internationally recruited Training Advisor would be financed by USAID to
assist DAR and DOA in developing an in-service training program for
research and extension (para. 61); he would be in post not later than end
July 1985.



- 17 -
Research Collaboration
52.       Under the project, DAR's National Coordinators would maintain
contact with relevant International Agricultural Research Centers and
Regional Research Institute programs and would be provided with funds for
periodic visits to the major centers of research. Commodity team leaders
would also participate in regional and international consultations with
appropriate research centers. This would be programmed as part of the
proposed DAR Training calendar.
53.       The project would capitalize on the human resources of the
University of Malawi and private research entities by providing funds for
contract research. DAR would both elicit research proposals in areas of
particular interest and vet proposals in the light of DAR's overall
research priorities. The ARC would manage the funds for contract research,
and would review and adjust the program annually as appropriate. The
project would provide funding for contract research programs at the
University of Malawi and on estate coffee at the Tea Research Foundation.
Two person-years of technical assistance would also be provided for the
coffee research program. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
DAR would provide the Association with the proposed staffing pattern and
research support that the Tea Research Foundation would provide for coffee
research (para. 3 of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement)
as a condition of disbursement against that research program.
Linkages with the Extension System
54.       Under the project, eight Adaptive Research Teams (ARTs) would be
established, 7 at ADD level and one at headquarters. The ARTs would
receive technical assistance as well as M.Sc. and short-term training in
farming systems research. The ART would consult relevant commodity team
leaders for information on available technology that might be adapted to
local conditions. The ART would design the experiments jointly with the
Commodity Research Teams and ADD Subject Matter Specialists. ADD extension
field assistants would help establish, monitor and harvest certain of the
trials.
55.       Under the project, applied commodity research staff would immedi-
ately start to update the basic text of the extension service, the Agricul-
tural Handbook of Malawi. Regular research-extension meetings would be
introduced at ADD level. The Ministry of Agriculture's annual research-
extension workshop would be re-instituted. The latter would be strategy
meeting to review problems occurring in research-extension linkages and
propose suitable improvement measures.
Efficiency and Economy in Ongoing Program
56.       Reduction in DAR's infrastructure network, elimination of redun-
dant technical services, and relocation of staff on a research team basis
would significantly reduce DAR's real level of expenditures on station
overheads, general administrative costs, and staff travelling. Administra-
tive and facilities overhead costs are expected to decline from about
47 percent of DAR's recurrent budget at project commencement to about



- 18 -
37 percent of DAR's budget in the project's fifth year. The proportion of
the DAR budget allocated to research programs is expected to increase from
about 31 percent in 1984/85 (pre-project) to 46 percent in 1989/90 (year
five). This reallocation of resources, and general reduction in adminis-
trative and overhead costs is expected to result from several factors: (i)
reductions in utilities costs as stations are closed; (ii) control of
vehicle running costs as the fleet becomes centralized under the project;
and (iii) reallocation of some labor time from plant upkeep to research
trials as the physical plant is consolidated.
Project Cost and Financing
57.       The total cost of the proposed project, including all ca?ital and
recurrent expenditures, and physical and price contingencies, is estimated
at US$49.9 million equivalent, of which US$32.2 million or 65 percent is
foreign exchange. As the project involves improvements in DAR's ongoing
program as well as introduction of new activities, the project cost
includes the total DAR program for the five-year period. Taxes and duties
are negligible. The project cost comprises US$10.9 million for civil
works, US$0.1 million for staff relocation, US$3.9 million for equipment,
ve:hicles, furniture and books, US$17.1 million for training and technical
assistance and US$17.9 million for operating costs. Physical contingencies
have been included at 15 percent for civil works, 10 percent for vehicles,
equipment, utilities and adaptive research running costs and 5 percent for
vehicle operation and maintenance. Local price contingencies for all items
have been included at 11 percent for 1985, 10 percent for 1986 and 1987 and
9 percent thereafter. Foreign price contingencies have been included at 8
percent for 1985, 9 percent for 1986-1988 and 7.5 percent thereafter.
58.       A summary of the project financing is given below:
Financing
Plan:                                            (US$ thousand) -
USAID      IDA        GOM      TOTAL
Agricultural Research Council           0.0        1.0       0.1        1.1
DAR Infrastructure Consolidation
and Improvement                      -         15.7        0.1      15.9
DAR Management and Systems
Improvements                         _          2.9       0.5        3.4
DAR Staff Development                   8.1        1.8       -         9.9
Research Collaboration and
and Contract Research                  -         0.9        0.1       1.0
Research-Extension Linkages             1.1       1.4        0.5        3.0
DAR Ongoing Program                     -         -         15.7       15.7
Total Disbursement                   9.2      23.8       16.9      49.9
59.       Unit costs of institutional housing in Malawi are within the norm
for Eastern Africa, but the cost of construction and maintenance on the
Government has become untenable as fiscal constraints have increased.



- 19 -
Housing costs under the project would therefore be reduced by approximately
37 percent by (i) redesigning prototypes to reduce unit costs (financed
under the Project Preparation Facility); (ii) eliminating higher cost house
types; (iii) rehabilitating rather than constructing wherever possible; and
(iv) using the government housing pool or renting rather than constructing
consultants' houses. Project cost estimates assume these cost reductions.
60.       In light of the Government's severe budget squeeze and the
primary importance of achieving a durable long-term agreement with the
Government to halt the real decline in DAR's recurrent budget, the
financing of this operation has been structured so that donors would
finance all investment costs and incremental operating costs which would be
incurred early in the project. The Government would progressively increase
its finance of the operating costs of new activities through reallocations
from discontinued cost-ineffective activities of DAR. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Government that as a minimum, the value of
its budgetary allocation to DAR's operating expenses, would be sustained at
least at its 1984/85 level in real terms (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).  This would be suffLcient tu finance total
DAR recurrent costs, including the operating costs of new activities intro-
duced under the project, by the project's fifth year. The financing plan
assumes government financing of 27 percent of the operating cost of new
activ'ties by the project's third year, and 71 percent and 100 percent in
the two subsequent years. Planning and monitoring of resource allocations
to DAR would be supported by an adjustment in the recurrent budget struc-
ture for the Ministry of Agriculture, such that the recurrent budget vote
for DAR would include expenditures only for that department. This change
in the vote structure for FY85/86 and beyond would be instituted by the
Government prior to negotiations.
61.       Under the financing plan proposed, IDA would finance US$23.8 mil-
lion (47.7 percent, net of taxes), USAID US$9.2 million (18.4 percent), and
the Government ($16.9 million equivalent) (33.9 percent). USAID expects to
obligate its funds by June 1985. In the unlikely event that USAID's
funding is n>L forthcoming, the Government would be responsible for
providing the needed finance (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       DAR would establish a procurement unit responsible to the
Financial Controller and staffed by a suitably qualified expatriate
Specialist and at least one Malawian Procurement Officer. This unit would
be responsible for managing and expediting all procurement under the pro-
ject, including preparation of bid evaluation reports to be sent to the
Government Tender Board for its review. Procurement of project require-
ments would be in accordance with World Bank guidelines. Civil works
estimated to value US$1.0 million equivalent or more would be procured
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The principal civil works
would be bulked and grouped into one contract for procurement by ICB,
estimated to cost US$8.2 million equivalent. Other civil works which would
be small, scattered and unattractive to international bidders, would be
procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in accordance with Bank Group



- 20 -
Guidelines. The average size of contract to be procured locally would be
about US$0.4 million equivalent. Procurement arrangements are summarized
in the following table:
Project Element                      Procurement Method            Total
ICB      LCB     Other    N.A.      Cost
(US$ m)
Civil Works                      8.2       2.7                        10.9
(8.2)    (2.7)                      (10.9)
Staff Relocation                                              .1        .1
(.1)      (.1)
Equipment, Vehicles,             3.35       .5      .05                3.9
Furniture, Books              (3.35)    (.5)    (.05)               (3.9)
Training and                                      17.1                17.1
Technical Assistance                            (7.7)               (7.7)
Operating Costs                                     .3      17.6      17.9
(.2)a/  (1.0)     (1.2)
11.55     3.2    17.45    17.74      49.9
TOTAL                     (11.55)   (3.2)   (7.95)   (1.1)    (23.8)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ Recurrent costs of contract research.
63.       Procurement of all equipment, vehicles, and furniture would be
bulked to the extent possible within compatible contract packages.
Contracts for scientific equipment, farm equipment and machinery, vehicles,
and office equipment and furniture estimated to value US$150,000 or more
would be procured by ICB. A preference limited to 15 percent of the
c.i.f. price of imported goods, at the customs duty, whichever is lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers of such items in the evaluation of
bids. Such contracts estimated to value less than US$150,000 but more than
US$25,000 would be procured by LCB in accordance with Bank Group Guide-
lines. Equipment and furniture contracts estimated at US$25,000 or less
would be procured locally by prudent shopping, including at least three
price quotations, or through Central Government Stores, not to exceed
US$150,000 in aggregate. Books and publications would be procured through
direct purchase from sole suppliers or by competitive shopping. For con-
tracts of equipment, vehicles, furniture or materials exceeding US$150,000
in estimated value, documents would be submitted to the Association for
review before bidding and award. Technical assistance would be procured in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Similar criteria would apply in
selecting consultants for contract resesrch, although these consultants
would be local.



- 21 -
64.       Proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed at 100 percent
net of taxes and duties for (i) civil works; (ii) stafE relocation; (iii)
vehicles, spares parts, equipment and publications; (iv)(a) technical
assistance and training other than contract research and small items of
local training, (b) contract research and small items of local training;
and (v) operating costs of new activities (the latter on a declining number
of activities). A schedule of estimated disbursements is provided in the
Credit and Project Summary. Disbursements against (i), (iii), and (iv)(a)
would be against full documentation. Disbursements against (ii), (iv)(b),
and (v) would be against Statements of Expenditure (SOE), signed by the DAR
Financial Controller and certified by the CARO. Documents for expenditures
covered by SOEs would be retained by the Borrower and made available for
IDA inspection during normal project supervision. To expedite
disbursements, a Special Account (Revolving Fund) would be established in
US dollars with the Reserve Bank of Malawi or at such other location
satisfactory to the Association. The initial deposit of the Account would
be $0.4 million, equivalent to the first four months of expenditures
averaged for all categories. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that the opening of a Special Account by the Government would be a
condition of Effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The credit wou'd refinance the US$583,500 PPF advance (para.
33).
Accounts and Audits
65.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that DAR and ARC
would each maintain a separate account for their activities, separating all
development expenditures from recurrent budget expenditures. Both these
accounts would be managed by DAR's Financial Controller. With the tech-
nical assistance and counterpart training being provided under the project
to improve DAR's planning and budgeting procedures and financial control,
the Department is expected to have adequate capability to maintain project
accounts. DAR would have those accounts audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association. The annual audit of project accounts would
include a specific audit of SOEs. DAR would submit audited project
financial statements, together with the auditors' comments, to the
Association withir, six months of the close of each fiscal year (Section
4.01(c) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Supervision and Review
66.       Three types of review would be established under the project:
(i) an annual DAR review exercise, to be completed by September 1 of each
year, beginning in 1985, (ii) the ARC's review of DAR's proposed plan and
budget; and (iii) triennial in-depth reviews of the research program begin-
ning not later than March 31, 1988 (Section 3.01(f) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). By September 30 of each year, beginning in 1985,
DAR would make the report from its annual planning and review exercise
available to the Association (Section 3.04(b) of the Draft Development
Credit Agreement). By end-October of each year, beginning in 1985, ARC
would have completed its review of DAR's plan and budgets and by end-
November, the ARC would make the report from its annual planning and review
exercise available to the Treasury and the Association (Section 3.04(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Discussion of the annual review,



- 22 -
including research program proposals, would form a substantial part of
joint IDA-USAID supervision missions. The Association would participate as
an observer in the annual ARC program and budget review and the in-depth
triennial reviews.
Project Administration and Implementation
67.       In addition to the specific implementation conditions previously
noted, the following overall project management arrangements would pertain.
The Ministry of Agriculture will have overall responsibility for the imple-
mentation of the proposed project. Its Department of Agricultural Research
would be specifically responsible for implementing the project, under its
Chief Agricultural Research Officer. Staff have been appointed in an
Acting capacity to all the National Research Coordinator and Commodity Team
Leader posts and would be confirmed in the second half of calendar 1985
following a staff promotion review.
68.       The Government has established the ARC.  Tijring negotiations,
agreement was reached that the ARC Secretariat would be established and
fully staffed at professional level as a condition of Credit Effectiveness
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). The Agricultural
Research Council (ARC) would meet as often, probably quarterly, as would be
necessary to carry out its duties effectively. A high-level representative
or the Ministry of Finance (probably the Undersecretary for Revenue) would
attend the ARC's annual program and budget review. This would facilitate
government consensus on the rationale for DAR's budgetary requirements,
assist in at least sustaining the 84/85 real value of DAR's recurrent
budget, and prevent distortions in priorities due to Ministry of Finance
cuts at item level at a later stage.
Environmental Effects
69.       Research programs would be designed to develop technologies which
safeguarded the delicate balance of agro-ecosystems, and at the same time
minimized health hazards. Sound integrated pest management practices will
be developed for major pests and diseases. Farming system research
programs will investigate methods of soil management which will ensure soil
productivity and conservation, including the application of minimum tillage
to production systems. Agro-forestry development would maximize use of
integrated farming systems, and aim to increase soil and water conservation
in addition to food, fuelwood and fodder production. Further, the restora-
tion of the diversity of cropping in Malawi, which is expected to be a
benefit from this project, should build up the fertility of the soil due to
a more balanced use of minerals, and decrease erosion through better soil
coverage and varied root depth.
Benefits and Risks
70.       Overall, the project would focus research on on-farm problems and
link research and extension into an integrated system, through continuing
meetings of applied researchers, adaptive researchers and extension staff.
The preparation of DAR's Master Plan for Research would set priorities for
research in the context of national goals, known local problems and inputs
that can be mobilised from both DAR and non-DAR sources. DAR's efficiency



- 23 -
in using research resources would also be improved through the development
of a program and budgetting system. The manpower development program would
develop the essential human capital of the agricultural system and the
.mproved physical facilities, promotion structure and library facilities
would tend to attract and retain trained scientists.
71.       As in most other Bank Group assisted agricultural research pro-
jects, no attempt has been made to quantify the economic rate of return due
to inherent uncertainties regarding timing and value of research findings
and their adoption by farmers, difficulties in dividing potential benefits
between research and complementarity investments, and of assessing the
value of negative research findings. However, merely to break-even in
economic terms requires only an additional 0.1 percent growth in net small-
holder agricultural GDP and the project induced growth seems very likely to
exceed this figure. Ex post evaluations have virtually always shown high
returns for research.
72.       Significant risks affecting any such long-term institutional
development effort would include inadequate funding preventing DAR from
adhering to a continuing research program, poor execution of research
programs, and the difficulties of developing suitable technology for the
subsistence farmers, particularly in the adverse ecological regions. The
project has addressed the issue of stability of funding directly by
obtaining an agreement from the Government that at a minimum, the 1984/85
real value of the DAR recurrent budget would be sustained. This would be
sufficient to continue to finance the systems and other operating improve-
ments proposed under the project. The difficulties of developing institu-
tions and a suitable technology for subsistence farmers will be addressed
directly by the project's comprehensive approach to the problems.
PAIRT V - LECAL iNsIRm    S AND AUHORIMT
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Asso-
ciation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
74.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex IIE. Special conditions of effectiveness are: (a) establishment and
staffing at the professional level of the ARC Secretariat; (b) filling
posts of DAR procurement officer, and administrative officers for Chitedze,
Bvumbwe, and Lunyangwa research stations; (c) filling posts of ARC Advisor,
Programming and Budgerin4, Specialist/ Financial Controller, Librarian and
Procurement Officer; and (d) establishment of a Special Account.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 24 -
PIT VI - -R
76.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 28, 1985



-25                                           Ammex I
TArL E 3                                   iage1 of 6
MALAWIFI- SOcAL UDICATS Da 
NUAUI                               3NFUEE E C WS (WiLGIEED A135) /a
Pon                 036  R1CRET RETTEAT  lb
I%aLb          XSECRT       L  INCOM APR=C           HK36L1 MkE
tisk    t  4Ll7Qfb    p            SOUem or SaM -      APEc= S. OF SA
AERA C( ASUM SQ. NI)
TOTAL                                1.tL5    115.5      11U.5
AGR1CLT5AL                          37.9       39.5       41-.
GO   CM cum  CM5)                       50.0      70.0     z2o.0             Z49.1                1112
cKLORI OF OIL SQOITALER)              -        35.0       4.0              52.                  529.0
EOWOIA!u AND VrTOL STAZISrs
POFULATION.NED-YEaR CrT sAo D)     3419.0    451o.*0,    6:5 o
URBA  LOFUZArtOS (: OF TOTAL)        4.4        6.4        9.6             19.2                  29.7
POPULATION; EROJECTI0NS
POPULl.TOM IN IEA  ZOO     LL'                        11.7
STAT    ! IOVULArO- (NELL)                              47.9
rOULATIOS                                                 1.9
POPULATIO  DESST
eA SQ. 1!.                        23.9      36.1       52.7              32.5                 55.8
FEM SQ. I3. AGRI. LAND            90.2      1L4.3      150.0             119Z                 111.5
POrsATO  AM SIRUCTURE CT)
01:4 IRS                          45.5      16s         17.0             45.6                 45.4
15-61 IRS                          52.1      50.8       49.3             51.5                  51.7
65 AND ASWE                         2.4       2.4        3.6              2.9                   2.9
POPUlATIOS URNR iRATE (:)
TOTAL                               2.4       2.8         3.0             2_S                   2.8
OD"A                                4.5       6.6        7.0              6.2                   5.2
CUE  BIRTH RATE (PER ITIS)           55.1      56.1       56.2             48.6                  47.0
wDE WArI RATE C(EZ TUOOS)           27.1       23.2       22.9             17.7                  13.2
GSS REFROOUCTI0I RATE                3.4        3.4        3.5              3.2                   3.2
FAIMLTY PLAIE
A      ,Tons. AUAL CTHOUS)          ..         ..         -.
US.S (: OF NAREZED  1I)              ..        -'
FOD AND mO SIr
ME= OF FWOD PROO. PER CArrA
(1969-71-1ao)                       90.0       91.0       99.0             85.3                  91.6
PER CAPTA SUFYT OF
CAEORE  (: OF REQUIREMENTS)       95.0      100.0       94.0             86.4                  96.2
ROTEII  (GRAYS PFE DAY)           65.0       72.0       65.0             49.9                  56.7
OF IUICS ANIIAL AIID PULSE       14.0      19.0        19.0 Ic          18.3                 17.0
CHXLD (ACES 1-4) DEATR RATE         58.0       42.0       29.0             23.3                  18.7
I FE  ZECT. AT BRTT (YEAR)          36.5       40.5       411              4*8.4                 51.7
INFANT 1526T RAZE (FE  THOS)       206.0      173.0      137.0            117.5                 102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE umAER (POP)
TOTAL                                ..        ..       33.0 id          21.3                  35.6
nB                                   .         ..       70.0 Td-         61.5                  56.1
RURAL                               z..        ..       29.0 7           14.2                  27.3
ACESS TO EXRETA DISPOSAL
r              CZ OF POPULATriC)
rUrAL                                                                    32.0
URBAN                                .         ..       15.0 id          69.2
RURAL                               ..         .           .24.
POPULATION PEZL PHSICIA          35250.0   33430.0    40950.0 /.        27477.8               11948.3
POP. PER FORSLIG PERSOS           1940.0 if 9050.0      3a30.0 7         3396.2                2245.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOrAL                             370.0     650-0      7;0_0 1.        1059.0                 986.9
URBAN                             120.0 If  160-0       80.0 7 &        395.2                 368.7
RURAL                            1310.0 Tf  900.0     14so.0 7.         3094.0               402.1
AISSIOIIS PEZ HOSPITAL ED             ..       32.1       39.0 le
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL
CRUM~~.                              3.4 1        ....
RURAL                                         5 0 7i       ...
AVERAGE NO. OF PENSONSS/ROO
TOTAL                                - -'
URBAN                              I..        1.7h
RURAL                                ' '
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF D ELLINCS)
TOTAL                                  
URBAN                                __      16.0                           .
RURAL                                --        .



-26-                                   ALnex I
Tr AS LE  3A                           Page 2  of 6
HALAUI                - SOCIiL DICAXS DATA sNEET
MALAy!                              REFEREC GHPS VEITED AES) /,
mS                 CeeST RECHT ESTInE) lb
RECETr        LOW InC    AFRU         IDE: INImE
196d.    1970f!!    ESjDIATE.       S0ou; OF 5186*6     AFRICA S. OF SARA
ADJUSTED EOLIET RAfnOS
PRIMAR:   IXTAL                      ..      36.0       62_0             69.2                  91.0
WALE                      .        4 65.0     73.0             781.                  90.5
FE!LLE                    ..       26.0       5L.0             57.6                  73.6
SECHDAkT: TOTAL                     1.0       Z.0        6.0             1321                  17.4
muLE                     1.0        3.0        S.0             17.6                  23.7
FEIALE                   0.3        1.0        2.0              8.3                  14.8
VOCAT:OSAL (I OF SEWUDAIT)          23.6        2.9        4_9              7.2                   5_3
PUPIL-TEACHE RAIO
PRIMARY                            41.0      44.0       65.0             66.1                  38.6
SECOHDAZT                          14.0      16.0       21.0             Z5.9                  24.3
ADULT LrrEACY RALE CZ)                         22.1 /I    25.0             64.3                  35.6
ml_
PASSESCER CARsITHOUSASD POP           1.9       2.2        2.4 L            3.8                  20.7
LMDIO REMElVERSIL tJS5D POP         21.6       23.5       45.6             41.9                 100.6
TV  ptopllOSAD  1!                    1.8        .          *.              2.0                  18.5
SEUSPAPE  (-DALT GEMEA
INTEESsr- CI lATLON
PERI TOSAD OPIN                      .         ..        5.3 /1           5.4                  17.2
CINEMA AIUL AITErNDAIECAPrIA         0.3         ..        0.3 /k           1.4                   0.3
LAUM PUREE
TOIAL LA80 FORCE (TWOS            1570.0    1981.0     2656.0
FEMALE (PERCEll                    38.7      38.1       37.1             36.5                  33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             92.0       89.0       86.0             77.4                  57.1
INu%STzR (PEET)                     3.0       6.0        5.0              9.8                  17.4
FARTICIPAXWOX RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              45.9      43.9       41.2             61.0                  36.3
MALE                               57.5      55.3       52.5             52.1                  47.6
iE!AII                             34.5      32.9       30.2             30.2                  25.1
ECONMC DEPENDENCY RAnO                1.0       I.1        1.2              1t2                   L.4
inCo DII
PCT OF RIVATE lXEO
RECEIVED BY
TIGEST 5 OFI HOUSEHOLDS             .-       32.6
.T5t 20o OF  UsUwS                  __       50.6         -
LCEST 202 OF, WSoLfS                ..       10.4*
LOEST0 40: OF 0 SE.                          ZS. .. 2L.5
iauuy muw mOms
EsrIrIED ABSOUE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US FE  CAPrT)
URBAN                                ._        ..      123.0 Ic         168.3                 525.3
ROR                                 ..        ._        99.0 7           90.8                 249.0
ESTIAMO A ED ATIE POVERTY INCOME                                                                                                 T
LEVEL (OSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               .          ..       65.0 Ic         LO7.7                 477.4
RUIRA                                .z ..              52.0 7F          65.0                 L86.0
ESTLIAZED POP. BELOW ABSOLUE
POVER?Y INAE LEVEL (C)
URSAN                               .Z 5. 25.0 Ic                        34.T
RURAL                               ..         ..        5.o 7           65.4
HOT AVAILABLE
Mr APPLICABLE
FOTES
/a   Mm group averages for each indicator are poplcwaion-uigtLed arLtimetic mean. Coverage of countrIes   ng the
Indicacors depends on avaIlabIlty of dt A nd Is not unifozm.
lb  Unless otherwise noted. -a.ta for 1960- refer to any yar between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for  ostc ecent Escaae- beteen 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1977; Id 1976; Ie 1979; If 1962; LL 1967; /h 1972;  IL 1966. African population only; L. 1978; 1k 1975.
JUNE. X984



Pl_   ~ ~             1-- l-
_ ~     a-isiad   i    .- a-i - a- ;Ca  l      - At-  -          -a
i_, _._  -  tV. -   _ea-a1 i-l   -  in*eic  -  -a-le-
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~-u~a  _i.                                                   at 'Tse..El. -   na-ca  X-~.I     i   5         n     __-
_             thi   l.'li   as*i.ic.s-  ci Alp --
'. at5  salillslP   -l Cl -* ;a- -.t ,_, , , ,, J,,,., -
'-e -W_a;a                  t.l  sSa1   pi. a.i.....t.e... itt  -    a--l .T 
Z-n                   -  i,-J 1-4  -X   '       ;---_Ic-_ _-a.ca                               - J   5  - _i7I t 'J- _-             -J _7   ,
1-3                                 SI a-.l
11  -                                                                              a  .Sai  *llICi rssi ;-C  a-c -   a-< zra  Pe_.sl--
.a-I-- -  I                      _  . 41.al     P-    .Ii-                                                               -a _ ;           m  _la.as -
_ ^-_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1i cc i   sil  _c. I-clan -s _-., p: _.iar _ss  -  _a   ea D
>~~~~~~ isa  .1-a  C__  s. hc-s B1ae_  - (.fl%ail                               _sIfal   -
L _A-IA      -I--   - 4~-: _       _ 451                  iA                                       a_; _s .V,  ac  -q           _el-  'l  -sail sZU  ._   -
a-, -a *a   ll i- _ 1                                                                     ? *--   3a_ a _   a.ga  a-A.
_i-a_ .au _l _   sal. al la-51 _'.1t   aaasa   '_   ana 3.0C.d                              *.t DSI_ -|_ SAD  0t1 a-tiS1 bIt  Pbt- .Dt Il
*aa-   a-na   itpiaa     1.                     aw 1ale .sa...ia  _Sc                     i-ta s  lae a.  ta-a  a  *asi a.: .arnas a--a a_5  t?-Dt-hp- 
_-_ .._as  _  -. t- a-a. a   IC  I-a   a--1  --a-a--.-nas   .-aa-.a                      -  al-a a-   aC~In-**--  -s-s   i.   .a-NppC
at.s.s.                                                                                            .a-Ar_
w o| ~~ . 8 E~-a A-,- -                                   -*                   p_=t@ _  
at    s aa            a       Ian_ a_l- fl  i-li. a5       U    I     s                  Clad -   l.a-  1t*i t-b --- *}_ a|- *S*t* _-  .i-ll {a-a; sla_ _
ia-n-     bath w_    1l -nI   l.a -   -' las-i  a   .s a-at .1-fi          a-..Uf a. -USa-. ala -a-_,-  a s-a.._ __.. als- SilaD  *SCi _  _
-= f.a.  -   aa -1 a.la J_DIa,a. .  cali alan-a --Isa  pC--t                                                 l.P ufl PC naablt1-iJtI              fla*lDa  a
=_~~~~D     sIIt__n   s-is-_ -_  h ttfq_t -   l*a --                                .cl *_t ee  'I  a- si1_sal*a-          .......................-. b; -U _- ratii ~ian.
tt a-.    aaa                                            aa        a_   la     a- . _ _         ad s-r ?
_t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p  la-a-a t-_-a   Eaw -   se__t -   i-l.t  l.a-:s ita-a a_tw 5e.1 -:a-o-~_1l
-P  UP  -AIa                                           htS _t inIll _                _, hd a.n
_P .-        a-s- t       -            a      llas 5_t                                   -I_ --      a _a-t
_  a.i  a  y-aa  -      W _     l _8  Stj    .a  aiaa     p..sa-                     * Sa5ai_A   nl   iaa     (s_  all   siat ai..a  _p .1             ial  _
_~~~~~~~~.Uil  Sa                                                                                   .aa an            Cs  *sl-fla tla-Iv fllq     -
AL  _:       -  -r -        .:an-     ,--                                                                            - a a-.s----.  -a s.  e    .; _  _   n1   1_ t
_-  _ .  *i-a _-a  s-I p.- _.a           _a- _.__ aa _aZSl  _- a.aa   .ila-iaa       D         i-Da *.all  il,_    e-e _5                t-aail_?     tip   *
tiaitsian1     lii it_  DSSIIIa l._*_       -i_.-  t?a      sa.a-                      .  aa  ~   Aa- I-t       .1i11    _--i  a-aDas.  -alaia  Sh?              
_ ____- _e   al-  ''.   S    1         - ,sl.515      _n-   *_la                         -Ca '-l-- *~                  C     a-.i _-_ s.  -  (__t n  tS  sa.._
-_p laID a-                           tall r.: _.a-  c.-usI t.aPD-sal a.-. .a  aia-  aal       -
Pn.D5.caD  %.aa.CsiQl -a _,a  -awn- _ ia._; -                          ;                 .1a la-a. .issSpt wYcIp s_- vya  gal_l- i  a-l-  Seaeat_
_".. P~                                                                                --n-               An, -.  n. Pa- .  _ .i  a -  a-rI  _  --_ -_-  I
ii-- siP-tall  ..a-IahI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|;m  alsa _-alo--   - E,-.-nt   5.EI aa.  lIlC  n. aPillI r-I  a-.            Ife.ta  5la         iDtfa
a.11 _            p1 --          -a        .a          .
taa-a--izlf  tisna                                            i-wn'IAa     p-An.ah   aa J-  -a.sa
._ wa .55      pa-~  - _a-.. a:_ .a.ai   _1   sa-i-.s_  laa.   .la                    Snna_a-t aY  i-s-   a ..alaea..-............................ a- s -- .e-acal 
_te  {-  -i  alt  Sat  a- she   :_ -Cl- -'P  a -    _,                       *     C.h  -, a_   in    ._ a91 J _;               *, 11* -  a1          Ia
Sae a  -.a  t *insr   _  r.s:..................   ,a-Isaa.asmn ,a.a   .a-a    .a.ls  _t Clt Ieal  a-al   ia--a _alt
5Ca- II      11AL    helheibt b-la*-a-  ils - Ia ..iai~-a-' -i ansI ills  -                                a-a       a-  -              sit  a-
__;_ . _ __ t _|_ atTta_ -1                                                _  ;      _         M.-
_,t-' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                      _ lY  = a5 5  _3                             -A -,_  Ap --_ ~
ti1   51 ina-Pll           _ .- i : ai.as      _    -      - --a                          Sisa--e                      = 2 -   9   -      _a v-      _ -
v-q= -st _ a  - a ia  -.l a _a-.   _L                         ..Ai. 5. se-i-I a.. a-i i-t 
r-pl         -           _ -  _ a   sea-i a s eat an   a- _  -    fl                      ..- a. a                               _ -a-a  a-a  u l -.   1a      _
*i- _i_ _eiaal  la  *       Wi -_s a-lta ._ eSa-s-I 5a-sl                                                      't-_ea a*  ua.s aa-ea, a-s    ih
a-            .i     r   a-_ _      1 sl     p         al                            a-. aL. a-1a- if as us     -          -  -am  -_-b sa           Jh_
'1-|-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                                 -   1'4w''--6I  ,   , +-_ __d_;34X;  - 
I~~~~~~~jazs _-r  X Z -*   _  _ _-- J.o -                                               In~ I
-iDeaasS    -lhssit 155 As -  ..,  A.     -  - ea  la -aa- ei                                             :a-n. pn  1C-        - a       - alau         -D
WP" -v-i-  '__~ 1-1nd-.  l-aI- a-.u.-niaaa.atcliu                                                       -e-(hsJID    Sl)aal-
* - n -il  -  _           *-7aPi-  a "a-a  .lh3e Ia                                                       i --a-
a-1  ta'_-1 t  - T                 l.- -tna ne.a- 1a     .  *I-* _a .7 a- _                                          an7                  -
_  1  qzl- 'V1-1 nl_za7q _ ~ 4 - _                                     - 
n_s_   _ _    _    -  *X- -| ~  =  a-    II        -.                       ill!     a
As  _sna- Ia                          .-                                             La5.-   a-. 5.a- p-c       .l.a-i -  I  l                  -  ate
~~~~~~~~-wJ    2782    .0  _Pd  __"w t  2-   -_I                                                  1.         -I   I&          In      _     "M   ft  -AX
a . *~ ~  d ns_ >-a f  - - -      ..-a.a  -*A_.                                                .InI  i-S. *- .L  a -j ul   A-
*.9                i-I-           _-       I A -          _         a A    . i a    J. l-a A1_      -     .  .-laa-0 Ap-C- i.
_i n-ni..- .a..l.Ila  a    - .a....-a- Ia  -a-.~s.         _ _   1 a.l.e. a-ta- a.,aa.                                                     laJ a.0   "aa
-eaaaaia, Za-b-a           a--p              gl-    -,-           - l A _a- a-s5 in-i  -            i-s A- _  --       A. W._  _ _*_  _
_ __ _- a-aa    tala  a.*Tnalai'~i  ia                                                    a.  S    Sll  V   a aa1_        aa.     l  D
_~~~~~~~ _~l    __ii                                                                 It,         _~           s a-lsi.t-a            slt .
-"a          eacaa.l             asceaa ca r     ViIi          aiIl          _         ec  *i- _ .he....................... a    -s_ JIlao   I:--Ja .aalas.... . -d  ts 4< -AI
-1_- laflmi  flela  ti.   - a-.I               1.5-*l .aisais                        -a -il is ' na.1W  _, aca  a-a enX ~-   Ii-    ia115s
~asaa  la- _1n    a-a:aesal---ut-a-t              In- s                    a-a _a  tIa s els w-v ass--a             -a s-ata           -Z Qe
-     a-a.a-  l-l a. _s-I _-an  Si asSi-_ ac .al                             _         lII  _I   qlS  as -aiaiX    -t S- a-  *(a-Ia  adSs
~~~~~~~~~~~~tni-a a-cl -                                                            P.la.  a1 _l aLs s. .na  .a-_ aJh   r ir I
X~~~~~~~~~~-X~~~~~~~Ie  aDa                                                    i-        al 51   ipn_ is-al  Dw-..  . a--s- i-n-a.|
9 ~ ~ ~ ~~aaai-                    la naer   - a9-  t-a-taalae   -I  aCtuusi   -  5l                                                                   t
IssDda Yasa          .)aa  afasi   ieCii                   -il                             il   -.-i                     I    aD         Ihl            ia



-28 -AMI
lre f 6
P q~~fi :        64NZ-19I  dom_)
cm NW capSS m - (mm
.nf
CoLU     S       ,CO                                                        P'
no                                      Du     W I1     9      noS gm        m         r    n
Qmwd    o lC nCAL                       5,3OJ S3 DAZW                6     4.              3.3  3.4    37    3J         4 I
AF1041100  Qol                    9.2      &        3.6   S .9       3.Z            31Z  3.      3.    37         3.8
TrAmay2D zmS                               0OJ    -Ql       -       11.             32   3       4A    &A   u 
9Sow                         S19.2       LO       7.5    -22        2J1     LA             3.2  3A       3.6   3.        4.1
-AMCM                     1140.2      -LZ       ^1 I    -L6i    -01       6A             9A  -0.6       1      3       LBS
X  -                   tT          11J1   iZ5s3~3LS  i  -  -17J7  -W  13e          -lS2    Si      53    S@S       5.7
roe    GEan316.                         L3  8 M  1 2L           -3         6.            MA  --2       Li    LA   LZ
QNS _ SCUA  50      s        Su        6SM      -2        4  6            - 7.
CW dUat  CL76WnW0                              M  ID   m w0    1592     ao             ISLS 2v5    Z2R    Vw          o
atwo >w(5Y%c                               IDZt   1 1U9  a-"          Dist           a"OJ ai        O0       _.   0
t-=c  =gpdcm_t                                  (at  DXcm  I    pa)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w X_  _XLO pmImo                                        mo                  m6   2.9       4.1
37.S  3L6   U.J   4=                               YS          39        3A
c_wvf                                         EA    wL %a   8.Z                                   5.0         4S        ZA
a     _tvm                                  3L6   Z5.   IL9   D.3                              4.3        i7-         5
l"ct arS                                      5Q9   4ZW   3IL2   IL                               3.2        Z4         Z
UC.. Fly NZ
qczm                                                         15.Sm     U;. I&S 12       U.8
CkmT.w   I of - -                            ~~~~~~~16.5  15.   19.1    12A
5%zb  (+) at (mlt  -)                                         tLI   Li    -4L9  O.i
Cad,  22^no                                                   IZ9      IQ2     U        960
1975-0  191D-5  SOFgI
OnRDW=
cw    t man Z                                          5i       3e2     4.
CAP pC  1mmxc  w  CZ)                                   1.9     0.3     L5
1 a__Sd        nb O-hra   Z                          6.1     2.0     ZJ
mm                                                     6A       8D      4.
11q*    -v4lp  --1 Ql                                           04      0Q
Top    dW 01fi                                        02       OJ      0.6
c/ A|C axOtu   19l pd-omb  A.n



- 29 -
1u53d6
-apdaum    : 6452 - (dd        ex   )
QW at Ca: MM -(WUM
-WA - zMUML TWO
AaauI M~m" am (23
Cat cmuEw 983 pi)
X~1  at                                          anc pd
1903        979   IW    193   193   19113                   1981  1963   1986  1987   1988
~MLMTh1
lbrd.m    o                                 212.2       29.5  22.9  -14.2  -9.4    6.2                   7.3   6.7   4.5    46    4.7
Pd_zy                                     102.8      32.0  17.3  -13.7  -7.1    85                    7.9   7.0   4.6   4.6    4.7
9-     t                                    9A        IIJ  337.8   0.0  -27.3  -Z1I                   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.5    5.0
_d.m   Inft                                 32J         04   -9.7  -47.1  -1.    0.1                     3.9  Z2      L9    3.0    3.2
rld                                       L8.5       U.5   35.0  57.2  46.3   11.4                    9.5  -2.    OA    LO    1.3
Fmuiamea                                  30.6       2.3  -66   4.0   -.8          7                  2A    2.7   Z.8   2.       3.1
I         ad qdpm             6h.6                  -33.0  I9  -1.3  -.9  -3                i6    5.9   5.5    57    5.9
cdo                                       MD1.1       6.5  nS   -4.4  -IL6    2.5                     3.5   1.6           2.23    W
PS (I19<O)
-l     -o                                    -         -9.9    3.4  29.9   9.9       4                  8.6   40   10.2   8.9    8.9
TM= Pdco IrAm                                         M1    2-.   16.9   7.6   9.9                      2.2   7.2   9.1   9.4    9.4
Ter GE t" _r                                           -10.9  -15.1   IL1    2.2  -16.7                  6.2  -3.0   1.0  -0.5    0.4
OMxdtmz af )hmmbm         Tad. CZ)                          gixq Ahmaa rK         CZ)
CEt awcm  pclc)                                      (at cogmmt 37s ckin)
3!B75   1    35   am                                    7975-3     Dom        3611Y
5mm                                       I0LO   MO.   0.   10.                                      9.6       -I         467
Prfw                                    92.6  89.7  89.8  89.5                                    8.3       -0.8        4.6
7.4   10.3  102   10.5                                  17.8       -3.       5S2
-                                         100.0  10.   100.0  100.                                    .        -6.0       3.2
road                                     4.9   7.3   6.5   6.1                                    0.9      -130         1.7
F&oMUb                                   9.1   13.9   5.6  15.5                                   83         4.6       3.0
I.e. ty ad *p4n                       24-5  344   20.7  23.4                                    1.0      -1L3        5.S
0dm.                                    6L5   "A    57.2  55.0                                   -4.5       -1.3       2.4
Sho  tf ToFs udth              9om iE Tral tijh                    9    of Tad. wt
1dtial (aAaa C?)               DeisWiu Cma. (2M                 Captza SAphi OIL ElfD 1/C2)
1970    1973    198Z           1975 197    19                   191        1        
DZECI (V To= 
65.3  762                                                69.0           11.3     10.3    7.0            21.4         15          21.0
PH8                            ~~~-   -        -             -         -      -               _           _            _
X-EP                                       56.7  64.8    75.0            24.2     14.5    6.0             9.0        D.7           9.0
11 1I~3.~    ~ gd~ LUaUdm                                                                                   MEta   Mdta ftL
O       24. 1L9



- 30 -                                                              ma
E_rf  6
-StSaz       : 6452 (.kd-1981. t _uma)
W  brc  *ta:  1521O- (1982
KuA1 - 38A= O  M.a           ZUSL OPITAL CA  OW
CILUmu MS at amua p        )
1979   193   9l81  1911Z   1963                           1981    198    1966   1987   1990
Era-",of ooisS _A amy                     274.1  353.6  38.   3D26  277.8                            314.0  367.6  36L8  453.7  66L1
O sh1cb:  1}    _df E.Ob                 224  35    37.7  242.6  212.6                              2.2   5.1  317.1  361.1  5
lrvoce of aod   A mmk                      WL5   58.    0S  401.3  419.6                             453.5  40.4  519.6  N3.6  82.9
of ab2ch: Iwm1 _  f..                    309.9  342.9  AlJ   214.0  2D9.0                           222.1  263.8  273.6  338.S  ao.4
Nee crluf.in                              -0.4  -6.4   -1.5   -467   -9.9                           -10.8  -IL6  -1L4  -13.2  -46.2
aQzrt  st=ut n r1a                       -251.6 -24 -5.2 -I=.& -1I5.7                               -03 -147.4 -1.2  -152.9 -151.0
Ptrlmt diLzu   1 W                          -       -      -      _      -                              _      _ _   _       _      _
Offlid-l gm=  AId                             .   50.1   46.3   36.3   29.5                           35.0   420.0    A0 53.5  65.5
_lam (oat)                                  96.8  13Z2   87.8   63.5   37.7                            A.6   24.9  83       75.2  14.5
ENff.dlal81.8  99.1   7Z.3  5SL6   49.9                                                             S.9   S5.3  1O.5   86.2  119.7
Pkilam                                    15.0    91    5.5  -1    -12.2                            -31.5  -30.4  -21.2  -9A    15.2
ftIur 1_                                    97.1   42.1   40.1   -0.7   3.2                           77.9   85.5   30.4   33.0  -4.7
Cum= I   ( -  - inoe)                       11.3   1.0  -0       31L3   46.3                           10.0  -S.0   4.5   4.8   123
1g_rm .u1 tmr                               64.5   71.5   49.0   22.7   19.8                           9.8   14.8   26.3   33.1   6S.1
of "dch Co1d                              -       -      -      -      -                             -       -       -      -      -
'-  - inatu 1                               17    1.5   1.2    0.7    0.6                              0.2    0.4    0.5    0.7    LO
L QkP-L AN) 1
G    l Db=mmu.zs                           171.9  211.3  173.5   9.S   96.0                           112.7  1t.1  18.9  13m.1  z25
Offtcd1    us                             66.6  50.1   46.3   36.3   29.5                            35.0   42.0   50.0   53.5  65.5
CloamI      Lms                           43.1   60.5   46.1   42.8   48.9                           49.0   4.3   55.I   63.3   87.6
C                                       16.8   17.7   11.6    5.4    1.8                            5.9    6.2   10.0  12.1   16.1
Cw                                       -      -      -      -      -                              _      _      _      _       _
M_                                      14.4   15.1   21.0   27.1   32.3                           21L    30.8   35.9   61.1   57.0
Oftr                                    11.9   27.8   13.5   10.3   14.8                           14.8   11.3    9.2    A.1   14.4
NA4irAVENm iuO  TOO=                      8L2  100.7   81.1   30.   17.6                             2L7   29.8   8.8   63.3   99.4
CffUdad  E eCicu                         8.9   2.2    3.4    1.2    6.7                             5.3   8.1   12.3   15.3   2.1
Dm                                     I28    7.6   26.8   21.0    1.5                            1.0    .6   52.5   22.7   31.9
Och r uk&at                              5.1    6.9    3.0    0.7    2.0                           16.1    3.5    6.3    9.6   19.8
FRLM                                    55.4   57.9   47.9    7.6    7.3                           6.3    7.6   11.8   15.6   27.6
Dbc   _    1tAtutUz ad M8bux            718.5  63.8  726.6  770.1  8D7.8                           852  P8.0  913.3 1018L6 13W.0
(fflid                                 547.1  413.4  685.6  5U.2  591.                            652.9  73.2  812.7  896.9 1213.5
pZwea                                  171.4  225.4  260.9  225.9  213.7                          11.2  151.8  13L6  12L6  140.5
oUhsbarnd Df                             171.4  171.2   MM3.8  188  225.6                           263.3  335.6  4L20  52L1   747.8
Debt S.uvk*
Tma  51zvinP brne                        -43.5   67.6  -S8    -61.7  -5L3                           -6L9  -91.3 -103.4 -101.8 -436.6
lttemc                                -24.3  -34.6  -49.3  -0    -3.6                             30.6  -33.2   40.1  -37.9  41L0
W1  kuzu  a                             4.0   -6.6  -15  -19.9  -67                               -27.6  -25.9  -34.2  -37.2  -31.9
FAym     - X     Z Eqzt                   15.9   19.1   25.4    A4   Z1.0                            25.8   263   25.9   22.4   20.1
Aainim rmr Paf en - lm Cl)                  8.3    5.8    6.6    4.0    2.4             8.4    84    7.3    7.5    8.4
Offil
AV-T  qaby c f    Iinc  w (VW=)             18.4   23.3   29.9   30.7   27.7                          22.2   Z2.2   26.3   25.7   22.4
Pti.ara
An S of Debt Outstanding
ac End of Deeumber 31, 1983
Maturity Strcture of debc outstanding
Maturites du- vichin 5 years                       29.0
AturIties due within 10 years                      46.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                      3.6
Po  MdcA    a
Ocmrb 24. 198



ANNEX II
-31 -                              Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1984)
Bank
incl.
Loan or                                                      Third             Undis-
Credit No.  Year    Borrower       Purpose                  Window    IDA      bursed
(US$ Million) -
Five loans and 16 credits have been fully disbursed          73.96a/  131.63
711-MAI    1977    Malawi       Water Supply                           7.00     0.61
857-MAI    1978    Republic    National Rural
of           Development
Halawi       Program I                            22.00     4.53
910-MAI    1979                 Education III                         14.50     1.91
992-MAI    1980                 National Rural
Development
Program II                          13.80      5.44
1099-XAI    1981                 Highway IV                            33.00     2.69
1123-MAI    1981                 Education IV                          41.00    15.78
2027-MAI    1981                 Technical Assistance         1.00               0.15
1183-MAI    1981                 National Rural
Development
Program III                         7.30     4.05
1272-MAI    1982                 Lilongwe Water Supply
Eng. Project                        4.00      2.03
1330-MAI    1983                 Fifth Education Project               34.00    30.26
1343-MAI    1983                 NRDP IV                               10.60     9.61
1351-MAI    1983                 Health Project                         6.80     5.22
1352-MAI    1983                 Smallholder Fertilizer                 5.00     0.63
1423-MAI    1984       -         Fifth Highway                         26.90b/  24.36b/
1427-MAI    1984       -         Structural Adjustment II              55.00    2.3.57
1428-HAI    1984       -         Technical Assistance II                1.50     1.40
2363-MAI    1984                 Fifth Highway              18.00               17.95
TOTAL                                           92.96    414.03
of which has been repaid                       3.32      4.92
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                  89.64    409.11
TOTAL undisbursed                               L8.10    132.09   150.19
a/ Less cancellations.
b/  IncLudes Special Fund.



-32 -                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
S. IFC INVESTMENT IN MALAWI
September 30, 1984
Total
Investment                            Type of                           Held    Undis-
Number     Year   Obligor             Business   Equity   Loan  Total  bY IFC  bursed
~~~(Us$ M4ilion)
326-iAI    1976   David Whitehead    Textiles        -     10.8  10.8    4.7       -
& Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI    1977   Dwangwa             Sugar          -      9.9   9.9    8.8
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-iAI    1978   Investment and      Development  0.6       -    0.6    0.6       -
Development        Finance
Bank of Malawi     Company
502-MAI    1979   Malawi              Tourism        -      2.0   2.0    2.0      1.6
Hotels
Limited
542-HAI    1980   Ethanol Company    Manufactur-
Limited of         ing Alcohol
Malawi             from
Molasses      0.3   1.9    2.2    2.1       -
TOTALS     0.9  24.6   25.5   18.2      1.6



- 33 -                   Annex III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
NATIONAL AC-RICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare:           Ten months.
(b)    Prepared by:                     Government with assistance of
consultants.
(c)    Initial discussions with
the Bank Group:                April 1982.
(d)    First IDA mission:               April 1983.
(e)    Appraisal Mission departure:    February 1984.
(f)    Negotiations:                    January 1985.
gg)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:  May 1 1985.
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
PPF advance of US$583,500 principally to finance consultancy
services for detailed designs and preparation of tender docu-
ments, designing programming and budgeting system, and organizing
library documents; and air fare and subsistence costs for
consultant interviews (para. 33 and 64).
III. Special Conditions
(a)    At a minimum, the Government to sustain the 1984/85 value of its
annual contribution to DAR's operating expenditures over the life
of the project in real terms (para. 60).
(b)    Consultants to be in place throughout Project Year 1; key ARC and
DAR staff to be in post as a Condition of Credit Effectiveness
(paras. 43 and 51).
(c)    The ARC Secretariat to be established and staffed at professional
level by Credit Effectiveness (para. 38); the Deputy CARO
(Technical Services) to be in post not later than November 1,
1985 (para. 43).
.



- 34 -                    Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(d)    A Special Account for credit disbursement to be opened by
Government as a Condition of Credit Effectiveness (para. 64).
(e)    The agricultural research master plan would be completed and sent
to IDA for review and comment not later than March 31, 1988
(para. 37(i)).
(f)    The annual ARC review of DAR's proposed program and budget to
take place no later than end-October of each year, beginning in
1985; the ARC report of this review to be made available to the
Ministry of Finance and IDA by end-November beginning in 1985
(para. 66).
(g)    In-depth reviews of the DAR research program, chaired by the ARC,
would be held once every three years, beginning no later than
March, 1988 (para. 66).
(h)    By April 30, 1987, GOM would establish a scientific career stream
satisfactory to the Association (para. 50).
Mi)    DAR to provide the Association with the proposed staffing pattern
and outline research support that the Tea Research Foundation
would provide for coffee research as a Condition of credit
disbursement (para. 53).



IBRD 1R287
Ip.      '    \'  ANGOLArE ZAMBI AA
.0% ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~        .
-   I'll  ftWorwr              NARMIAr BOSW~~AMBIA 
A ,  k
qa~~~~~~~~~A                                                                           .0 .  . 
Ci(z ,^  eta  ;                      MALAWI SOTH     -      L
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
/-.rIIAL jLIVINOSTNIA              AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH STATION NETWORK
pv ~  ~     ~    ~       .--,/                  \ ,..~,            DAR FACILITIES
C                  /        "        *     T//ER/A.                 Rch 9s
/    t~~~-(  , Av/  |                 @ ~~~R...hSubacomns trOmf b  Swe.n
/   9CowARhJ                             7  ~~~~~~~~~~E.persnal Tml 51a-s flel.-& qfA i
{_- / * .. ;1 \ zi~~~~~~~Om 51fAIru 5uhm/on
g 51tC \   /   -   \   !                Zi  ~~~~~~~Roeserc 90otw<n or Substroons to ber Clos4ed
v^q ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ATOA   AGIULUA   RESEARCHPROJECT
iJ                                                         DAJ EXISTJNG NONC-DAR FACILITIES
Mosew AinjBegdg   R na StIods
) t  e  =-\4 r  [ th   d       e                 *    Eporwmental Subotemns
CiK K                        F t v  .? ,UBr ., 2 >,  Rsarh SUndertConsoruStion
<, *_ Mctt                                  h lia9tokrsoe\  r
,4   '\ bIC_  -;_                  )} CHIFOX (0-raX~~~~~ Mo-o Agricutrnod Reserch Iag
he~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   Emprineta Sub,s,_                    tationsrfs
.!> ~~~~~ Roads S0 \.o
iii,.                          Regional Boundaries
it.                                CHIPQICA ~~~~~~ iiir&.o.\  --  ~~~~Inearatonal Boundaries
!%  L,LON                                             T NAC
.ii.ii'  A nLb CdMalA p                 F roc
/ z ~~. OCS'tj.,:
*0/"  \  &emewrhksflwe                                                           1
-' ~    ~      \,_                          __ *r *ResrAib&t
O  ;!0  U  CO  eo    100                       jr                         r_lmnwrrfr4o$rfor i
X  |     t      ~~~I    I                                 iy                            r.ar i , eavqr4r.,,
ILE    >-              To~~      ~~~ ~  rr,ro sna rsEPTEr^E






