Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5295-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
January 24, 1985
Eastern Africa Projects
Southern Agriculture
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officWil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawian Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00 = M4K1.33
MK1.00   =  US$0.75
SDR1.00 =
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet {f)
I kilometer (km)           =  0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km2)  =  0.39 square miles
I hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)         =  2,204 lb
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYHS
ADD       -     Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC    -     Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ARC       -     Agricultural Research Council
ART       -     Adaptive Research Team
C&O       -      Chief Agricultural Officer (Extension)
CARO      -     Chief Agricultural Research Officer
CAS       -     Controller of Agricultural Services
CDA       -     Cooperation for Development of Africa
CGIAR     -     Consultative Group on International Agricultural
Research
CIAT      -     Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical
CIDMMT    -     Centro Internacional de Maiz y Trigo
CIP       -     Centro Internacional de la Papa
CRSP      -     Collaborative Research Support Program (USAID)
CRT       -     Commodity Research Team
CTL       -     Commodity Team Leader
DAR       -     Department of Agricultural Research
DOA       -     Department of Agriculture
EPA       -     Extension Planning Area
GOM       -     Government of Malawi
IARCs     -     International Agricultural Research Centers
ICIPE     -     International Center for Insect Physiology and Ecology
ICRAF     -     International Council for Research in Agroforestry
ICRISAT   -     International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics
1ITA      -     International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
ILCA      -     International Livestock Center for Africa
ISNAR     -     International Service for National Agricultural Research
MFNR      -     Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
MOA       -     Ministry of Agriculture
NRC       -     National Reseerch Coordinator
NRDP      -     National Rural Development Program
ODA       -     Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OPC       -     Office of President and Cabinet
PO        -     Professional Officer
PSC       -     Public Service Commission
RDP       -     Rural Development Project
RMEA      -     Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (IDA)
RRI       -     Regional Research Institute
SADCC     -     Southern African Development Coordination Conference
SAL       -     Structural Adjustment Loan
SMS       -     Subject Matter Specialist (Extension)
SUCOMA    -     Sugar Corporation of Malawi
T&V       -     Training and Visit System
TA        -     Technical Assistant
TDRI      -     Tropical Development and Research Institute
TO        -     Tcchnical Officer
TRA       -     Toibacco Research Authority
TRF       -     Tea Research Foundation
UNDP      -     United National Development Program
USAID     -     Ur.ited States Agency for International Development
Thisdocurnent ha a estrictd distiution and may be uwdby dpients onlyin theperfonnaineof
tek ofrfe duduXIts cDntents maynot otherwise be discbsed without Wodd Bank authorintion.



MALAWI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction and Economic Setting .....................    1
B.  The Agriculture Sector ...........................   .    1
C.  Government Financing of Agriculture ....................   3
D.  Agricultural Development Strategy ......... ..............   4
E.  The Project        ...........................................   5
II. THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A.   Background                   ..........                   5
B.  Organizational Structure ..............................    6
C.  Management ..................... ...............           6
D.  Present Staffing ....... ............ ......... .  ....... ..    7
E.   Commodity Research ......................                 9
F.  Technical Services ............o.................. *. ...  10
G.   Research-Extension Linkages
and Farming Systems Research ................ .......   11
H.  Linkages with International
and Regional Research ..................   ............  12
I.  Reports and Publications ..............................  12
J.  Recurrent and Capital Budget ....................... ...  12
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  Sector Strategy and Project Rationale .................  13
B.  Project Objectives and Summary Description ............  14
C.  Detailed Features ....... ........... .. . .......... ...  15
D.  Project Cost Estimates and Financing ..................  28
E.  Government Cash Flow .......   ...........................  31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Mr. Andrew Spurling, Ms. Kreszentia Duer, Mr. John Coulter (IDA), and
Mr. Peter Ahn (Consultant). The mission visited Malawi in February/March
and June/July, 1984.



- li -
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management        ...........................   31
B.   DAR Physical Consolidation and Improvement ..............    33
C.   Systems Improvements                 ....                   34
D.   Technical Assistance and Training ....... ..............   36
E.   Linkages with the Extension System       ....................   38
F.   Implementation Schedule ...............................   39
G.   Procurement ........*    .................    ......    39
H.   Disbursement .........................memm. 9.066.eme       41
I.  Accounts and Audits .....              .......               42
J.   Supervision and Reviews ............   ...................   42
V.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ......................see  43
VI.  AGREEMENTSAND RECOMMENDATIONS .............................  . 47
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN REPORT
Table 2.1 - DAR Staff Establishment
Table 3.1 - Consolidation of Research Infrastructure
Table 3.2 - Project Cost Summary
Table 3.3 - Project Financing Plan
ANNEXES
I.   Selected Charts and Tables
C-1       - Key Indicators of Implementation
C-2       - Project Implementation Schedule
C-3       - Current Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture
C-4       - Structure of the Department of Agricultural Research
(Pre-Project Appraisal)
C-5       - Proposed Reorganization of the Department of
Agricultural Research
C-6       - Department of Agricultural Research Proposed Chain
of Command
C-7       - Proposed Distribution of Research and Services Management,
by Main Station
Table T-1 - Key Staffing Schedule
Table T-2 - Training Schedule.
Table T-3 - Technical Assistance.
II.  Cost and Financing Tables
Table T-4 - Project Component Costs by Year (Base Costs).
Table T-5 - Project Component Costs by Year (Including Contingencies).
Table T-6 - Summary Account Costs by Project Component (Base Costs).



- iii -
Cost and Financing Tables (cont'd)
Table T-7 - Summary Account Costs by Year (Base Costs).
Table T-8 - Summary Account Costs by Year (Including Contingencies).
Table T-9 - Transfer of Operating Costs of New Activities.
Table T-10- Government Cash Flow Projection.
Table T-11- Schedule of Disbursement.
Table T-12- DAR Administrative Costs.
Table T-13- Implementation Costs of Research Programs.
Table T-14- Implementation Costs of Technical Services.
Table T-15- Facilities Overheads Costs.
Table T-16- Advance for Preparation of National Agricultural Research
Project.
III. DAR Annual Planning and Review Exercise
IV. Selected Documents Available in the Project File, DOC #109.606
HAP
IBRD - 18287 - Agricultural Research Station Network.



MALAWI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction and Economic Setting
1.01      Malawi, a land-locked country, has a total land area of approxi-
mately 94,300 km2 of which approximately 36,200 km2 are generally defined
as arable. Malawi has had one of the better economic performance records
in the region; real GDP grew at an average rate of 5.5% per annum between
1967 and 1979, declining to 0.4% in 1980 and -0.8% in 1981, but recovering
to 3.0% in 1982. The economy remains heavily dependent upon the export of
three agricultural commodities (tobacco, sugar and tea) although Malawi has
produced considerable surpluses of maize, its primary foodcrop, over the
past two crop seasons (1982/83 and 1983/84).
1.02      Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy providing
40% of the GDP (down from 50% in the early 1970s), 85% to 90% of foreign
exchange earnings and employing about 85% of the labor force. In 1983, the
smallbolder sub-sector provided 78% of the agricultural GDP.
1.03      Since 1978/79, the country's fiscal position has deteriorated.
Government deficits, rarely exceeding 9X of GDP before then, now average
over 15% of GDP. Increased borrowing has accompanied the deficits and
inflationary pressures have mounted.
1.04      An improvement in the future performance of the economy will be
heavily dependent upon both the ability of the Government to restore
traditional, and develop alternative low cost transport routes to the sea
and the capacity of the farming community to intensify and diversify its
agricultural production. In many areas, little arable land remains
uncultivated and thus productivity of both food and cash crops will have to
be greatly improved. This will be dependent upon both the development and
use of appropriate technology and the timely availability of an adequate
supply of agricultural inputs.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.05      Structure.  Agricultural production derives from two sub-sectors,
smallholders farming on customary land and estates farming on leasehold
land (principally under private management). Over 70% of Malawi's total
land area is farmed by smallholders on customary land and about 5% by
estates. The estate sub-sector has fairly good research facilities
(paras. 2.01 and 2.14) and has been a major earner of foreign exchange with
exports of tobacco, sugar, tea, tung oil, coffee and macadamia nuts.
1.06      Climate, soils and land capability.  Relatively fertile soils,
fairly reliable rainfall and a widely ranging relief enables the production
of a broad variety of food and cash crops. Many different crops have been
grown either on an experimental or commercial scale. Nearly 90% of the
arable land is cultivated.



1.07      Performance.  Recent statistics indicate that annual real growth
in smallholder and estate agriculture, measured in terms of agricultural
GDP, averaged at least 4.3% and 2.9% respectively between 1980 and 1984.
In the smallholder subsector, maize production exhibited the most rapid
growth, largely at the expense of groundnuts, cotton, and fire and sun-air
cured tobacco. Estate production of all the major commodities increased
markedly between 1972 and 1982: annual growth rates for flue-rured
tobacco, burley tobacco, tea and sugar were 10, 17, 6 and 18% respectively
over the last decade. However, international price factors and high
transport costs had a depressing effect on GDP for the estate sector.
Productivity of the smallholder subsector is well below its potential.
Better performance has been constrained by (a) poor price incentives until
1984; (h) the absence of appropriate technology for many smallholders;
(c) the transfer of labor and cultivable land to the estate subsector;
(d) limitation by Government regulation of smallholder participation in the
production of selected high value agricultural export crops; (e) untimely
and limited availability of fertilizer, which is being alleviated by the
IFAD and IDA cofinanced Malawi Fertilizer Project (Credit 1352-MAI); and
(f) the unavailability of locality-specific extension messages.
1.08      Agricultural Services.  (a) Agricultural Extension.  Crop and
animal health extension services are provided to the smallholder sub-sector
by the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) Department of Agriculture (DOA).
Although under consideration, the Government does not yet provide extension
services to the estate sub-sector; however, tobacco and tea estates do
receive advice from their respective private research authorities. In
1980, the Government extension service was decentralized into eight
Agricultural Development Divisions (ADDs) with Subject Matter Specialists
at ADD level.  Each ADD has crop, livestock and land husbandry, credit and
marketing, womens' programs and visual aids divisions. Geographically, the
ADDs are divided into a total of 40 Rural Development Projects (RDPs),
which in turn, are divided into 180 Extension Planning Areas (EPAs) based
on a compromise of ecological zones with administrative boundaries. Each
extension field assistant, who provides the technical messages to farmers,
concentrates on a section or "block" of an EPA, composed of several
villages. The extension service uses a modified Training and Visit (T&V)
system. Subject Matter Specialists based at ADD level provide advice
directly to the extension field assistants within the various EPAs on what
messages to deliver and how to deliver them. The extension messages
themselves are provided primarily by research staff of the Department of
Agricultural Research (DAR), while DOA's Extension Aids Branch edits and
publishes tite extension materials. Recent performance of the sub-sector,
partially attributable to poor price incentives, also indicates that the
extension service has not provided enough stimulus to agricultural
development. The quality of the extension services is variable across the
ADDs; further, they have not been provided with sufficiently up-to-date and
appropriate extension advice by research (See paras. 2.01 - 2.30 for
Agricultural Research.).
1.09      (b) Agricultural Marketing and Input Supply is provided largely
through the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), a
statutory company established to purchase smalLholder crops (food and
non-food), sell food crops and sell and deliver crop production inputs
(seed, fertilizer, agricultural chemicals and farm implements). ADMARC is



-3-
a monopoly only with regard to sun-air and fire-cured smallholder tobacco
and smallholder cotton.  Until 1980, authorized prices permitted ADMARC to
sustain a healthy financial situation. In 1980-81, higher transport costs,
poor crop handling and higher costs of borrowing for large investments
resulted in some financial deterioration; however, by 1981-82, ADMARC was
again realizing profits on some of its crops (particularly non-food) and
had fully recovered by 1982-83. ADMARC is one of the more effective crop
handling parastatals in Eastern Africa. Fertilizers for the estate
sub-sector are principally procured by Optichem, a locally incorporated
company, and other agro-chemicals are marketed by various commercial
firms. Estate produce is marketed almost entirely through the private
sector. The National Seed Company of Malawi produces a wide range of
agricultural seeds for both the smallholders and estates.
1.10      (c) Credit Services.  A variety of agricultural credit channels
exist in Malawi. The estate sub-sector obtains credit, which is primarily
seasonal financing, from the two commercial banks. Smallholders have
access to seasonal and medium-tern credit through MOA's rural development
projects, which have their own credit funds and credit staff.
1.11      Smallholder Production.  Smallholders, who account for nearly 80%
of agricultural production, grow a wide range of crops of which the most
important are maize, groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco, cotton, beans,
cassava, rice, sorghum, and millet. Over the past few years, smallholder
agriculture has been characterized by a steady swing into maize from a more
diversified cropping pattern. Recently, considerable maize surpluses over
self-sufficiency have enabled regional export.
C. Government Financing of Agriculture
1.12      In 1983/84, the Government budgeted MK25.32 m, or about 12.7% of
its total recurrent budget (excluding statutory expenditure) for the
agricultural and natural resources sector. Agriculture received the second
largest allocation in the recurrent budget after education (17%). Of the
total amount budgeted on the recurrent account for agriculture, agricul-
tural extension, agricultural research, veterinary services, fisheries and
forestry received 48.8%, 12.7%, 16.7%, 3.3% and 15.3%, respectively. The
remaining portion (3.2%) was allocated for the central administration of
MOA. In the same year, Government budgeted K46.10 m, or about 30% of its
total development budget, for agriculture and natural resources.
1.13      The agricultural GDP in 1983 was MK652 m in current prices, while
both the private and governmental '-vestment in the sector totalled
MK71.42 m, or 112 of the agricultural GDP. Investment in agricultural
research in the same year was 0.67% of agricultural GDP, a level of
investment that appears to have remained relatively constant over the last
four years. This level of expenditure on agricultural research is far too
low considering the importance of agriculture to Malawi's GDP (para.
1.02). Nevertheless, present fiscal constraints can be expected to prevent
any substantial immediate increase in this investment in the immediate
term. It is therefore imperative that the most efficient use is made of
available resources (paras. 3.44, 3.47).



- 4 -
D. Agricultural Development Strategy and IDA Assistance
1.14      The Government is attempting to provide a growth climate for both
smallholder and estate production in order to support its overall strategy
of maintenance of self-sufficiency in food staples with expansion of
agricultural exports and imprnvement in rural incomes. Since the end of
the 1970s the Government's National Rural Development Program (NRDP) has
provided an extensive level of services to the smallholder subsector. NRDP
was designed to increase smallholder productivity through the provision of
agricultural inputs and farm services and to increase the scope and
efficiency of extension, marketing and credit services. Cultivation of new
land is discouraged and emphasis placed on increasing the productivity of
areas already cultivated. Attention is given to soil conservation,
watershed management and afforestation. The growth of village-run Farm
Clubs throughout the NRDP areas has facilitated the delivery of extension
and training to farmers and has enabled the effective delivery and recovery
of farm credit. The importance of women to agriculture in Malawi has been
recognized in the specific women's extension programs provided under the
NRDP; the expansion of such programs has assisted women with both homecraft
and agriculture. By 1984, 80% of the smallholder subsector was under the
NRDP.
1.15      Prior to the establishment of the NRDP, IDA helped finance three
of the four large integrated agricultural programs located in Lilongwe,
Karonga and in the Shire Valley (Credits 550-MAI, 114-MAI, 363-MAI).
Implementation of these programs was generally good and the projects were
popular with farmers although crop production increases were often lower
than originally forecast. Since 1978, IDA has assisted the Government with
the development of the NRDP in the Lilongwe, Dedza, Thiwi-Lifidzi and
Ntcheu a.eas (Credits 857-HAI, 1343-MAI, 857-MAI), Mzuzu and Mzimba (Credit
857-MAI) and Karonga and Chitipa (Credit 1183-MAI). dowever, average crop
yields from the NRDP areas have remained disappointing. The 1981 Review of
the NRDP highlighted the need for intensification of effort into the
development of acceptable crop technical packages which could be integrated
into an improved overall farming sytem. The proposed research project
would assist in this effort. The Government is now also attempting to
redress the recent shift of smallholder agriculture into monocropping of
maize through better price incentives, support for problemroriented applied
and adaptive research programs, improved input delivery and through the
supply of better technical support for the extension service. IDA is
assisting Government with this program through various credits, including a
fertilizer project (cofinanced with IFAD), the proposed research pr^ject, a
proposed Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project credit (para.
3.01) and through a recent sector study on Agricultural Diversification.
1.16      Agriculture has been a major focus of both of IDA's Structural
Adjustment Lending Operations in Malawi (SAL 1, Credit 2026-MAI, and
SAL II, Credit 1427-MAI). The major policy improvements under SAL I were
to introduce greater incentives for smallholders through increased producer
prices and to ensure a greater allocation of budgetary resources to the
Ministry of Agriculture. A consensus was reached with GOM on the import-
tance of prices to smallholder production; a methodology was developed and
applied which set prices attractive to smallholders; and prices are being
monitored on this basis. These measures have reversed the past real



-5-
decline in prices of smallholder crops. As a result, In 1984, smallholder
production of cotton and tobacco increased for the first time in nearly a
decade. Agreement was also reached to Increase budgetary allocations to
agriculture, education, and road maintenance. The allocations to these
sectors are reviewed annually by IDA. Agricultural research was noted
under SAL I as one of the subsectors most in need of increased Government
resources. SAL II has stimulated improvements in the organization and
staffing of ADMARC and rationalization of its assets.
E. The Prolect
1.17      The proposed project, which would be the first phase of a 10 to
15 year program to restructure and improve Malawi's agricultural research
system, was identified following the 1981 NRDP review which concluded that
a strengthening and reorientation of agricultural research was essential
for increased agricultural production. Following an overview of Malawi's
agricultural research system carried out in April 1982 by the International
Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), the proposed project
was prepared by the Department of Agricultural Research of the Ministry of
Agriculture. The World Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA)
undertook regular reviews during the preparation process. DAR were
assisted in the final stages of project preparation by consultants; the
final preparation documents were issued and submitted to IDA, and the USAID
In September 1983, for consideration of possible cofinancing. Following
review of the final documents by an IDA mission in December 1983, with
USAID representation in attendance, DAR collated further data; the project
was appraised by an IDA mission In March 1984 with USAID participation at
selected meetings. The project comprises a comprehensive institutional
development program for smallholder agricultural research in Malawi.
II.  THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A. Background and Context
2.01      Agricultural research in Malawi Is conducted not only by the
DAR in MOA, but also by the University of Malawi in its Faculty of
Agriculture (at Bunda College), the Tea Research Foundation (TRF), and the
Tobacco Research Authority (TRA). Limited research on sugar cane is
conducted by the two commercial estates. The DAR has national
responsibility for research on all commodities with the exception of
tobacco, tea and sugar. It Is also responsible for the production of
breeders' seed of agricultural crops; for the propagatlon and distrLbution
of selected cultivars of fruit and nut trees; the provision of plant
quarantine, produce inspection and plant protection services; soil survey
and analytical services; and seed inspection and testing services. Both
the Tea Research Foundation and the Tobacco Research Authority are funded
from their respective industries. The University of Malawi in the Ministry
of Education receives small grants in addition to its core funds for small
programs of specific agricultural research.
2.02      DAR has contributed substantially to Malawi's agricultural
success through technical improvements for its many subsistence and cash
crops and through evaluation of a very wide range of crops in varied
ecological sites. Specialist agricultural services have, inter alia,



- 6 -
provided advice on pest and disease control and fertilizer use. The
breeding and multiplication of high yielding hybrid and composite maize
varieties has greatly increased potential productivity of Malawi's major
food crop. Research on cotton to select varieties for high yields and pest
and disease resistance has been supported by an effective system of bulk
distribution of improved seed. Formulation of an effective pest scouting
and control program has been developed by research. The confectionery
groundnut preferred by the trade, Chalimbana, was developed by research;
pest and disease control is continuously evaluated. DAR has selected the
high yielding rice varieties now grown for export; water use and pest and
disease control programs developed by DAR have improved rice husbandry.
Horticultural research has resulted in the early and rapid establishment of
macadamia nuts as an export crop and has provided production handbooks for
both fruit and vegetables. Past research successes have thus established
a strong base from which future research can be extended, and the quality
of work carried out demonstrates Malawi's capacity for high quality
research in the future.
2.03      Up to the mid-1970s, information about improved technology was
made available to the farming community reasonably regularly. A wide range
of district trials were conducted and annual reports published regularly.
However, s!nce the mid-1970s DAR's management has deteriorated, and the
continuity and coverage of trials has suffered during staff absences for
training (para. 2.04). Recently, the district trials program has also
deteriorated. DAR has not adapted new technologies to varying local
conditions. The extension and adoption of much of the improved technology
is also disappointing. Improved linkages between research and extension,
including the development of adaptive research teams, is desirable.
Coordination of research programs is currently weak and much of the recent
research work is still to be analyzed, summarized and written up for
extension and the farming community.
B. Organizational Structure
2.04      DAR's Chief Agricultural Research Officer (CARO) is responsible
to the Principal Secretary, MOA through the Controller of Agricultural
Services (CAS) for agricultural research (Chart C-3). DAR research has
been conducted at eleven major research stations, nine sub-stations and at
about 220 district trial sites (Map IBRD 18287). Research stations are
directed by senior research officers who are directly responsible to the
CARO (Chart C-4), and who have control over the allocation of station
resources and other activities conducted on their stations. Investments
have not always reflected national or farmers' priorities and increasing
expenditure on overheads and non-research work has greatly exceeded that
invested in research (para 2.30). The only formal linkage with the
extension service, headed by the Chief Agricultural Officer, has been
through the CAS.
C. Management
2.05      Effective management in DAR has been prejudiced by lack of staff
continuity at both headquarters and on the research stations and by inad -
quate support staff. Experienced Malawian research scientists are now
returning from overseas postgraduate training in increasing numbers,



- 7 -
enabling the establishment of both greater continuity and technical depth
in the senior posts. Planning and coordination of research programs still
need improvement; the delegation of considerable authority to station
officers-in-charge to plan their research programs has led to duplication
of effort and cost-ineffective allocation of expenditure.
D. Present Staffing
Staff Profile
2.06      As of July 1, 1984, the DAR had a total establishment of 491
technical and professional posts, of which 412 (84%) were filled. Present
staffing, comprised of 85 (21%) professional and 327 (79%) non-
professionals, is summarized in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: DAR Staff Establishment
Staff ranks and responsibilities         Establishment      Filled Posts
No.       %        No.       Z
I.    Superscale Officers
ranking professional officers
at higher salary levels;               33        (7)      21        (5)
primarily research station and
department managers.
II.   Professional Officers (PO)
B.Sc. or advanced degrees;
researchers without rank.             68        (14)      64       (15)
III.  Technical Officers (TO)
Agriculture diploma graduates;
field staff who lay-out and
monitor trials, laboratory
technicians, research station         114       (23)      89       (22)
farm managers.
IV.   Technical Assistants (TA)
Agriculture certificate
recipients; field assistants;        276        (56)    238        (58)
Total                           491       (100)    412       (100)
2.07      Of DAR's 85 professional research officers, only 21 now have
advanced degrees (4 PhDs and 17 MScs) while 27 are engaged in advanced
degree training overseas financed by USAID and ODA (13 PhDs and 14 MScs).



Even with this large training program, only 48 (56%) of DAR's professional
research staff will be advanced degree recipients or candidates by the
commencrment of the proposed project. DAR's sup3rscale vacancies are being
held for those who are returning from advanced degree training and who are
expected to contribute significantly to agricultural research.
Staff Recruitment, Evaluation and Promotion
2.08      DAR recruits its professional and technical staff from Bunda
College of Agriculture and the Natural Resources College. Professional
staff have BSc degrees, Technical Officers have a three-year diploma and
Technical Assistants a tw--year Certificate in Agriculture. DAR has not
been aggressive in its recruitment and has not held career days at colleges
or instituted summer intern programs, as have private enterprises. DAR has
had less difficulty in filling openings for professional and technical
staff than in attracting the highest quality of recruits.
2.09     Prior to the preparation of the proposed project DAR had no job
descriptions for its staff, and thus criteria for the assessment of
potential recruits for promotions were not clear. Currently, mnn gers
prepare annual confidential assessments of their staff using standard
evaluation forms which are finally transmitted to the Public Service
Commission (PSC) for review. The evaluation format is fairly compre-
hensive, but it lacks both an adequate assessment of quality of output and
a system of feedback to the staff on their performance. The evaluation
process has not been used in the assessment of staff training needs.
Recommendations for promotion form part of the annual evaluation, although
until recently promotion of both DAR professional and technical staff was
by examination in which administrative procedure was a major component.
Since 1983, PSC has ruled that promotion of civil servants should be by
interview on issues related to their field of competence. Promotion to
superscale posts has become the only method for government to remunerate
staff for outstanding performance and is dependent upon the existence of a
suitable vacancy. In DAR, the promotional ladder is constrained by the
small number of lower level superscale posts. It is important that the
allocation of posts be adjusted to conform to a more pyramidal structure.
Promotion should not be dependent upon the movement into research station
management; and to date this has imposed a considerable strain on the small
pool of experienced scientists.
DAR Staff Training
2.10      DAR's researchers generally have had little operational
experience outside of the Department. To compensate, DAR in-service
training has included advanced degree programs abroad and short courses
delivered by the International Agricultural Research Centers (IARCs) and
other overseas research institutions. CIP and CIMMYT have also conducted
workshops in Malawi. Training at the IARCs provides valuable international
contacts and exchanges of information, but careful selection is essential
to ensure maximum value. The Department is aiming to have all its
prefessional research staff trained to MSc level or above by the end of the
e tlry.



- 9 -
2.11      To date, DAR has not actively planned its in-service training
program, or sought out institutions to deliver the required training,
either in Malawi or abroad. Until preparation of the proposed project,
no-one in DAR was responsible for developing a staff training program and
no evaluation had been made of the quality of research and staff capacity
problems with identification of major degree and non-degree training
needs. The program to date has not included management training, nor
training in planning and budgeting for which there will be an increasing
need under DAR's proposed reorganization (paras 3.10-3.13). Also, there is
no program of short-term refresher courses for technical staff.
E. Commodity Research
2.12      An analysis of the 1983/84 research program expenditure by
commodities indicates the highest expenditure to be on cotton (21.5Z),
horticulture (16.7%) and rice (15.2%). Contrary to the current production
importance of maize and groundnuts, only 7.6Z and 5.2X respectively of the
total was budgeted for those commodities. While research allocations are
affected by many factors, the figures do indicate that commodity
allocations have become seriously out of balance with current crop
production and potential; the correction of this imbalance is important to
making the research program more effective.
2.13      There is considerable overlap of responsibility for managing
commodity research programs, but there has been inadequate communication
and coordination between the researchers involved. This has particularly
characterized the programs in maize and grain legumes (e.g., beans, ground-
nuts, and soya). Quality (if the research is variable, and improvement has
been prejudiced by the common failure to analyse and write up results.
2.14      The major crop commodity programs involve a combination of
breeding, cultivar selection, agronomy and pest and disease control trials
distributed over a number of sites. Livestock research by the DAR
currently involves breed improvement and evaluation of different animal
feeds. Other important research programs cover pasture improvement, farm
machinery and grain storage. Programs supported by USAID since 1979/80
include those on maize, groundnuts, beans, wheat, sunflower, fruits and
vegetables, rootcrops, livestock and pastures. A new ICRISAT regional
program is concerned principally with the testing of groundnut germplasm
for resistance to the various groundnut pests and diseases prevalent in the
region. Phaseolus bean research for DAR has been conducted at Bunda
College, with recent research principally focussed in the Northern Region.
2.15      Research on the five types of tobacco produced by Malawi is
undertaken by the Tobacco Research Authority (TRA), a statutory body
established under the Special Crops Act in 1980. The Authority is funded
by the industry, a levy of MKO.07/kg being collected on all tobacco sold
over the auction floors; technical assistance and training are provided by
UNDP and ODA.  Tobacco research is currently conducted at two main sites
and covers breeding, agronomy and curing programs. Regular field days and
annual reports help promote the transfer of research findings to farmers.
Responsibilities for tea research were taken over from Government by the
tea industry in 1959, and research is now largely funded from a cess raised
on the sale of tea by the industry. This is supplemented by sale of tea
from research plots and from a UNDP grar.t for research on smallholder tea.



- 10 -
Agronomy, horticulture, plant protection and plant improvement programs are
underway and the regular transfer of results to growers is achieved through
distribution of quarterly newsletters and through the direct provision of
advice on request. The Tea Research Foundation (TRF) currently leads
international research on tea.
F. Technical Services
2.16      Technical services provided by DAR include soil and plant
analyses, soil survey, crop protection (pathology, entomology and nema-
tology), plant quarantine, seed certification and library services.
2.17      Routine soil analyses are carried out at both Chitedze and
Bvumbwe Agricultural Research Stations on samples submitted by research
staff, the extension service and by the estate sub-sector. Samples sub-
mitted by the extension service have declined steadily over the past ten
years from relatively high levels. The Chitedze and Bvumbwe laboratories
also carry out analyses of plant material, water samples, feedstuffs and
fertilizers. Soil chemistry research is carried out in the Chitedze labor-
atories and soil physics research at Bvumbwe. New soil laboratories have
just been constructed under the USAID/University of Florida project at
Bvumbwe for which selected equipment is also being provided. The dilapida-
tion of the soils laboratories at Chitedze jeopardizes effective opera-
tions. The Soil Survey Unit, which has operated separately from the soil
physics and chemistry laboratories, is located in unsatisfactory buildings
in Lilongwe. The Unit is responsible for soil surveys throughout Malawi.
This comprises field investigations involving the description, sampling and
mapping of soils, soil analyses and the preparation of soil survey reports.
This relatively small Unit has been fully engaged in ad hoc soil surveys,
and requests for such surveys have kept the unit fully occupied.  Inade-
quate staff time, laboratory and operating costs have prevented the imple-
mentation of a planned systematic survey of the whole country.
2.18      Responsibility for crop protection is divided between the
Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR) and DAR. The MFNR is
concerned with vertebrate pests while DAR is concerned with crop protection
against invertebrate pests, diseases and weeds. Within DAR, crop protec-
tion activities are concentrated at the three m-jor research stations and
reflect the agronomic specialization of the station. Coordination is weak,
a well-defined program is lacking and individual specialists work on a day-
to-day basis on problems as they arise.
2.19      Seed certification and the licensing of approved seed growers is
carried out by the Seed Technology Unit at Chitedze. The Unit works
closely with the National Seed Company, which gives it financial support.
The unit examines seed purity, freedom from pathogens, physical condition
and viability.
2.20      The present Plant Quarantine station at Bvumbwe consists of small
quarantine greenhouses and pla-.t destruction facilities. A larger, taller
greenhouse for imported sugar cane, supplied by SUCOMA, has also recently
been installed. The plant quarantine station is poorly situated relative
to the principal importation port of Lilongwe.



- 11 -
2.21      DAR's main library is located at Chitedze Research Station and
houses 200 periodical titles, about 3,000 catalogued bound volumes and
about 5000 uncatalogued volumes. About 500 additional volumes are on loan
to other station libraries. A wide range of up-to-date journals is
regularly received by CLitedze, including some highly specialized and.
expensive journals that are rarely used. There is a need to update the
collection of specialized reference books.
2.22      The DAR library system does not provide a useful reference
service for research. As the collection is not subject catalogued,
articles are difficult to locate; moreover no library systems are in place
to facilitate broader reference searches. None of DAR's libraries has an
up- o-date record of the other libraries collections, and inter-library
loans are therefore not feasible. Periodicals are circulated from Chitedze
to the other stations, but the process is slow and often results in losses;
thus research staff have difficulty in keeping up-to-date. Due to chronic
inadequacies in the libraries' operating budgets, journals were last bound
in 1973 and there is now a backlog of roughly 2,200 volumes. The physical
facilities at Chitedze library are cramped with inadequate reading room and
shelving space. DAR has no library budget, and operating expenses are
financed out of the general station budget.
2.23      DAR has no professional level librarians; the Chitedze library
being staffed with one TA and the other libraries by unspecialized clerical
officers. Ten man-months of technical assistance is being financed by
JSAID in 1984 to begin subject cataloging and identification and filling of
some of the gaps in the journal series. Standard indexing is being used
wherever possible, but the overall task is likely to be lengthy.
G. Research-Extension Linkages and Farming Systems Research
2.24      The link between the research staff of DAR and the extension
staff of the DOA (para 1.08) relies largely on contact between the CAO and
CARO and informal initiatives of individual extension staff to ascertain
information. The CARO has been assisted by a itesearch Liaison Officer who
channels queries from extension to appropriate DAR staff, and requests
researchers to summarize their technical recommendations for use by exten-
sion staff. However, this approach has been fundamentally inadequate.
inadequate. Although there is some direct contact between extension and
research staff, information flows are inadequate; extension staff are
unaware of recent research findings, and research progra.ns are inadequately
focused on farmers' problems. Many extension recommendations have remained
unchanged for many years. Extension Aids materials offer blanket rather
than locally specific recommendations. Meanwhile, the Agricultural
Handbook of Malawi, which includes all of the basic extension recommenda-
tions, has not been updated since 1971. Its large format makes revision
prohibitively expensive, and its size makes it unsuitable for field use.
2.25      Improvement of the formal and informal linkages between research
and extension will be essential if the research/extension system is to
become more effective. Establishment of farming system research capacity
will have an increasingly important role in bringing agricultural research
and extension more closely together, and should be responsible for rapid



- 12 -
diagnosis of the farmers' major social, economic and technical problems
within the existing farming system. In late 1983, DAR identified staff,
some with considerable field experience, to form four adaptive research
teams and began a series of orientation seminars with CIMMNT and USAID
support.
H. Linkages with International and Regional Research
2.26      As a small and relatively poor country, Malawi will never be able
to generate all the research technology that it needs. Therefore, maximum
use should be made of technology generated elsewhere that can be modified
appropriately. There is already quite extensive cooperation with several
of the IARCs, taking the form of research for center scientists, dispatch
of materials for testing and participation in training programs.   Several
of these programs are regional in scope. Under recently initiated SADCC
sponsorship, ICRISAT is initiating a major sorghum and pearl millet program
centered in Zimbabwe. A CDA program on soil and water management is
planned to be based in Botswana. IITA,.CIAT and ICRISAT are considering a
possible grain-legume program to be based in Malawi. Plans for ECA/FAO to
establish a regional maize research program in Zamiba are in an advanced
stage. The potential benefits for cooperation in these iuternational and
regional programs are likely to be in the areas of varietal improvement of
several of Malawi's major food crops.
1. Reports and Publications
2.27      Analysis, interpretation and publication of results by DAR has
been allowed to lapse and the last Annual Report on Research was published
in 1974. Selected station reports have been printed more frequently.
However, results relating to the full range of Malawi's ecological zones
are not being drawn together for use. There is also no national journal of
agricultural research and few, if any, Malawi-based articles have been
published in the last few years in any of the international agricultural
research journals. There is an urgent need, therefore, for the DAR to
bring its publications up to date.
J. Development and Recurrent Budget
2.28      DAR's development budget totalled nearly MK3.1 a (US$2.3 m equi-
valent) for 1983/84 and is about MK2.6 m (US$2.0 m equivalent) for 1984/85.
Ninety-two percent and 94% respectively were financed externally. From
1979/80 to 1983/84, DAR's development budget increased nearly thirtee-fold
in real terms from a very small base, while the percentage financed exter-
nally remained constant. Over the period, British ODA assistance declined,
and external financing has been supplied by a USAID-financed NRDP Research
Project and IDA financing of central services for NRDP. DAR has demon-
strated a good record in providing the matching funds required for project
financing. However, such local financing has often been accomplished by
underfinancing other ongoing DAR activities.
2.29      As of FY84/85, DAR's recurrent budget allocation is about MK3.4 m
(US$2.5 m equivalent), of which about MKO.17 m (US$0.13 m equivalent) is
expected to be returned to the Treasury in revenues from bulk cropping.
DAR's recurrent budget increased by 61% in real terms between FY8O/81 and
FY82/83. This was in keeping with GOM's commitment under SAL I to provide



- 13 -
adequate finance to the Ministry of Agriculture and particularly for criti-
cal agricultural services including research (para. 1.16). However, with
the onset of Malawi's fiscal difficulties in FY83, the budget allocated to
MOA increased nominally by only 2% and declined in real terms by about 11%
between FY82/83 and FY83/84. MOA's allocation to DAR's operating budget
declined nominally by 1% and in real terms by 14% in that period; alloca-
tion for DAR's research programs, services and overheads declined sharply,
by over 20% in real terms (8.2% nominally).
2.30      Overheads and administrative costs for DAR's extensive station
network currently absorb nearly 50% of its recurrent budget. These
overheads are particularly excessive in the context of the small research
staff of most scations: while overheads in DAR's three largest stations
averaged about MK7,000 per researcher in FY83/84, overheads for the
remaining stations averaged over MK 35,000 per researcher. In DAR's
1984/85 budget eq'4mates, research work absorbs only 31% of the recurrent
budget. DAR's high fixed costs and GOM's current fiscal difficulties are
together considerably restricting funds that DAR has available for research
programs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Sector StrategS and Project Rationale
3.01      IDA's assistance strategy to Malawi's agricultural sector is one
of long-term institutional development. This focuses principally on
strengthening national systems - principally agricultural research,
extension and planning - that can be pivotal in expanding agricultural
production, improving diversification and marginal productivity, and
increasing export earnings. The proposed lending operation, focusing on
research, and the proposed Agricultural Extension and Planning Support
Project are thus interwoven as first stage efforts in the long-term program
of central systems development. Proposed assistance to MOA's planning
division aims to develop a consensus on its functions and to help
strengthen its staffing so that it can provide continuing technical advice
to policy-makers on investment priorities and sector structure in light of
Malawi's comparative advantage, as well as pricing policy analysis.
Strengthening of research capacity would help DAR to improve its planning,
management, technical proficiency, and relevance of research to farmers'
needs and economic priorities. Strengthening of the extension system would
assist DOA to improve the technical competence and information base of
extension staff, and the methods of farmer outreach.
3.02      The World Bank's recent report, Toward Sustained Development:
A Joint Program of Action for Sub-Saharan Africa (1984), emphasizes the
importance of strengthening agricultural research capacity in the region,
including both applied and adaptive research; and of developing more
effective use of existing research capacity by helping to improve both the
focus, continuity and coherence of research programs and the linkages
between research and extension. In the case of Malawi, as a recent IDA
Malawi Agricultural Diversification Study and the NRDP Review have pointed
out, improvements in the relevance and quality of agricultural research
will be critical to developing suitable commodities for import substitution



- 14 -
and export growth, and to expand smallholder output generally. With the
land frontier being rapidly approached, at least for the smallholder
sector, and generally low yields now being obtained, there is considerable
need to increase yields and to increase efficiency of resource use by
shifting production patterns into those with higher marginal returns.
These objectives are particularly critical in light of Malawi's current
fiscal problems and consequent need to improve cost-effectiveness and
agricultural returns. Research in Malawi has a key role to play in this
regard.
B. Project ObJectives and Summary Description
3.03      The proposed project would aim to improve the focus and quality
of Malawi's smallholder-oriented agricultural research program; formulate
an overall strategy (master plan) for agricultural research; strengthen
critical linkages, particularly between the research and extension pro-
grams; and improve the efficiency and economy of DAR's ongoing activities.
This echoes recommendations of the 1981 World Bank Agricultural Research
Sector Policy Paper that Bank and IDA operations should assist in the
development of systems, including long-term efforts to improve research
planning and evaluation, cost-effectiveness, technical capacity,
insitutional rationalization, and linkages between research and extension
systems. The proposed project would focus on developing the human resource
base and institutional framework needed to carry out relevant agricultural
research. This would be the first phase of a long-term effort to build up
this technical capability. New research priorities could emerge by Project
Year 3 as a result of the master plan to be formulated and financed under
the project. Systems of annual planning and review to be established under
the project should be well underway by that time. The ultimate objectives
would be the development of new varieties, husbandry practices and farming
systems aimed at responding to farmers' regionally specific problems and
significantly increasing smallholder production and incomes.
3.04      The main features of the project, involving investments, policies
and institutional development, are as follows:
(i)    the creation of an Agricultural Research Council to advise on
research priorities;
(ii)   the rationalization of DAR's station network including the
elimination of some stations, and the relocation of staff; and
parallel improvements in remaining physical facilities, including
investments in civil works and equipment;
(iii)  the reorganization of DAR into multidisciplinary research teams,
and the introduction of management and systems improvements
(including task planning and budgeting, improved data processing
and retrieval and routine planning and evaluation exercises)
designed to improve cost-effectiveness;
(iv)   the introduction of a technical career stream, staff evaluation
system, training need identification procedures, and the pr-
vision of training and technical assistance for DAR staff;



- 15 -
(v)    intensified collaboration with International Agricultural
Research Centers and Regional Research Institutes, and the
introduction of a contract research program with national
non-governmental research centers;
(vi)   improvement in extension-research linkages through the
establishment of Adaptive Research Teams and research- extension
workshops, and development of locally-specific extension
recommendations; and
(vii) improved economy and efficiency in ongoing activities, largely
through reduction in administrative costs, overheads and vehicle
running costs, and reallocation of DAR budgeting proceeds to
sustain the above new activities.
C. Detailed Features
1. Establishment of an Agricultural Research Council
3.05      An Agricultural Research Council (ARC), broadly representative of
major Malawian interests in agricultural development, would be constituted
under the project as a policy advisory board. The Council would include:
the Controller of Agricultural Services as Chairman, the CARO (ex officio),
the CAO, the Chief Veterinary Officer, the Chief Forestry Officer, Secre-
tary of the National Research Council, representative(s) of the University
of Malawi, representatives of the Tea Research Foundation, Tobacco Research
Authority, the sugar plantations, the Estates Advisory Board, and the
Economic Planning Division. Such representation would enable the Council
to give policy guidance to DAR and to support DAR in its role as a major
contributor to overall agricultural development.
'.06      The ARC's policy responsibilities would include:
gi)    Ensuring that the agricultural research strategy is consistent
with the availability of finances and the allocation of prior-
ities, and conforms to national goals for agricultural develop-
ment. A key element would be production of a flexible
agricultural research master plan, which would be a blueprint
laying out the research strategy over a 5-10 year period (para.
4.13). The ARC would review and recommend adjustments as needed
in the master plan.
(iii) Reviewing DAR's annual research program; ensuring that the needed
resources for agricultural research are provided to DAR.
(iv)   Advising on areas where donor assistance is required; and
coordinating and monitoring the activities of all donors to the
agriculture research system of Malawi to ensure that these are
consistent with the Master Plan and that they do not result in
the distortion of research programs, the misallocation of
resources and the commitment to programs which have excessive
operatiotial costs in the long term.



- 16 -
(v)    Ensuring that funds are available for contract research
(paras. 3.33 - 3.34), that such research is properly oriented to
the needs of the country, and that the results are delivered in a
timely fashion.
To carry out its responsibilities in an effective manner the Council would
set up a Secretariat which would be responsible for developing the research
master plan jointly with CARO's staff, reviewing DAR's annual program and
budget, and organizing triennial reviews of the research system. The pro-
ject would finance an advisor to the ARC for a minimum of three person-
years, particularly to assist in formulating the Master Plan, with the
option to extend his contract for continued advice on program planning;
salaries and benefits of incremental staff for the Secretariat; travel and
subsistence costs for ARC members to attend the meetings; and other
operating costs, principally for the Secretariat and Triennial Review.
2. DAR Infrastructure Consolidation and Improvement
3.07      A phased reduction of the present over-extensive research
station network would reduce the escalating costs of maintaining stations
with small research programs and would release such funds for more
intensive and well-focused research work. The current network of eleven
main research stations, nine substations, and over 220 trial sites would be
reduced to three main stations, three substations, and nine trial sites
(Table 3.1). This consolidation has been approved at the highest levels of
Government. The three major stations would be Chitedze, Bvumbwe, and
Lunyangwa in the Central, Southern and Northern regions respectively. One
new trial site would be constructed in the North at Mkondezi, an otherwise
unrepresented eco-agricultural zone, for research on tropical fruits and
roots/tubers. Great care has been taken to ensure that all of Malawi's
arable ecological zones are represented by this consolidated network and
that research services (para. 2.16) are available regionally. Excess
infrastructure would be taken over by other GOM departments (para. 4.06).
3.08      Most Commodity Teams would be located at the main stations,
depending on the major commodities grown in the area. This consolidation
of staff into teams with agreed work programs and a common home base would
eliminate duplication and improve overall coordination of commodity
research (para. 2.13). The three main stations would house the National
(multicommodity) Research Coordinators (NRCs) and Commodity Team Leaders
(CTLs) (Chart C-7).
3.09      The project would construct and rehabilitate research buildings
and required housing; provide much-needed scientific equipment, farm
machinery and vehicles, and office equipment/furniture; and relocate 215
staff. In terms of civil works: (i) the central buildings at Chitedze
would be rehabilitated and expanded including construction of new admini-
strative and library buildings, and soils and plant nutrition laboratories;
(ii) Bvumbwe library, laboratories and selected other facilities would be
renovated; (iii) Lunyangwa's laboratory, library and office facilities
would be expanded; (iv) land will be prepared and laboratory, office, and
other buildings would be constructed at Mkondezi for a new trial site;
(v) 115 staff houses built and 62 rehabilitated to accommodate relocated
staff in remote locations; and (vi) other minor works undertaken.



- 17 -
Table 3.1:  Consolidation of Research Infrastructure
New Network
Main      Sub-    Trial
Station   Station   Site      Closed
Former Full
Stations
1.    Baka                                     x
2.    Lunyangwa/Choma                x
3.    Mbawa                                                        x
4.    Chitala                                            x
5.    Lifuwu                                   x
6.    Chitedze                       x
7.    Makoka                                                       x
8.    Bvumbwe                        x
9.    Kasinthula                               x
10.   Ngabu                                              x
11.   Makhanga                                                     x I/
Former Sub-
Stations
1.    Meru                                               x
2.    Wovwe/Hara                                                   x
3.    Bolero                                             x
4.    Limphasa                                                     x
S.    Lisasadzi                                                    x
6.    Bembeke                                            x
7.    Tsangano                                           x
8.    Thuchila                                                     x
Former Trial Sites
1.    About 220 trial sites                                        x
2.    Nehenachena                                        x
3.    Liwonde                                            x
To Be Added
1.    Mkondezi                                           x
3         3         9       227
1/ Except for fruit trials, supervised by one TA. The rice team would
remain at Lifuwu, a substation of Chitedze, and the sorghum/millet and
irrigation/drainage teams would continue to be located at Kasinthula,
a substation of Bvumbwe, to avoid the expense of duplicating their
facilities elsewhere. Bunda College would remain the location for
work on Phaseolus beans.



- 18 -
3. Reorganization, Management and Systems Improvements
3.10      Reorganization.  DAR's proposed reorganization (Charts C-5, C-6)
is designed to facilitate research priority-setting, relation of research
resource allocation to the importance of commodities, and improvement in
the quality and output of the research system. The Chief Agricultural
Research Officer would be supported by two Deputy CAROs, one in charge of
research programs, the other in charge of technical services and admini-
strative matters. The arrangement would allow the CARO more time for
managing the research system; it would also provide him with sources of
information for planning and monitoring research and improving the
allocation of staff and other resources. At the operational level the
major reorganization would be a change in the research station management
structure such that the officers-in-charge of some 11 stations, who
formerly had direct responsibility for all activities at the station, would
be freed of administrative duties in order to focus full-time on research
programs, and the management of the station would be vested in station
administrators with more limited purview. The responsibilities of the
station administrators to be instituted under the project would include:
(i) administration of the common services of the station including library
facilities, maintenance of the experiment station and grounds, buildings,
and utilities, and labor resource allocation; (ii) supervision of the farm
manager; (iii) allocation of pooled resources at the station, including
transport and farm ]3bor, to research programs, according to previously
agreed priorities; and (iv) preparation of an annual budget for operation
of station activities for which the administrator is responsible. The
administrator would be assisted in these tasks by a station advisory
committee, comprised of the station's scientists and chaired by the
station's most senior scientist, which would meet at monthly intervals.
3.11      DAR would organize its researchers into multidisciplinary
commodity (applied) and adaptive research teams,and service teams. The
applied research program would be organized into five commodity-oriented
programs: cereal crops; fruits, vegetables and tree crops; grain legumes,
oliseeds and fibers; livestock and pastures; and engineering and land
husbandry. Each applied research program, the adaptive research program
(for more locally-specific testing), and DAR's technical services would be
managed by a National Research Coordinator responsible to a Deputy CARO.
In cereals, for example, there would be four multidisciplinary teams, one
each for maize, wheat and barley, rice and sorghum/millet, each led by a
Commodity Team Leader who would be responsible for the development and
implementation of the research program.
3.12      The above commodity research teams would be structured to develop
generally applicable recommendations on varietal use and animal and land
husbandry techniques. However, their findings could not be expected to be
suitable to each locality. Adaptive research teams would therefore also be
established: (i) to identify farmers' key problems and the available
blanket recommendations that could be relevant, and (ii) to develop
recommendations regarding input use and husbandry, tailored to local
agronomic, social, and economic conditions. The commodity teams would
operate nationally, while the adaptive research teams would operate
locally. The commodity research programs would operate principally within
the research station network, including trial sites covering all of



- 19 -
Malawi's major ecological zones. The adaptive research program would be
conducted on farmers' fields. Thus, commodity research teams would conduct
their research under experiment station conditions with optimum levels of
management. On the other hand, adaptive research would test inputs under
prevailing farm conditions, as well as test various farm management regimes
to develop models that would be agronomically productive and
socio-economically acceptable to the farmer.
3.13      To make this system work, the adaptive research teams (ARTs)
would work closely with the ADD level extension service to identify
farmers' problems, conduct on-farm trials, and generate locally-specific
extension recommendations (paras. 3.36 - 3.38). The commodity research
teams (CRTs) would confer regularly with both adaptive research and
extension staff (paras. 3.38 - 3.42).
3.14      Management and Systems Improvements.  The project would provide
for introduction of a task-oriented program and budgeting system. Instead
of research and technical service funds being allocated by station, they
would be assigned through the relevant National Research Coordinator to
each Commodity Team Leader, Adaptive Research Team Leader, or Technical
Service Unit Chief and, through them to the manager of each specific
project. Funds for station overheads would be allocated to the facilities'
administrative officers. In this manner, the budget system would support
the new management functions to be introduced under the reorganization
(paras. 3.10 - 3.11). Personal accountability would be introduced by
placing researchers in charge of managing the budgets for their projects.
During project preparation, budget accounting categories were redesigned by
DAR's Financial Controller to identify each specific research program, each
type of service, and overheads. Though trial runs were done in FY83/84 and
84/85, these were primarily to test flows of reporting; funds could not be
allocated on this basis as commodity and adaptive research teams were not
yet operating. Assistance being provided under a Project Preparation
Facility and proposed under the project would continue to further refine
the system, help in planning and managing its implementation, and monitor-
ing performance. This assistance would include financing of technical
assistance, staff training, and operating costs.
3.15      The proposed system would permit DAR to come to grips with the
real costs of each research activity. This would permit them to (i) make
informed choices about redesign of research proposals to increase cost-
effectiveness, and (ii) ensure that resource allocations are adequate to
yield results, and rationed according to relative priorities of the con-
tending programs. The proposed budget system would therefore provide a
mechanism for (i) assigning priorities to various activities; (ii) ensuring
that the planned funds are available for the identified research projects;
and (iii) monitoring expenditures to help control overspending and
excessive reallocations.
3.16      Program Planning and Review.  The focus and therefore relevance
and quality of research would be improved through a structured annual
review and planning exercise (para. 4.12). A draft indicative research
program for 1985/86 has already been prepared by DAR and improvements
suggested by IDA during post-appraisal discussions (para. 4.09). The
program proposed for 1985/86 includes continued programs on the major
commodities produced by smallholders in addition to new initiatives on land



- 20 -
preparation and fertilizer use. The finalized 1985/86 program would be of
a pro tea nature, since the development of the research master plan might
lead to substantial changes in the decisions on priorities and implemen-
tation of research over the next 5 years. Research programs would focus on
production constraints of crops and livestock that have current or poten-
tial comparative advantage and reasonable marketing prospects, domestically
or internationally. Research on farming systems would also be a priority
since it focuses on the value of output froma the combined resources of
land, labor and other inputs. Research would address the sub-optimal use
of existing technology and also focus on the generation of new technology,
in order to expand the overall production function.
3.17      Prior to submisslon of each subsequent fiscal year's budget, the
DAR management, including the NRCs, would review and evaluate the quality,
productivity, and cost of each research program from the previous season.
They would also evaluate each program proposed for the next year in terms
of its content and budgetted cost, and importance to the national economy
as reflected in DAR's strategic long-term plan (para. 3.06(i)). The man-
agement would also present a program and budget paper annually to the ARC
for review and adjustment.
3.18      Every third year, the whole research program  would be reviewed
in depth by a group consisting of a distinguished, experienced research
administrator with international and tropical experience (serving as the
Team Leader), two other experienced external reviewers, with specializa-
tions in two of the major commodities of the research program, an experi-
enced social scientist from the University of Malawi community, and a
senior member of the extension staff. One member of the team would have
particular responsibility for assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of
the adaptive research program. The ARC would organize these triennial
reviews (para. 4.13). The project cost includes the operating costs of
such annual and Triennial reviews.
3.19      Strengthening of DAR Library and Data Processing System.
Technical assistance, operating costs, civil works, equipment, furniture,
and publications acquisitions would be provided to strengthen DAR's library
system and data processing capacity. Library services would be improved,
the main library at Chitedze expanded, and DAR's smaller libraries
consolidated into two satellite libraries at Bvumbwe and Lunyangwa Research
Stations. DAR would appoint a full-time Head librarian at Chitedze,
assisted by a librarian TA, and two full-time librarian TAs at Bvumbwe and
Lunyangwa. The Head Librarian would be trained to Master of Library
Science level and the TAs would participate in short-term training
including workshops organized by the Malawi Library Association. With
3.5 person years of foreign expert assistance, this staff would put the
library collection in order and make it accessible. This would entail
subject cataloging of the entire collection, filling gaps in journal
series, and binding or replacing journal volumes. An inclusive set of the
DAR core collection will be maintained at Chitedze. After stock has been
taken of the libraries' current collection, the project would provide for
acquisition of materials to complete a relevant core collection in
agricultural research. For certain specialized parts of the collection
germane to the research programs of the other main stations, originals will
be retained at the main station specializing in that field (e.g.,
horticulture at Bvumbwe) and copies will be retained at Chitedze.



- 21 -
3.20      A new main library building would be constructed, equipped and
furnished.  This will be 820 sq. m., roughly 4.5 times the present
library's size, dimensioned to permit a 5% per annum increase in the
collection for 10 years, and to enable longer-term expansion of the
collection into a Ministry-wide library. Equipment would be supplied to
permit the cataloging and circulation of the collection, with reduced risk
of losses. This would include a microfiche printer/reader for the main
library and two microfiche readers for the satellite libraries. This would
ensure that all research staff, wherever posted would have rapid access to
the scientific literature essential for their work.
3.21      Measures would be established to improve the acquisitions
procedure of the library; circulation of matcrial; library utilization; and
predictability of operating funds. An explicit budget for the library
would be established. This would be part of the proposed DAR programming
and budgeting system to be instituted under the n-nject. The library would
acquire the journals necessary to support the research program, including
the abstract journals. Additional materials, books, periodicals would be
procured as necessary, following consultation between the librarian and a
small group of the scientists, organized as a Library Advisory Committee.
By project completion, it is expected that the library would become a more
responsive reference system, entailing (i) an accessible and complete data
base of DAR, including files and computer records; (ii) a responsive, well-
trained staff, and (iii) utilization systews and software that are compat-
ible with the possibility of a broadened future mandate to serve the entire
ministry.
3.22      Thie orientation of DAR's biometrics and data processing Unit woud
be changed under the project from providing routine data processing
services to providing economic analyses to support strategic planning of
the research program (paras. 3.06, 3.16-3.17). The capacity of this unit
would be strengthened with long-term internationally recruited technical
asaistance in production economics and a staff of at least two Malawian
agricultural economists. To permit this shift in emphasis and improve
DAR's data processing and retrieval capacity, the commodity and adaptive
research teams would be trained in biometrics and other data processing
techniques; computers would be provided under the project, with work
stations at headquarters, the Commodity Research Teams, and library. The
hardware would be compatible with the MOA computers utilized for central
planning purposes and by ADD management. This capacity would be used to
record, adjust and monitor planning and budgeting information and research
results. The library's computer would be used to tap into a global data
base for agricultural reference information. Further, all trials records
and annual reports would be deposited in the Chitedze library at the end of
each crop year.
3.23      Publications Development.  The project would provide financing
for DAR to re-introduce the timely publication of an annual report. Such
reports would provide an opportunity for a critical evaluation of the past
years' research and by presenting negative as well as positive results,
prevent the repetition of unproductive work. The project would also assist
DAR to publish a Research Bulletin regularly, summarizing research work
being carried out over a number of years. Staff of DAR would also be
encouraged to publish their more important findings in international
journals.



- 22 -
4.  Strengthening of DAR Technical Capacity and Improved Career &z-elorment
3.24      Job description development.  As part of project preparation, DAR
has prepared summary job descriptions for all types of positions from CARO
to TO (Table 2.1), delineating major administrative and substantive
responsibilities and formal qualifications. During project implementation
these job descriptions would be adjusted as needed, and the jobs disaggre-
gated into tasks and skill requirements. Special attention would be given
to tasks which the staff member should be able to accomplish without close
supervision, and the sorts of guidance managers should be able to give, and
to whom. Taken in aggregate, these job descriptions would describe DAR's
operational system. Most importantly, they would provide clear criteria
for assessing potential recruits and making judgments about staff perform-
ance and promotional aspects. Costs of this exercise would be subsumed in
DAR's current administrative costs.
3.25      Recruitment.  Guided by the above criteria, DAR has undertaken to
recruit degree graduates more aggressively. DAR would organize career days
at the University of Malawi early in the students' recruitment cycle and
would publicize the DAR staff training program and promotional possibili-
ties and solicit applications from outstanding graduates.
3.26      Staff evaluation.  The task and skill breakdowns of DAR's job
descriptions to be introduced under the project (para. 3.24) would be used
to help managers analyze staffs' skill gaps. A system would be established
to link staff supervision and evaluation with development of staff work
programs and the staff training program (para. 4.22). The formal annual
evaluation process would be modified to allow staff members themselves to
ci) identify the areas in which they feel they need increased guidance,
work experience, and training and (ii) review and discuss their managers'
comments before they are finalized. A revised staff evaluation form which
would supplement the standard civil service format would be reviewed at
negotiations. These changes in the evaluation system are within MOA's
purview and would not require approval by the Personnel Management Training
Division of the Office of President and Cabinet (OPC). Additional costs
would be negligible.
3.27      Incentives and Career Growth. During negotiations agreement was
reached that by end-April, 1987, GOM would develop and formallv approve the
necessary regulations to implement a scientific career stream for DAR,
satisfactory to the Association (para. 6.05(vi)). This career stream
should permit high level advancement of scientists based on the auality and
contribution of their research, without requisite movement into managerial
roles. This would provide compensation for DAR's best scientists roughly
on a par with that at the University or in the Malawian private sector.
The current regulations, permitting such high level advancement only on
very exceptional grounds, could not establish adequate incentives to retain
DAR's best scientists. A Civil Service Review Commission financed by ODA
is now reviewing all aspects of civil service structure, including the
institution of scientific career streams,across a spectrum of ministries.
GOM has undertaken to make no changes in civil service policy pending its
review of the Commission's report in early 1985. By late 1985, it would be
reasonable for MOA to request a suitable promotion policy for DAR.



- 23 -
3.28      As part of project preparation, DAR has also changed the number
of posts assigned to each of its current civil service ranks, without
increasing the total posts, to create a more pyramidal structure. This has
removed past blockages to promotion, and DAR has begun to promote qualified
staff accordingly.
3.29      Inservice Training.  The project would finance both degree and
nondegree training, consisting of:
(i)    postgraduate training at Ph.D. level for National Coordinators
and selected Commodity Team Leaders, and at M.Sc. level for
Commodity Team Leaders a-d selected research officers, to provide
them with the necessary depth of academic background to undertake
research in their respective specialized fields;
(ii)   visits or attachments to research centers abroad for research
officers and senior research staff to broaden their experience of
research practices appropriate to their work program;
(iii)  short-term management and technical courses and workshops,
largely delivered in country in order to:
-  provide PO, TO, and TA staff with technical specialized
knowledge and job-specific skills;
-  ensure satisfactory performance of support staff (e.g., labor-
atory technicians, equipment operators, research station
administrative officers);
-  upgrade managers' skills in planning and management of
research programs, government procedures, and practical
management techniques;
-  orient research staff towards adaptive research and farm
systems concepts, and foster interchange between research and
extension staff; and
-  make researchers more effective in communication skills, to
improve their dissemination of existing and new research
information (Annex I, Table T-2).
The degree training schedule is one phase of a coherent long-term plan to
upgrade DAR's scientists. About 65% of the degree training, to be financed
by USAID, would be provided principally in the United States; the balance,
to be financed by IDA, would be provided in Europe and elsewhere. The
training and technical assistance schedules have been synchronized to
maximize collaboration between National Coordinator designates or Commodity
Team Leader designates and their consultant counterparts before and
particularly after training. DAR has attempted to select individuals for
training based on the importance and complexity of the Commodity program
they would manage; passage of the Graduate Record Examination for United
States programs would also be a determinant.



- 24 -
3.30      An internationally recruited Training Advisor would be financed
by USAID under its proposed National Agricultural Research and Extension
Project (para. 3.49) to assist DAR and DOA to develop an inservice training
program for research and extension (para. 4.21). An average of about 1,000
person- weeks of training would be delivered per year under the project,
covering all of DAR's management, scientific, and technical staff who are
in- country. This would amount to an average of 2.5 person-weeks of
training per annum for each DAR professional or technical staff member
currently in Malawi. An indicative training program for Project Year 1 was
developed during appraisal (Annex II, Table T-2, pages 3-7); the final plan
would be confirmed at negotiations. To facilitate the logistics of this
short-term training, reduce operating costs, and preserve the Chitedze
library for research purposes, the Colby College buildings located at
Chitedze Research Station, which have been vacated and donated to DAR,
would be rehabilitated as a DAR training center. These would include
classrooms, a conference room with audiovisual capacity, and dormitories.
3.31      Technical Assistance.  The project would provide 537 person-
months of long-term internationally recruited technical assistance and
57 person-months of short-term internationally recruited assistance
(Annex I, Table T-3). Long-term assistance would include 228 person-months
of assistance in DAR's institutional development in the form of a Programr-
ming and Budgeting Specialist/Financial Controller, adviser to the ARC,
librarian,and adaptive research economist a:-  agronomist.  The balance of
long-term technical assistance would entail a procurement specialist, and a
training advisor to assist both DAR and DOA, scientific and economic
specialists, primarily to assist selected National Coordinators and
Commodity Team Leaders to plan their research programs, and to help manage
these programs while the coordinators or team leaders are away for advanced
degree training. Short-term technical assistance would consist of brief
interventions (e.g., one to three months) to provide advice in specialized
areas.
5. Research Collaboration
3.32      Under the project, DAR's National Coordinators would be in close
touch with relevant international and regional programs and would be pro-
vided with funds for periodic visits (once every 2 to 3 years) to the major
centers of research. Commodity Team Leaders would also participate in
regional and international consultations (every 2 to 3 years) with research
centers in their fields. This would be programmed as part of the proposed
DAR training calendar. Areas of anticipated collaboration would include:
(i) sending trainees to CIMMYT and CIMMYT participation in the annual
program review, to advise on the maize breeding program; (ii) access to a
wide range of geruplasm for varietal testing through ICRISAT's regional
groundnut and sorghum programs and the CRSP supported Phaseolus bean
program at Bunda College; (iii) exchange of information with and an annual
visit to ICIPE on insect control; (iv) access to ILCA's comprehensive
literature survey on livestock research in Africa; and (v) closer links
with Zimoabwe's research service, especially on cotton research.
3.33      The very size and diversity of the many international, regional,
and bilateral programs cffering help to Malawi's research system (para.
2.26) inherently entail some risk of channelling DAR's attention and
resources into comparatively low priorities. Therefore, it would be one of



- 25 -
the important objectives of the research master plan (para. 3.06) to
decide, in discussion with these organizations, where the major inputs are
needed, and for the ARC to monitor these and to decide that they are indeed
contributing to the country's overall research objectives. Likewise under
the project, DAR both would evaluate training offers by international and
regional centers or institutes in terms of DAR research and staff develop-
ment priorities and would request the centers to design specific types of
training in such areas. Though CGIAR technical assistance is generally not
charged to national users, similar assistance from certain international
and regional centers (e.g., ICRAF) has been costed for the project.
Assistance by the Institute for Research in Agro-Forestry (ICRAF) would be
financed under the project to ensure an increased input and improved focus
on agro-forestry, including its inclusion in the adaptive research
programs.
3.34      Contract Research.  The project would capitalize on the human
resources of the University of Malawi (para. 2.14) and private research
entities (para. 2.15) by providing funds for contract research. DAR would
both elicit research proposals on areas of particular interest and vet
proposals in light of DAR's overall priorities. The ARC would manage the
funds for contract research, and would review and adjust the program
annually to ensure that DAR is mobilizing sufficient non-governmental
research expertise and that sufficient socio-economic analysis is being
undertaken to help DAR shape its program. Bunda College of Agriculture and
the Center for Social Research at Chancellor College are expected to be
involved immediately, followed by Chancellor's Planning Center of Applied
Sciences, and the Biology and Earth Sciences Departments. The Center for
Social Research would assist the Adaptive Research Teams to diagnose
smallholder problems and analyze reasons for non-adoption of available
extension packages.
3.35      The project would also fund development and operating costs of a
small estate coffee research facility at the Tea Research Foundation (TRF)
and support for two person-years of technical assistance to begin the
estate coffee program there. At project completion the coffee industry
would be responsible for financing the operating costs of estate coffee
research, exclusive of salaries/benefits of the DAR researchers. As a
condition of disbursement for estate coffee contract research, DAR would
provide the Association with: (i) an outline of the kind of support that
TRF would provide, including research guidance, library facilities and
laboratory back-up; and (ii) the proposed staffing pattern to carry out the
research, probably initially consisting of an agronomist and support staff
from DAR to be located at TRF and provision for a second research officer
in Project Year 3, as the problems of estate coffee research become more
defined (para. 6.04).
6. Linkages with the Extension System
3.36      Development of Adaptive Research Capacity.  Technical assistance,
M.Sc. and short-term training, civil works, equipment and vehicles, and
operating costs would be provided under the project to establish eight
Adaptive Research teams (ARTs) (para. 3.12) - 7 at ADD level and a coordi-
nation unit at headquarters. Each ART would be comprised of an agricul-
turalist and a socio-economist from DAR, supported by three technical
assistants, one from DAR and two from the extension service. The ART would



- 26 -
operate as part of the ADD, responding to the ADD's particular problems and
sharing information and advice with its extension staff. The intended
result of the program would be generation of locality-specific production
recommendations to be used by the ADD extension services. These would
include inter alia development of appropriate technical recommendations for
women, many of whom are heads of households.
3.37      To permit the ARTs to develop a modus operandi while tackling
relatively manageable problems, they would focus first on densely populated
areas which also have potential for relatively rapid increases in produc-
tion from technological improvements. The ARTs' work would have two major
stages: diagnostic and experimental. Through diagnostic surveys and use
of information from the ADDs' data banks, the ARTs would identify priority
problems in the above areas and the constraints impeding production, as
well as conditioning factors such as the flows of labor, material inputs,
input and farmgate prices and returns. In this process, the teams would
identify groups of farmers with common farming system problems which appear
amenable to common solutions.
3.38      The ARTs would consult relevant Commodity Team Leaders for
information on available technology that might be adapted to local
conditions; if a relevant solution could not be located, the problem would
be considered for inclusion in the DAR's applied research program.
Potentially relevant technology would be tested in three stages of trials,
over a number of years. The ARTs would design the experiments jointly with
the Commodity Research Teams and ADD Subject Matter Specialists. The
degree of farmer participation in managing the trial would depend on the
trial's objectives. ADD extension field assistants would help establish,
monitor, and harvest the second and third stages of trials. This would
acquaint them with the possible impact of the new technology on local
farming systems and the reactions of local farmers; contribute to
adjustment of trial design and interpretation of results; and facilitate
demonstration of the new techology to other extension staff and farmers.
The involvement of extension TAs would amount to no more than two weeks
each per cropping season, phased in small bits of time, to help in such
tasks as trial layout, planting, supervising treatments by farmers, and
trial harvesting. Involvement of extension staff has been carefully
planned, in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture, to ensure
their availability without undue interference in their other extension
activities.
3.39      Development of Extension Recommendations.  Under the project,
CRTs would immediately start to update the basic text of the extension
service, the Agricultural Handbook of Malawi, which would be published in
looseleaf form. Preparation of locally-specific extension recommendations
would be a direct outgrowth of the adaptive research program (para 4.27).
Though implementation arrangements to prepare these materials would be
established under this project, the time and costs involved would be
minimal and covered by DAR's and DOA's current operating expenditures; this
sub-component is therefore not costed separately.
3.40      Research-Extension Workshops.  Operating costs would be financed
by the project to introduce regular research-extension meetings at ADD
level and re-institute MOA's annual research-extension workshop.



- 27 -
3.41      The ADD level meetings would have two objectives:  (i) to draw
upon Commodity Research Specialists to help solve problems arising during
the growing season; and (ii) to make these researchers more cognizant of
field problems. Their contribution would take two forms: (i) programmed
visits by researchers to each ADD once a month to advise on routine
predictable issues (e.g., fertilizer application) and (ii) ad hoc responses
to crises, principally pest and disease outbreaks.  Each CRT would be
represented at least once per season in each ADD, as relevant to that ADD;
considering the importance of maize to Malawi's economy, maize specialists
would participate in each ADD's research-extension meeting every other
month. In addition to responding to ADD-level extension problems, these
meetings would strengthen the link between the CRTs, ARTs and ADD Subject
Matter Specialists and assist in the increased familiarization of research
staff with farmers' problems. For the sake of economy of ADD staff time,
the normal monthly ADD management meeting would usually provide the forum
for these research-extension meetings.
3.42      ADD review meetings would be held at the end of the growing
season.   These would be used to (i) prepare the ADD report for presen-
tation to the annual National Research-Extension Workshop (para. 3.43) and
(ii) systematically review the various extension messages being issued to
ascertain what updating and local specification is required.
3.43      Two crop-specific national research-extension meetings would be
held each year, and an annual National Research-Extension Workshop would be
held after the main growing season. The latter would be a strategy meeting
to review problems occurring in research-extension linkages, agree on
aspects requiring improvement, and propose suitable measures. To facili-
tate discussion and decision-making, participation would be narrower than
in the original national workshop, which was discontinued when its cumber-
some size made it unproductive. Improvements would be sought in: Ci) the
scope and effectiveness of the regular ADD workshops; (ii) the adequacy
including suitable local specificity of crop recommendations in available
extension publications and other aids; (iii) the programs, priorities,
operation and organization of the ARTs; and (iv) the relevance of DAR's
applied research program to ADD problems. To assist in clarifying the
agenda for (v) above, the meetings would discuss reports prepared by each
ADD on problems and future research needs, and by each commodity group on
the major elements of its research and proposed future priorities.
7. Efficiency and Economy in Ongoing Program
3.44      Reduction in DAR's infrastructure network, elimination of redun-
dant technical services, and relocation of staff on a research team basis
would significantly reduce DAR's real level of expenditures on station
overheads, general administrative costs, and staff travelling (Annex II,
Tables T-12 to T-15). At project commencement, administrative and facili-
ties overheads costs are expected to account for about 47% of DAR's recur-
rent budget. As of PY5, these costs are expected to have declined to 37%
of the budget. The proportion of the DAR budget allocated to research
programs is expected to increase from about 31% in 1984/85 (pre-project) to
46% in 1989/90 (PY5). This reallocation of resources, and general reduc-
tion in administrative and overheads costs is expected to result from
several factors: (i) reductions in utilities costs as stations are closed;



- 28 -
(ii) control of vehicle running costs (for largely non-research activities)
as the fleet becomes centralized under the project; and (iii) reallocation
of some labor time from plant upkeep to research trials as the physical
plant is consolidated. Expenditures on staff salaries and benefits are
expected to account for about 50% of the DAR budget throughout the project
period. Over the five years of the project, the cost of sustaining ongoing
types of activities (administration, implementation of research programs,
implementation of technical services, and facilities overheads) would
decline by a total of about MK1.1 m (US$0.8 m) in constant 1984 prices.
Costs of ongoing activities would be 16.3% lower in Project Year 5 than in
Project Year 1, in constant 1984 prices. Over the project period, this
would entail a 27.6% reduction in the real cost of technical services,
26.8% reduction in real administrative costs, 15.22 real reduction in
facilities overheads, and 4.3% real reduction in the cost of implementing
ongoing research programs. These estimates are conservative and do not
include the effect of efficiencies from introducing improved planning and
task budgeting systems under the project.
D. Project Cost Estimates and Financing
3.45      The costs of the above components are summarized in Annex II,
Tables T-4 to T-8. The total cost of the proposed project including all
capital and recurrent expenditures, and physical and price contingencies,
is estimated at MK66.4 m (US$49.9 m equivalent), of which MK42.8 m
(US$32.2 m) or 65% is foreign exchange. As the project involves improve-
ments in DAR's ongoing program as well as introduction of new activities,
the project cost includes the total DAR program for the five-year period.
A project cost summary appears overleaf.
3.46      Project base costs have been estimated on the basis of July, 1984
prices, updated to reflect prices as of negotiations. Physical contingen-
cies have been included at 15% for civil works, 10t for vehicles and
equipment, 10% for utilities, to account for potential delays in station
closures, 5% on vehicle operation and maintenance and 10% on adaptive
research running costs. Local price contingencies for all items have been
included at 11% for 1985, 10% for 1986 and 1987, and 9% thereafter.
Foreign price contingencies have been included at 8% for 1985, 9% for 1986-
1988 and 7.5% thereafter. Though unit costs of institutional housing in
Malawi are within the norm for Eastern Africa, the cost burden of construc-
tion and maintenance on GOM has become untenable as Government fiscal
constraints have increased. Housing costs under the project would be
reduced by about 372 from those pertaining if the normal costs and entitle-
ment structure were used. This would be accomplished by: (i) redesigning
prototypes to reduce unit casts (financed under the Project Preparation
Facility, Annex II, Table T-16); (ii) eliminating higher cost house types;
(iii) rehabilitating rather than constructing wherever possible, and
(iv) using the Government housing pool or renting rather than constructing
consultants' houses. Project cost estimates assume such cost reductions.
3.47      Efforts have been made under this project to minimize incremental
recurrent cost. This Is an attempt to tailor the project to Government's
fiscal constraints (para. 1.03), which are expected to be protracted.



- 29 -
Table 3.2: Project Cost Summary
TFU        COIITT    _1
(gmo"  '0000                CM  'mi                      S TOtal
Z For"m    kwg
Lal  Foreuln   Ttal    Lol  Fouim   Total  E[ii                Cots
asmm.  -    - Mm mumma  ml xmm.
l. WIL          EI  MJICIL                                   54.3   924.0   m.3        40.      4".7   735.6          4        2
5. DMl IIIIMTICTE OISIAIMTIU 1M  IIREIT                   6.032.2 972A 15,734.6  4951.5 7P2951 11.U.6                62       31
C. 1AM N nIWMI    An SYTS       iwRgWfl  /a
1. Fhh     S  1DMETTI                                    164.4  I.125.3 1.2F1.7    125.1   34.1   971.2           p         3
2.' _O I t          An KmEU                                2.0    33.4    35.1        1.5    253.1    26.6         4        0
3. ULE1  NO MTA  EIUIE    'b                              920.  2.00.3  2461.3       0.2  14M5.9  1625.0          9         4
4. PULKATIUS IIELIOET                                     32.0    36.8    48.        24.1    27.7    51.7         53        0
lh-lotIa  N    UWAEET AN  TST  PIPJIS_   A                  292.4  3r2H4.7 3tW.JI    219.3  2,454.7 2PP4.5           92        7
3. 3  STIfF ItEW DJ                                         332.5  p.3250   9.7.4    250.0 7,011.2  7261.2            7       19
E.  ESMOI CLllMmnol Np UCalT IEAOII
1. INTDIISTZII..   E    CES U. CAN                           -   134.9   134.9          -   101.5   101.5.       10         0
2. CEUC  13ENIM                                           117.2   709.4   34.4    103.1   53.4          .5   U     4        2
WhiTt   al EE      CILAIIEIIT ID AMCTC REAHCN               137.2   344.3   931.5    103.1    34.3   733.0           36        2
F.   A1410 - EXW6111 LWlEIE. /c
I * MTVIVE 1ES1ICN KIELEPIU                              517.6 2.3X.1 2,662.7    404.2 1W741.2 2,152.4            a1        4
2. FA0R     WBWSI inuRs                                   22.4    67.4    19.        168.   50.7    67.5          75        0
Wilola  1E551 - ETENIION L115E  /c                          560.0 2,392.5 2,952.5    421.0 1.793.9 2M219.9           a        A
B. 16 ONUB PROO0AN
1.   IENTATIU CF W      JEA5 P&IWM                     5,326.4 1144.5 6U472.9  4,004.3   342.0  4e66.             13       13
2. IIIT4TDI  IIF TW JICIL SEIIJCES                    2p00.35   83.1  2444.7  1510.2    30.2  2t140.4           29        6
3. MlIIIISTlITIU                                        1Y208.3  I.pIZ.2 34131-9    M.3  1,446.0 2,154.3          Al        6
4. FACILITIES WIETI 3 IAnNINTIWE                       UU122.7 21Tt.2  3wV9.1  1t220.2 I.651.3 2171.5             53        I
-Totd NI t M 3609    _MI                                 I0.166.6 6,104.0 16271.6  7.644.1 4549.5 129233.6           3       32
Total  ELINE COMS                                          17.575.2 32.556.Y 501302.1  13,24.4 24,473.9 37s693.3       65      100
PhsIca Coamin                                           133.7  2,703.8 3,737.5       7.2 2,033.0 2310.1            72        7
Price C     nogtcia                                      4.l2.5  7562.6 12495.1  37.7 5161.1  9394.3                U1       25
Toal MULECT CTS                                            23 S41.4 42,823.3 66364.7  17.700.3 32.193. 4-933.3        65      i32
/a Stff rlwcation has baa inclodd .ir il lInratiucture Conolidatn ned frv eomt.
lb Costs of librars civil works re covered der DO Inrastntmctwn Eoldati  and IwroA,am,t.
/c Praarsium o locaIIY specific extanm  atrials is not costad saaratalv an vch costs am sinia  ,dW are cved by. go  M  currant aratisn  dim               tum.
wamorv 14. m5  17:37



- 30 -
In light of this budgetary squeeze and the primary importance of achieving
a durable long-term agreement to stop the real erosion of DAR's recurrent
budget, the financing of this operation has been structured so that donors
would finance all investment costs, and incremental operating costs which
would be incurred early in the project. GOM would progressively increase
its finance of the operating costs of new activities through reallocations
from DAR's discontinued cost-ineffective activities.
3.48      This project provides a vehicle for agreement with GOM on the
level of financing required for DAR's recurrent budget as a whole.
Though earmarking funds for particular subsectors may not be generally
preferred, it is justified where such a prescription is based on a thorough
analysis of requirements for a program-wide effort in the subsector, so
that distortions would not occur. The approach is warranted in this
instance, considering (i) DAR's past real decline in recurrent resources
(para 2.29) and (ii) Government's tendency to finance its share of
externally-supported projects by switching resources from the Departiuent's
regular activities. Agreement was reached during negotiations that at a
minimum, the Government would sustain the 1984!85 value of its annual
contribution to DAR's operating expenditures in real terms (para.
6.05(ii)). This would be sufficient to finance total DAR recurrent costs,
including the full operating costs of new activities, by Project Year 5. A
best case scenario of timeliness in introducing efficiencies would permit
GOM to finance such operating costs at the following percentages per
project year: 0, 0, 45%, 91Z, 100%. To protect against underfinancing due
to delays in instituting efficiencies (primarily due to civil works
delays), the financing plan assumes GOM financing of the following percent-
ages of new activities' total operating costs over the project period: 0,
0, 27%, 71%, 100%. The annual plan and budget review instituted under the
project would identify the maximum allocation to new activities within the
above prescribed DAR budget, which could be financed by GOM in the coming
year. Though credit savings could result, this is preferred to the risk of
underfinancing. According to this conservative scenario, as of Project
Year 3, GOM would wholly finance recurrent costs of the Agricultural
Research Council (except for the first Triennial Review, which would be
financed by IDA and potentially USAID), the planning and budgeting system,
annual planning/review process, library and data processing operations, the
publications program and scientific and office equipment maintenance and
repair. As of Project Year 4, GOM would also wholly finance recurrent
costs of adaptive research and research extension meetings including
vehicle O&M (preparation of locally-specific extension materials would be
financed by GOM from the outset). As of Project Year 5, the balance of
recurrent project costs - for contract research and incremental building
maintenance and repair - would be taken up by GOM (Annex II, Table T-9).
3.49      Under this financing plan, IDA would finance US$23.8 m (47.7%,
net of taxes). GOM is planning cofinancing with USAID, of the order of
$9.2 m (18.4%) for research; GOM would finance the balance, amounting-to
$16.9 m equivalent (33.9%) (Table 3.3 overleaf). USAID participated in the
negotiations for this project. It was ascertained at that time that
USAID's financing, in the form of a National Agricultural Research and
Extension Project, would be expected to be committed as of June, 1985.



- 31 -
Table 3.3: Financing Plan
NMI
. ~    ~      SIE .IU               Mam  F
MT_ n"TL  H  PoM
FiarScird Pln be Iromiwt Cawamitu
(KSS  01     0 
U941D          N             liOI Mleb
--1-.1 ______-                             Lwa (Excl.
Amult  I    Amo u         t   Z            hosZ I    I   For. sleh.    Tam)
gggm =mm  AuMRum =          .U    mmm MWuinin    ugUUingu
A. MOIULEL ESEM  OICOlI                                    25.1 2.5    927.7 92.6       48.9  4.9  1,001.   2.0       947.           54.0
3. DM INFIlSTURE COIULITXTIXU AG  IN       IW                 -   -   ,79M.6 99.3    103.6  0.7  IS90.3 I1.9 ?       9402.6       6,411.7
C. M  MANEIEINT AO  5911   IrMDV_T  /a
1. PR0ll       MlIcOTEMN                                   -   -  1.#1.4  92.7       92.5  7.3  1,260.9  2.5   1M104.4           156.
2. PLRO    I.UMIU AM  0EV                                  -   -      21.1 67.7      10.1  32.3    31.2  0.1         29.1          2.0
3. LISUMY AN 3** K E. /b                                   -   -  1,713.0 84.1    324.7 I5.  2037.1  4.1    1I949.3               0.4
4. IJLIrATIUS EUELE                                        -   -      21.7 34.6      44.4  0.2       .1  0.1        36.3         31.3
Sib-Toal MW Nfw           MD 5  1TE  I   NS  /a               -   -  2.t2.2 86.1    471.7 11.9  31397.9  d.l    M119.6              213.1
3. 3  STAFF IE8II                                       S.133.6 81.5  1.f.0 13.5         0.0  0.0  9,933.6  20.5    9,21.6          362.1
E. ESEMOI C.LUATJUN AN6 COINT   E MD4
1. INIEAnTZUIL KECH CmllMnIU                               -   -    125.6 100.0         -    -    125.6  0.3        125.6            -
2. CNMTUCT llESCNI                                         -   -    77M.3 92.3       64.   7.7    834.3  1.7        667.9        146.4
sub-Tatl fEEf II cLLhIAT        AO CEfRACT RESRI              -   -    396.0 93.3       64.0  6.7    90.0  1.9         813.6        146.4
F. RE9ACH - EllE1610M LINKWAS  /C
1. ANMVF  E bESAO   in aWNT                          19061.4 36.0  1,350.7 46.8    471.2  16.3  2963.2  5.6    275.2              0.1
2. ESEAWII EXTEIISIE UhI0DPS                               -   -      46.2 54.8      38.2 45.2      84.4  0.2        62.3         21.4
Sib-Total ESARC  - EXTENSIUN L21K A    e                bD1.4 35.8  1.39.9 47.1    509.4 17.2  2,967.7  5.J    2.138.0              6.7
6. 3M CEGNE PRII
1. IIULE01TIOt CF  1SEA    115 FRM                         -   -         -    -  6460.0 110.0  6,260.0 12.5    1.15.2          5,174.7
2. 11RWJATINI OF TEC)IUIAL SEM:C                           -   -         -    -  Z.72425 100.0  20724.5  5.5        130.3      1,943.7
3. ANIIISTPATIN                                            -   -         -    -  3011.4 100.0  3,011.4  6.0    11153.5         1,157.3
4. FACITIES wIMTIP AN MINTEUE                              -   -         -    -  3.690.1 100.0  3,690.1  7.4    2i155.1        13s5.0
Sub-Total BAR lOIN  P M                                            -        - U1560 100.0 15686.0 31.4    5374.1                  9,611.3
Totlu  Disbursgt                                          9220.1 16.5 23,794.5 47.7 16.83.7  33.3 49.M.3 100.0   32,193.0          17,700.3
/a Stafr relocgtinn km bon included under NM  Intrstreturo  Cnwlidation ad lwrovOrt..
b  Cots af librarv civil works are covered under D  Intructoe CogoidaUim  ad Imfrvr        t.
kc Preparation ot locallv swcitic extenin materials is not costed soparatelm n asdh costs arn minial ar  re r cownd h 3M  rd M  current operation    _it .
Jaare 14, 195 17:40



- 32 -
USAID would finance roughly two-thirds of DAR's training program and
scientific technical assistance (aside from that in coffee research)
including expertise in adaptive research and production economics,
horticulture, and agroforestry (Annex I, Table T-2). IDA would finance the
balance of training, including that in research management; technical
assistance for planning and budgeting, library development, ARC advice and
procurement; operating costs of activities initiated under the project
until picked up by GOM (para. 3.48), and civil works, equipment, vehicles,
furniture, and staff relocation.
E. Government Cash Flow
3.50      Annex II, Table T-1O shows the Government's project-related cash
flow over a period of 20 years. Receipts would consist of the proceeds of
the USAID grant and IDA credit while expenditure would include all
capitaland operating costs net of the operating and administrative cost
savings resulting from the project. As fiscal revenues from indirect taxes
and duties on construction materials, vehicles, and equipment would be
negligible, they have not been calculated. It is unlikely that the project
would generate other significant Government revenues as the income of the
main ultimate beneficiaries (i.e., smallholders) is far below the taxable
level. The cash flow to the Government would range from a deficit of MK3.2
m (US$2.4 m) in Project Year 1 to an inflow of about MK2.8 m (US$2.1 m) in
Project Year 4. From the sixth year onwards, the recurrent costs net of
capital replacements are expected to stabilize through the remainder of the
project period at around MK5.0 m (US$3.7 m) per annum in constant 89/90
prices. These net Government outlays would average in real terms no more
than the 84/85 annual budgetted amount for research. However, during
years 6 to 20, funds would also have to be provided to meet the capital
replacement costs of equipment and vehicles, which would average about
M0K0.5 m (US$0.4 m) per year. The producers and consumers would be the
primary beneficiaries of the project. However, because of a general
association of national economic welfare with the Government's fiscal
position, eventual fiscal benefits from the project could be expected to
accrue to Government.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      As the project would have no separate identity from the overall
DAR program, its organization and management would be that pertaining to
DAR as a whole. Creation of an ad hoc project-specific institution to
manage the project would not be required. The Agricultural Research
Council (ARC) which would be created, inter alia, to provide guidance on
DAR's research priorities and program, and to manage contract research,
would perform these services for the entire DAR program. The project would
also lay the groundwork to establish an MOA Professional and Technical
Training Office (para. 4.2i-L under the upcoming Agricultural Extension and
Planning Support Project (para. 3.01).



- 33 -
4.02      In preparation for the project, DAR has been phasing staff into
newly-created management posts. A well-qualified CARO supernumerary was
selected in 1983, given increasing responsibilities for overall DAR man-
agement, and full control of DAR in September 1984. A suitably qualified
Deputy CARO (Research Programs) has been appointed. A suitably qualified
Assistant Deputy CARO (Technical Services) is in post; it was agreed at
negotiations that a suitably qualified Deputy CARO (Technical Services)
would be in post no later than November 1, 1985. Suitably qualified sta-
tion administrators would be appointed and in post prior to Credit Effec-
tiveness (para. 6.03(ii)). Staff have been appointed in an acting capacity
to all National Research Coordinator posts, all twenty-two Commodity Team
Leader posts, and to head up three of DAR's proposed four technical ser-
vices. Agreement on a key staffing schedule (Annex I, Table T-1) was
confirmed at negotiations (para. 6.05(i)). DAR has also produced a staff
list for the proposed Commodity Research Teams and ARTs. As movement of
38 (60%) of DAR's professional staff is entailed, implementation of this
reorreorganization will be phased in as housing and laboratory facilities
are made available under the project. (See Chart C-2 for civil works
implementation schedule and scheduled movement of staff).
4.03       GOM agencies have had difficulty recruiting and retaining
qualified Financial Controllers due to the higher incentives in the private
sector and the poor supply of suitably qualified applicants. At negotia-
tions it was agreed that Government would ensure that a Malawian coun-
terpart would be assigned to the consultant Financial Controller. To
facilitate his retention, DAR would, in addition to providing training to
accounting technician level, provide the Malawian counterpart with such a
grade as the Government and Association consider satisfactory once he
assumes line responsibilities. Agreement to this effect has been reached
during negotiations (para. 6.05(ix)).
4.04      The proposed ARC would perform significantly different functions
from Malawi's National Research Council (NRC), which organizes external
financing for individual research projects in several sectors. Never-
theless, in the area of structuring external assistance, there could be
slight overlap if the ARC and NRC activities were not coordinated. Con-
sidering the importance of clarity about ARC's responsibilities and the
need to avoid duplication of effort (a) a Government proposal on the
structure, composition, and functions of the ARC, including its Secre-
tariat, and its links with the NRC would be formulated and reviewed by IDA
prior to negotiations (para. 6.01(i)), and (b) formation of the ARC would
be a condition of Board Presentation (para. 6.02). The establishment of
the ARC Secretariat and its full staffing at professional level would be
a condition of credit-effectiveness (para. 6.03(i)).
4.05      An IDA staff member would attend the first meeting of the Coun-
cil, as an observer, to explain the details of IDA's support for the proj-
ect. The Council would meet as often, probably quarterly, as would be
necessary to carry out iLs duties effect- vely (para. 3.05 - 3.06).
B. Physical Consolidation and Improvement
4.06      Civil Works.  The Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWS) through
its Building Department would be responsible for the overall management of
construction under the project. Construction and daily supervision would
be performed by private contractors and by clerks of works supplied by the



- 34 -
Architect. MOWS would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating bids
and awarding contracts, based on technical evaluations carried out by the
proposed DAR procurement unit (para. 4.33). Detailed designs, working
drawings and tender documents for civil works under the project are being
prepared by a firm selected on technical grounds by GOM. The first phase
of this design contract, relating to construction to be put out to tender
in Project Year 1, is being financed by a Project Preparation Facility
(Annex II, Table T-16). The second phase of the design contract, which
would come into effect upon credit-effectiveness, would pertain to the
remaining civil works. At negotiations, a plan for the disposition of
sites not to be retained by DAR would be discussed and agreed.
4.07      Staff Movement.  Relocation of all staff would be essentially
completed by the end of Project Year 4, except for the ARTs and those who
would be overseas for training (Chart C-2). DAR is preparing a detailed
staff relocation program to ensure that these staff shifts are coordinated,
movement of goods and equipment organized efficiently, and the research
program is not unduly disrupted; this will be reviewed at negotiations.
By mid-PY4, Chitedze would house five out of DAR's seven National Coordi-
nators, and be the headquarters for 12 out of 22 Commodity Research Teams
and all central technical services.
4.08      Laboratory, Office and Farm Equipment and Vehicles.  As part of
DAR's annual review and planning exercise, all equipment and vehicle
requirements for the upcoming fiscal year would be reviewed by DAR before
preparing tender documents (Annex III). This would allow DAR to phase
equipment procurement with civil works completion and relocation of the
Commodity Teams and ARTs. The scientific equipment (amounting to about
MK1.25 m or US$ 0.94 m equivalent - base costs) would be installed at DAR's
three full stations, primarily at Chitedze, and at the two substations.
C. Management and Systems Improvements
4.09      Research Program.  Planning and implementation of the appLLed
research program would proceed in five stages: (i) development of overall
priorities in a national master plan; (ii) articulation of commodity
priorities; (iii) annual program planning; (iv) implementation of trials;
and (v) suitable quality control and review of results. The research
program FY85/86 has already been reviewed with the Association in light of
the need for: (i) clearer definition of priorities for the various
commodities, in line with their national importance and the research that
has already been done; (ii) clarification of priorities for adaptive
research, to benefit smallholder farmers; and (iii) work to improve
efficiency of input utilization, including timing, type, and quality of
inputs, to improve cost-effectiveness. The program would also indicate the
kinds of collaboration and help that would be received from the interna-
tional and regional research programs, e.g., with ICRISAT on groundnuts,
sorghum and millet, Bunda on beans, and CIMMYT on maize. A revised
detailed FY85/86 research program will be brought to nego-iations for
review. Longer-term planning of the research programs would be a function
of the research master plan to be developed under the project.



35 -
4.10      Development of the master plan would take nearly three years.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the master plan would be com-
pleted and dispatched to IDA for review and comment by March 31, 1988 (para
6.05(vii)). The first phase would be for the ARC to set the major goals to
which Malawian agricultural research should contribute. These would estab-
lish a context to evaluate past research results and set more explicit
priorities for the applied research programs. In the context of such
goals, DAR would assess the results of past research to ascertain what
useful knowledge and technology already exists, and provide this informa-
tion to ARC as background for the Master Plan. This evaluation would focus
particularly on research since 1978, when annual reports ceased to be pro-
duced even by individual stations. The ARC Secretariat with DAR assistance
would then identify gaps in the research program and unresolved issues that
would need to be addressed, including crops that require particular focus.
4.11      It is expected that a considerable proportion of the commodity
programs would concentrate on crop improvement, including the testing of
varieties suitable for intercropping, pest and disease resistance and
varieties of specific maturities. Research to increase the efficiency of
inputs, e.g., fertilizer use, would be an important part of the research
program as would work on intensifying production in the more adverse
ecological areas.
4.12      The steps involved in the proposed annual program planning and
review exercise are indicated in Annex III. This exercise would take place
before September 1 each year. beginning in 1985. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that the ARC review of DAR's proposed program and budget would
occur by end-October each year, beginning in 1985 (para. 6.05(v)). By end-
November of each year beginning in 1985, the ARC would send a supporting
statement to the Treasury and to IDA with the DAR budget submission, in
which priorities for DAR expenditures would be highlighted and ranked. The
Treasury (Undersecretary for Revenue) would participate in the annual ARC
program and budget review. An informal understanding has been reached in
Government that a satisfactory rationalization of the DAR budget at this
stage, supported by clear priorities and task budgeting, would obviate the
need for cuts at item level during the January Treasury review of MOA's
budget submission. This would prevent distortions in DAR'S program from
emerging at that stage. Further, the annual ARC review with Treasury
participation, and in which IDA would participate as an observer, would
undertake to ensure that the real value of DAR recurrent budget is, at a
minimum, being sustained (para. 3.48).
4.13      Agreement was reached at negotiations that the first in-depth
Triennial Review would take place soon after preparation and endorsement of
the research Master Plan, and no later than March 31, 1988 (para. 6.05
(viii)). The ARC would develop the terms of reference for the reviews, and
appoint the members of the review team, receive and review the team's
report.
4.14      Library and Data Base Development.  Implementation of the library
component would proceed along four tracks: (i) institution of library
systems, including DAR-wide budgeting improvements; (ii) development of
local library management capacity; (iii) construction and relocation into
suitable physical facilities; and (iv) acquisition of books, journals and



- 36 -
related materials to upgrade the core collection. The consultant librarian
and local counterpart would develop a work program in Project Year I to
catalog and organize the collection, including binding or microfiche
purchase for back journals; institute a library budget; plan circulation
and reference procedures and software; and develop recommendations to
stimulate library use.
4.15      The Joint World Bank/IMF Library has agreed to assist the
Librarian Consultant in procurement of publications and their shipment to
Malawi, and in cataloging new acquisitions. Specialized assistance in
cataloging the current collection would be financed under the project, to
permit the Librarian Consultant to focus attention on establishing appro-
priate reference and management systems. It is e-pected that initial
stock-taking to ascertain gaps in the collection would be completed in the
first 9 months of Project Year 1. About 40X of new acquisitions financed
under the project would be ordered in Project Year 2 and the balance in
smaller annual installments. DAR Library Committee to be instituted und-r
the project would annually review the library's program, with particular
attention to establishment and management of appropriate planning,
budgeting and circulation systems, and would provide guidance on
acquisitions (See Chart C-2 for details of implementation).
4.16      Publication Program.  Inputs to DAR's Annual Report would be
reviewed by the National Research Coordinators within the Department's
proposed annual research evaluation and planning exercise (Annex III).
A research editor in the office of the Deputy CARO (Administration),
appointed under the project, would be responsible for final preparation of
the report between September and March each year.
4.17      An internal review process would be established under the project
to evaluate and provide feedback on submissions for the proposed DAR
Research Bulletin and international journals (para 3.23). This would
include review of commodity papers by the Commodity Team Leaders and by
individuals in the same professional discipline across commodities. The
DAR Research Editor would be available to assist in finalizing these
submissions in times of the year not devoted to production of the
Agricultural Handbook (para. 3.39) and Annual Report.
4.18      The Annual Report would be printed privately, to ensure timeli-
ness. The Government Printer would subcontract this printing without a fee
for service. DAR would contract with the MOA Extension Aids Branch to
print the proposed Research Bulletin and revised Agricultural Handbook.
The project would also fund researchers' fees for submission to
international journals.
D. Technical Assistance and Training
4.19      The Librarian, Planning and Budgeting Specialist/Financial
Controller, and long-term scientific specialists would fill line posts
while their counterparts are being trained overseas. Such technical
assistance would be phased to permit sufficient overlaps (from 0.5 to
1 year) before and after the local staff's training to permit briefing
and collaboration. The Programming and Budgeting Specialist/Financial
Controller is expected to be in post four months prior to the planned



- 37 -
credit effectiveness date, and would design both a new budgeting system and
a phased program to introduce the system. In the first 18 months of the
project, he would train staff to use the new system and help manage its
institution. He would be recruited initially for 2.5 years to fill the
line function of Financial Controller. As the project progresses his
duties would shift from performing a line function to advising a local
counterpart trained under the project (para. 4.03). During negotiations
agreement was reached that by April 30, 1987, a review would take place
between the Government and the Association to ascertain whether the
consultant's contract should be renewed for the latter 2.5 years of the
project and whether he would at that stage, i.e., after October 1987,
(i) continue to operate as the Financial Controller, (ii) begin to function
as an advisor, or (iii) shift to an advisory role during the term of the
second contract (para. 6.05(ix)).
4.20      To ensure that key advisors - particularly the ARC Advisor,
P&B Specialist/Financial Controller, and Librarian - would not form a
shadow management" structure, which could undermine the authority of the
CARO, they would be hired as individuals rather than from a firm. Terms of
reference for these posts have been sent to the Associetion for review and
comment. DAR is preparing short-lists of candidates. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that the posts of ARC Advisor, Librarian, and
Procurement Specialist, and Program and Budgeting Specialist/Financial
Controller would be filled by credit-effectiveness (para. 6.03(iii)). DAR
has made its initial selection of candidates for interview for the posts of
ARC Advisor, Programming and Budgeting Specialist and Librarian. Funds to
bring candidates to Malawi for interview and briefing have been provided
under a Project Preparation Facility* Consultant scientists, to be
financed by USAID would be provided under contract with a United States
university.
4.21      During negotiations agreement was reached that a Training Advisor
to be financed by USAID would be in post not later than end-July, 1985
(para 6.05(iv)). Initially this advisor would be financed out of USAID's
ongoing National Agricultural Research Project.  As of October, 1985, it is
expected that the financing would be picked up by the proposed USAID-
financed National Agricultural Research and Extension Project. This
advisor would initially assist DAR to implement the training plan for
Project Year 1, based on needs assessed and the training program developed
during appraisal. To a lesser extent, he would advise the Ministry on the
establishment of an MOA Professional and Technical Training Unit to be
instituted and staffed as a condition of effectiveness under the proposed
Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project. This office would
service both DAR and DOA. At effectiveness of the extension and planning
support project (estimated for November 1, 1985), his duties would broaden
to advising this new MDA Training Unit.
4.22      Planning of the short-term training program would continue on
from the annual staff evaluation process (para. 3.26). Commodity Team
Leaders and National Coordinators would meet at least annually with the
Deputy CARO (Technical Services/Administration) to identify the main areas
in which training would be needed, the number of candidates and how long
individuals could be freed for training. The office of Deputy CARO
(Administration) would be responsible for providing training requests to
the proposed Training Unit. The Deputy CARO (Research Programs) would be
consulted on the phasing of training to minimize disruption of research.
DAR is preparing an indicative training calendar for Year 1 of the project
which would be reviewed at negotiations.



- 38 -
E. Linkages with the Extension System
4.23      Establishment and Management of the Adaptive Research Teams.
Project Years 1-5 would be devoted to training 8 ARTs in the farming
systems approach and establishing them. ARTS would be established at
headquarters and in three ADDs (Lilongwe, Kasungu, and Blantyre) in or
before Project Year 1; in Mzuzu and Salima ADDs by Project Year 3; in Ngabu
in Project Year 4; and in Karonga ADD in Project Year 5. A schedule of ART
M.Sc. training has been agreed with Government to maximize both continuity
in team participation and the formal preparation of team members before
they are put into the field.
4.24      The ARTs would operate as part of the ADD staff, in terms of day-
to-day operations, and part of DAR in terms of technical back-up. The
budget for their operations would be assigned from DAR to the ADDs.
Administratively, each ART would be responsible to the ADD Program Manager
and would form a section within the ADD structure. The ART Team Leader
would join the existing ADD Management Team, which comprises all Section
Heads and plans and implements the ADD Work Program. This would give the
ARTs an opportunity for regular, substantive discussions with other ADD
staff. The DAR National Adaptive Research Coordinator would be responsible
for liaison between the different ARTs and would facilitate communication
and collaboration between the CRTs and ARTs.
4.25      Before the beginning of the growing season, the annual work plans
of the ARTs would be discussed and agreed upon at a meeting of the ADD
Management Team, at which the National Adaptive Research Coordinator would
be present. Meetings of the ADD Management Team at the end of the growing
season, also including the National Adaptive Research Coordinator, would
evaluate the work of each ART in relation to the work agreed upon earlier.
4.26      The Triennial Review (para. 3.18) would assess the progress of
Adaptive Research in the initial three ADDs in which they were first
established, and ascertain whether significant changes need to be made in
the ARTs' structure and operations (para. 6.05 (viii)). This evaluation
would build upon the annual research-extension evaluation process at
national and ADD levels (paras 3.40 - 3.43). The Triennial Review would
focus on: (i) the ARTs links with ADD and research staff and the way the
ARTs have functioned on the ADD Management Team and in the ADD workshops;
(ii) the ability with which the ARTs had been able to diagnose the problems
of farmers and feed back these findings to the research staff; (iii) the
nature and results of trial work on farmers' fields, and (v) the ARTs'
progress in moving toward formulation of productive new recommendations.
4.27      Locality-Specific Extension Recommendations would be prepared by
the ART Team Leader in each ADD, reviewed inter alia by the ADD Extension
Subject Matter Specialists and approved by the ADD Program Manager (Chart
C-2). The recommendati ns would then be formulated into suitable extension
messages by the ADD Subject Matter Specialists. When these extension
recommendations require changes in smallholder input packages under the
credit system, ADD SMSs would: (i) work with the ARTs to design the new
packages; (ii) arrange with ADMARC for their adjustment; and (iii) train
extension field staff in their best use. In those ADDs awaiting estab-
lishment of adaptive research teams, ADD staff would undertake to develop
interim locality-specific recommendations, based on existing technology and



- 39 -
available information regarding the ADDs' particular problems. To assist,
the ART National Coordinator would identify adaptive research recommenda-
tions potentially suitable to other ADDs' conditions, and circulate this
information to their Senior Agricultural Extension Officers for
incorporation in ADD extension material.
4.28      Workshops.  Agendas for the ADD meetings would be drawn up by the
ADD Management Teams, with inputs from the extension staff and ARTs.
Participation by the CRTs would be organized by the Deputy CARO (Research);
requests would be sent to him and copied to the CARO, ART Coordinator, and
Commodity Team Leader concerned. Such routine requests would be submitted
by end-August each year. Requests for ad hoc or emergency participation
would be submitted directly to the CRT.
4.29      Participation in the National Research-Extension Workshops would
be at a high level and small enough to allow for consensus on overall
strategies, priorities, and ameliorative measures. Participation would
be restricted to: the CARO, two Deputy CAROs, CAO, Chief Veterinary
Officer, ART Coordinator and Team Leaders, other National Research and
Services Coordinators, the ADD Program Managers (or a Senior representa-
tive), the ADD Principal Agricultural Officers, and a representative of the
ARC. Though this would not include the ADD Subject Matter Specialists,
their attendance would increase total participation from about 35 to much
as 90, an impracticably high number for the purposes outlined. The agenda
of this workshop would be agreed by the CARD and CAO no later than May of
each year and would address the issues previously noted (para. 3.43).
Recommendations from the meeting would be prepared by the office of the
CARO, cleared by the office of the CAO, and circulated to all participants
for wider distribution to all ADD extension staff, no later than
end-September each year.
F. Implementation Schedule
4.30      The project execution period would be May 1, 1985 to April 30,
1990 (Chart C-2). The major controlling factors in the project's overall
implementation schedule would be the timing of the cropping season
(November-May) and the civil works construction schedule. Timing of staff
relocation and equipment procurement would follow directly upon substantial
completion of civil works.
4.31      Evaluation and planning of the research program, preparation of
DAR's annual report, preparation of extension materials, and planning of
the DAR inservice training program would be timed during the dry season
(June-October).
G. Procurement
4.32      Procurement of project requirements would be in accordance with
World Bank Guidelines and is summarized overleaf.
4.33      Procurement would be managed by a suitably qualified expatriate
Procurement Specialist recruited from a general procurement agency and at
least one Malawian procurement officer, satisfactory to the Association and
in post by credit-effectiveness, whom he would train (paras. 6.03(iii
and iv)). This DAR procurement unit would be responsible for expediting
all procurement under the project, including preparation of bid evaluation
reports to be sent to the GON Tender Board for its review. Civil works



- 40 -
estimated to value $1.0 m or more would be procured under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Construction and renovation of the Chitedze
Research Station and Lilongwe ART; Lunyangwa, Mkondezi, Baka, Meru,
Research Station and Lilongwe ART; Lunyangwa, Mkondezi, Baka, Meru,
Nchenachena; and Chitala, Lifuwu, and Bembeke; amounting to about MK10 i
(US$8.2 m) (including contingencies), would be bulked into one contract and
procured by International CompetitiveBidding (ICB). Other civil works
construction and renovation would also be grouped into suitable contract
packages. These would be procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines, as they consist of small, scattered
works, which would not attract international bidders. The average size of
contract to be procured locally would be about US$0.4 m equivalent; more
than half would be valued at MKO.2 a (US$0.15 m) or less (including
contingencies).  For civil works contracts estimated to cost US$1 X and
above, documents would be submitted to the Association for review before
tender and award. There are numerous local contractors capable of
executing the required smaller works.
Table 3.1: Consolidation of DAR Infrastructure
Project Element                   Procurement Method          Total
ICB    LCB    Other   N.A.      Cost
(US$ m)
Civil Works                          8.2      2.7                      10.9
(8.2)   (2.7)                    (10.9)1/
Staff Relocation                                                 .1      .1
(.1)    (.1)
Equipment, Vehicles,                 3.35      .5      .05              3.9
Furniture, Books                  (3.35)   (.5)    (.05)             (3.9)
Training and                                         17.1              17.1
Technical Assistance                               (7.7)             (7.73
Operating Costs                                        .3     17.6    17.9
(.2)2/  (1.0)   (1.2)
11.55    3.2    17.45    17.7    49.9
TOTAL                            (11.55)  (3.2)   (7.95)   (1.1)  (23.8)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
2/ Recurrent costs of contract research.
4.34      Equipment, Vehicles, Materials, and Services.  Procurement of all
equipment, vehicles, and furniture would be bulked to the extent possible,
within compatible contract packages. Contracts for scientific equipment,
farm equipment and machinery, vehicles, and office equipment and furniture
estimated to value S150,000 or more would be procured by ICB. A preference
limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the rustoms duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers of such items
in the evaluation of bids. Such contracts estimated to value less than
$150,000 but more than $25,000 would be procured by LCB in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines not to exceed $500,000 in aggregate. Equipment and



- 41 -
furniture contracts estimated at $25,000 or less would be procured locally
using prudent shopping, including at least three price quotations, or
through the Central Government Controller of Stores of the Stores Depart-
ment, not to exceed $150,000 in aggregate. Contracts for vehicles and farm
machinery and equipment would require the supplier to maintain adequate
after-sales inventory of spare parts. Books and publications would be
procured through direct purchase from sole suppliers or competitive shop-
ping where several suppliers are available. For contracts for equipment,
vehicles, furniture, or materials exceeding $150,000 in estimated value,
documents would be submitted to the Association for review before bidding
and award. Technical assistance would be procured in accordance with World
Bank Guidelines. Similar criteria would apply in selecting consultants for
contract research, although these consultants would be local.
R. Disbursement
4.35      The schedule of expected disbursements over 5.5 years is given in
Annex II, Table T-11. The closing date would be April 30, 1991. The
proposed disbursement schedule is slightly more rapid than the country
disbursement profile related to Malawi Agricultural area development
projects, which shows actual disbursement at 98% at PY6 but lower rates
(14% at mid-PY2 and 36% at mid-PY3) earlier in the project period. A more
rapid disbursement rate for this project, peaking at PY3 (15% by mid PY2
and 46% by mid PY3) is due to the lumpy civil works investments character-
izing 48% of the costs of the credit, which would be largely completed by
end-PY3. The anticipated disbursement schedule assumes 1.5 year's delay in
construction of major civil works from the schedule which appeared realis-
tic during appraisal. There are advantages to be gained from adhering to
this pace, in terms of the onset of (i) economies from consolidating DAR's
infrastructure (para. 3.44) and GOM's consequent ability to finance new DAR
operations through reallocations within the budget by PY5 (para. 3.47); and
(ii) benefits from moving researchers into commodity teams. Differences in
the management of project procurement from that in IDA-financed area-
development projects - particularly the establishment of a procurement unit
of a suitably qualified expatriate specialist and Malawian counterpart -
should facilitate more rapid procurement and disbursement than has charac-
terized past investments. Use of ICB for the bulk of civil works, equip-
ment and vehicles procurement should enhance timeliness of implementation
over that characterizing LCB and force account implementation in past
Malawi projects.
4.36      Disbursement of funds from the credit would be as follows:
Proposed Disbursement
Amount    Percentage (net of
US$ m      taxes and duties)
(1)      Civil works                          9.4          100
(2)      Staff relocation (transfer
allowances)                       0.1           100
(3)      Vehicles, equipment, spare
parts and publications            3.4           100



- 42 -
Proposed Disbursement
Amount    Percentage (net of
US$ m      taxes and duties)
(4)(a)   Technical Assistance
and Training [other than           5.7          100
(b) below]
(b)   Contract research and small
items of local training            1.0          100
(5)   Operating Costs of new activities       1.2           100 (on a declin-
ing number of activities
(para 3.48 and Annex II,
Table T-9)).
(6)   Refunding of Project Preparation        0.6    Repayment to Association
Advance                                      of all charges on PPF
account as of effec-
civeness.
(7)   Special Account                         0.4    Amount deposited to ini-
tiate Special Account.
(8)   Unallocated                             2.0
Total                             23.8
Disbursement against (1), (3), and (4)(a) would be against full documenta-
tion. Disbursements against (2), (4)(b) and (5) would be against State-
ments of Expenditure (SOE), signed by the DAR Financial Controller and
certified by the CARO. Documents for expenditures covered by SOEs would be
retained by the Borrower and made available for IDA inspection during
normal project supervision. In order to expedite the flow of funds for
disbursement, a Special Account (Revolving Fund) would be established in US
dollars with the Reserve Bank of Malawi or at such other location satisfac-
tory to the Association. The initial deposit of the Account would be
approximately $0.4 m, equivalent to the first of four months of expendi-
tures averaged for all categories. A condition of Credit effectiveness
would be that the Special Account has been opened by the Government (para.
6.03 (v)).
I. Accounts and Audits
4.37      During negotiations, agreement was reached that DAR and ARC would
each maintain a separate account for their activities, separating all
development expenditures from recurrent budget expenditures. Both these
accounts would be managed by DAR's Financial Controller. With the tech-
nical assistance and counterpart training being provided under the project
to improve DAR's planning and budgeting procedures and financial control,
the Department is expected to have adequate capability to maintain project
accounts. DAR would have those accounts audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association. The annual audit of project accounts would
include a specific audit of SOEs. DAR would submit audited project finan-
cial statements, together with the auditors' comments, to the Association
within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 6.05(iii)).



- 43 -
J. Supervision and Reviews
4.38      Three types of reviews would be established under the project:
(i) an annual DAR and review exercise (paras. 3.16-3.17 and 4.12); (ii) the
ARC review of DAR's proposed plan and budget (paras. 3.17 and 4.12); and
(iii) triennial in-depth reviews of the research program (paras. 3.18 and
4.13).
4.39      During negotiations, agreement was reached that by September 30
of each year, beginning in 1985, DAR would make the report from its annual
planning and review exercise available to the Association (para. 6.05(v)).
While the Association would not participate formally in DAR's annual plan-
ning and review exercise, it would review the planning and budget documents
and give comments to the DAR directorate. Discussion of the results of the
annual review. including research program proposals, the annual training
program, and equipment requirements, would form a substantial part of
supervision missions. The Association would participate as an observer in,
and review documentation from the annual ARC program and budget review
(para. 4.12) and would participate in the in-depth triennial reviews. IDA
would also participate in the interim review of adaptive research develop-
ment. During negotiations agreement was reached that within six months of
the completion of the project, DAR would submit a project completion report
to the Association (para. 6.05(x)).
V. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Justification
5.01      While Malawi's investment in the extension system, through NRDP,
has been expanding rapidly since 1978, the incremental investment in
agricultural research has been comparatively small (para. 1.13). The
success of the extension service depends very heavily on the availability
of extension messages suitable for the economic and social conditions of
both the small commercial and the subsistence farmers of Malawi. Without
the right kind of research to provide these messages, the extension system
will not be able to increase or even maintain its credibility among the
farmers. The present and planned expansion of the extension service and
its efforts to reach more widely into the farming community will exhaust
the stock of research information already available in the fairly near
future. A more vigorous research program is vital to meet this need,
focused on the small farmers' key problems and capable of developing
locally relevant solutions.
5.02      Malawi presently spends about 0.67% of its agricultural GDP on
research (para. 1.13). This is inadequate considering agriculture's
importance in .:he national economy (para. 1.02). The strong dependence of
the country on agricultural production would warrant the increase of this
investment to at least 1% of its agricultural GDP. As a recent World Bank
Agricultural Research Sector Policy Paper (1981) indicates, for a country
dependent on agriculture and in which the agricultural research systems are
still poorly developed, an annual expenditure (capital plus recurrent) of
2% of agricultural GDP would be a desirable target. In Malawi's case, this
type of increase may require a 10-15 year period. However, such an



- 44 -
increase could be justified only by increasing the efficiency and
effectiveness of the research system. The reorganization and development
of the system under the proposed project is designed to justify that
increase in resources.
Benefits
5.03      As in most other Bank Group assisted agricultural research
projects, no attempt has been made to quantify the economic rate of return,
ex ante, due to:
(i)    inherent uncertainties regarding the timing and value of research
findings, and the timing and extent of adoption of research
findings by farmers;
(ii)   difficulties in dividing potential benefits between research and
complementary investments (e.g., planning, extension, training);
and
(iii) the problem of assessing the value of negative research results,
which add to the pool of knowledge and frequently benefit
subsequent research efforts.
5.04     Nevertheless, while it may not be possible reliably to forecast
the economic benefits from research, it is possible through a break-even
analysis to come to some judgment regarding the soundness of the proposed
level of additional research expenditures above what would otherwise be
expended without the project. For example, merely to break-even in
economic terms (i.e., for the level of additional research expenditures to
yield a minimally satisfactory economic rate of return of say 10%), net
smallholder agricultural GDP would have to grow by an additional 0.1% per
annum on average over the next twenty years. This compares with an average
annual real increase of 4.3% in smallholder production since 1980. As
project induced growth seems highly likely to exceed 0.1% per annum, the
level of additional research expenditures would appear to be quite modest
and well-justified.
5.05     Further, reinforcing this conclusion is the fact that ex post
evaluations have virtually always shown high returns from research.  In
Latin America during the late 1960s the economic rates of return for
research on maize, sugarcane, wheat and cotton are reported to have ranged
between 35% and 90%. I/ A study of the green revolution in India 2/ gave
a rate of return to research of 72%. Estimated economic rates of return
for developing countries average 42% for applied research and 60% for
scientific research related to agriculture. 3/
1/ Arndt, T.M., D.G. Dalrymple and V.W. Ruttan (eds.), Resource Allocation
and Productivity in National and International Agricultural Research,
University of Minnesota Press, 1977.
2/ Kahlon, A.S., Cost-Benefit Analysis of Agricultural Research
Projects,Punjab Agricultural University, 1977.
3/ Evenson, R.E., and Y. Kislev, Agricultural Research and Productivity,
New Haven and London, Yale University Press, 1975.



- 45 -
5.06      Moreover, it is possible to describe the potential benefits in
qualitative terms, by developing a series of key indicators of progress
toward institutional objectives that should yield relevant, cost-effective,
and adaptable research. In the context of this project, progress should be
assessed toward developing: (i) a more efficient research system with
closer links with extension and the farmer, and (ii) a research program
that will support the agricultural development goals of the country and the
priority needs of small farmers.
5.07      Benefits within three to five years would arise from critical
evaluation and adaptations of past research. Immediate evaluation of
research covering the past six to eight years shouild culminate within
18 months in updating of the Agricultural Handbook of Malawi (para. 3.39),
to get the latest recommendations out to extension staff and in routine
production of annual reports to provide findings to extension Subject
Matter Specialists. Further, this evaluation would assess the usefulness
of available research results for the farmers' present problems, and form a
basis for the re-orientation of extension messages toward more specific
agro-ecolopical regions and more clearly defined farming systems. The
adaptive research teams would provide additional qualitative information on
the resources of the different groups of farmers, and the constraints they
face in adopting existing extension messages, and would modify available
messages to better suit the range of conditions. Planning of the adaptive
research program is beginning prior to effectiveness, so that some trials
would take place in Project Year 1, yielding verified recommendations by
Project Year 4.
5.08      Overall, the project would focus research on on-farm problems and
link research and extension into an integrated system, through continuing
meetings of applied researchers, adaptive researchers and extension staff,
priority-setting at field level, and development of technological
adaptations suitable to local conditions.
5.09      Major gaps and potential priorities for future research should be
identified during the initial year of evaluation, and continuously by the
adaptive research diagnostic work. These should lay a basis for preparing
DAR's research Master Plan, which would set priorities in light of national
goals, known local problems and constraints and inputs that can be mobi-
lized from both DAR and non-DAR sources. This process should yield a far
better focused and cost-effective research program with greater benefits in
terms of foreign exchange earnings, smallholder incomes, and basic nutri-
tion. DAR's efficiency in using research resources would also be improved
by developing a program and budgeting system that would plan the use of
financial resources and monitoring of expenditures in terms of objectives
and tasks. Costs of DAR'F ongoing activities are also expected to decline
by about 16% in real terms over the project period, largely due to reduc-
tions in station overheads, general administrative costs, and vehicle
operating costs as facilities are closed. The manpower development program
would develop the essential human capital of the agricultural research
system and the improved physical facilities, promotion structure and
library facilities would tend to attract and retain trained scientists.
5.10      In qualitative terms, some of the prospective benefits that could
be expected from a well-managed and properly focussed research system in
Malawi would include:



- 46 -
(i)    recommendations that would optimize the use of purchased inputs
such as fertilizers and other agrochemicals;
(ii)   selection of improved varieties of important crops that would be
well adapted to the various agroecological regions of the country
and would have resistance to important pests and diseases and
good storage qualities;
(iii)  crop husbandry systems that would ease major constraints of the
small farmer such as labor shortages at peak periods;
(iv)   a range of options for the small-scale farmer (made available via
the extension service) that would enable him to maximize the
return on his labor and land resources, and increase his income;
(v)    improved farming systems for presently underutilized land; and
(vi)   conservation and improvement for utilization of the natural
resources of the country in the shape of soil, water and
forestry.
These would be longer term results: it would be five to ten years before
new varieties and related agronomic regimes of fertilizer, pesticide and
herbicide applications developed under the project would appear in the
field.
Risks
5.11      The focus and productivity of research would depend on:
[i) timely reorganization and relocation of commodity researchers into
multidisciplinary teams, (ii) consolidation of DAR's infrastructure to free
up resources for the incremental activities proposed, and (iii) the success
of DAR's proposed staff development program, including timely recruitment
of technical assistance and sufficient overlap with Malawian counterpart
staff; institution of a suitable technical career stream and timely degree
training. Significant risks affeeting any such long-term institutional
development effort would include under-funding preventing the Department
from adhering to a continuing research program, poor execution of research
programs, and the difficulties of developing suitable technology for the
subsistence farmers, particularly in the adverse ecological regions. The
technical difficulties are exacerbated by the fact that the external trans-
port system on which Malawi depends leads to high input costs and low
export prices. Major increases in production will require additional
agricultural inputs and while research can make their use more efficient,
it cannot obviate the need for them.
5.12      This project has addressed Lhe issue of adequacy of funding
directly by obtaining an agreement from Government that at a minimum, the
84/85 real value of DAR recurrent budget would be sustained. This would be
sufficient to continue to finance the systems and other operating improve-
ments introduced under the project. While this is a modest level of
finance and would not allow for significant incremental research expendi-
tures, it is realistic and represents a more durable agreement at this
stage, in light of GOM's fiscal constraints, than a request to increase the
DAR budget in real terms. At a later stage, after DAR has reorganized and
demonstrated its improved efficiency in managing its resources, GOM should
be more favorably disposed to real increases in DAR's recurrent budget.



- 47 -
Environmental Effects
5.13      Research programs would be designed to develop technclogies which
safeguard the delicate balance of agro-ecosystems, and at the same time
minimize health hazards. Sound integrated pest management practices will
be developed for major pests and diseases. Farming system research pro-
grams will investigate methods of soil management which will ensure soil
productivity and conservation, including the application of minimum tillage
to production systems. Agroforestry development would maximize use of
integrated farming systems and aim to increase soil and water conservation
as well as food, fuelwood, and fodder production. Further, the restoration
of the diversity of cropping in Malawi, which is expected to be a benefit
from this project, should build up the fertility of the soil due to more
even mineral use, and decrease erosion through better soil coverage and
varied root depth.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The following step was taken prior to negotiations:
A Government proposal on the structure, composition, and func-
tions of the ARC, including its Secretariat and its links to the
NRC was formulated by GOM and reviewed by the Association (para.
4.04).
6.02      The following would be a condition of Board Presentation:
The Agricultural Research Council would be formed (para. 4.04).
6.03      The following would be conditions of credit-effectiveness:
Ci) The Agricultural Research Council Secretariat would be estab-
lished and fully staffed at professional level (para. 4.04).
(ii)  Suitably qualified Station Administrative Officers for Chitedze,
Bvumbwe, and Lunyangwa would be in post (para. 4.02 and Annex I,
Table T-l).
(iii) Consultants to be in place throughout Project Year 1 would be in
post (para. 4.20);
(iv!  DAR procurement officer satisfactory to the Association would be
in post (para. 4.33).
(v) The Special Account for disbursement of the credit would have
been opened by the Government (para. 4.36).
6.04      Prior to disbursement against estate coffee contract research,
TRF would provide DAR with an outline of the support that TRF could provide
and, DAR would provide a staffing plan (para. 3.35).
6.05      The following other agreements were reached during negotiations:
(i)   The key staffing schedule for DAR would be confirmed and staff
would be in post accordingly (para 4.02), including a suitably
qualified Deputy CARO (Administration and Technical Services)
not later than Norember 1, 1985;



- 48 -
(ii) At a minimum the Government would sustain the 1984/85 value of
its annual contribution to DAR's operating expenditures in real
terms (para. 3.48);
(iii) DAR would maintain an account for the project, including that of
the ARC, separating all development expenditures from recurrent
budget expenditures, have these accounts audited by Independent
auditors acceptable to the Association, and submit audited finan-
cial statments, together with the auditors' comments, to the
Association within six months of the close of each fiscal year
(para. 4.37);
(iv)   A suitably-qualified internationally recruited training advisor
would be in post not later than end-July, 1985 (para. 4.21);
(v) By September 30 of each year, beginning in 1985, DAR would make
the report from its annual planning and review exercise available
to IDA (para. 4.39). The annual ARC review of DAR's proposed
program and budget would take place no later than end-October of
each year, beginning in 1985 (para. 4.12) and by end-November of
each year, beginning in 1985, the ARC would send a supporting
statement to the Treasury and to IDA with the DAR budget subais-
sion, in which priorities for DAR expenditures would be high-
lighted and ranked.
(vi)   By end-April, 1987, GOM would develop and formally approve the
necessary regulations to implement a scientific career stream for
DAR satisfactory to the Association (para 3.27);
(vii) The agricultural research master plan would be completed and sent
to IDA for rev.'ew and comment not later than March 31, 1988
(para. 4.10)
(viii) In-depth reviews of the DAR research program, chaired by the ARC,
would be held once very three years, beginning no later than
March 30, 1988 (para. 4.13); review of the progress of Adaptive
Research Development would be combined within this Triennial
Review (para. 4.26);
(ix)   The Government will ensure that a Malawian counterpart will be
assigned to the Consultant Financial Controller, that such
counterpart shall have training to accounting technician level
and be given such a grade as Governient and the Assoc&ation
consider satisfactory. By April 30, 1987, a review shall take
place between the Government and the Association to ascertain
whether the contract of the Consultant Financial Controller
should be renewed and if so, whether he would operat-, in a line
function or advisory capacity, or shift to an advisory role
during the term of the second contract (paras. 4.03 and 4.19).
(x)    Within six months of the completion of the project, DAR would
submit a project completion report to the Association
(para. 4.39).
6.06      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of US$23.8 m to the Government of Malawi.



- 49 -
Chart C-1
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Key Indicators of Implementation
Civil Works Construction
Contract including Chitedze works:
Documents sent to IDA:           not later than end-October, 1985.
Bid opening:                     not later than end-January, 1986.
Evaluation:                      completed not later than aid-
April, 1986.
Award:                           not later than mid-July, 1986.
Construction of Chitedze vorks: completed not later than
mid-July, 1988.
Relocation of Applied Research Staff
Essentially relocated by end-PY4.
Establishment of ARTs
Headquarters LADD, XADD, BLADD: mid-PYl
MZADD, SLADD:       mid-PY3
NADD:               mid-PY4
KRADD:              mid-PY5
Master Plan
Completed end-PY2
Technical Assistance
ARC Advisor, P&B Specialist/Financial Controller, Procurement
Specialist, Librarian: by effectiveness
Training Advisor: end-July, 1985
Staff Evaluation Process:
Revised by end-PYI



- 50 -                     Chart C-1
Page 2 of 2
Scientific Career Stream
Introduced by end-PYl
Training of Malavian Counterparts
Financial Controller: September 1985 - June 1987
Librarian:              September 1986 - June 1987
Publications
Agricultural Handbook of Malawi: end-PY2
Annual Report:                     end-PYl
Workshops and Reviews
Annual Planning and Review:
DAR: not later than end-September per annum, beginning PY1.
ARC: not later than end-October per annum, beginning PYI.
Triennial Review:                        not later than end-PY3.
National Research-Extensioa Workshops: annually, beginning PYI1
ADD Research-Extension Workshops:        minimum '5 per annum per ADD,
during growing season.
Contract Research
First contract(s) let to University:    not later than end-PY1.
Coffee research facility:                completed and staffed not later
than end-PY2.
Library
Utilization Systems established:         end-PYI.
Cataloging of backlog completed:         end-PY2.



rt                                  I                                                                     Z I        ;   I  j  A
a.    I    i                                                                       .l  i          cf  f 1m    
I                                                           i                                 i            i{} 4ta
I~~~~~~~~~~~~I
It                                                     a
0.0   -1  IS                                                 I    U 
~~~..                      ... .     . ... ..    ... ...1   .. .    1. ...  ..  . ...   ..    ........ i
*             *       a1 =                              a S .                       D
.... ma. j . 'V' ., *r-                              ,           _. ._.  *1t' ' p 'V' ... .... .                .
*@.          -.      .             ..............                   ...  .... ..                    ...  . .....
^C"C^Cs~~ .n   .a                                  4- 
. ;'S;W;...' ..... .......... I.................... .........
; t: t: t~. .                                                                                      -r a. S
.-.                                      .     -. .  .. ....  .
~~~~~.r .t . .t . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ......                       .        .        ... ....... ......  I
.... L i ............. ... . ... ...... I          . . . .... . . .                                                      I '1-



F.                                                                                '1~~~~~~~~~    ....       
~~~~~  Iv.                                                                    I)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ....       
zz                    Z-     :Z                   I  
U ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 2  I     I 
.I.                              ~~~~~... ......
*1                  I~~~~~~~Z.      .         Z-                       Z
. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..         Z                                                                       .  --I
.                     .    .    ..   . .   ..  
.   ..   ..   ... .. . .                                                                 I.-. -.=.
Q            ....... . .I                                                                                               H
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zz  I-z                                             -
1                                      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,



- *              _______E _______ *..........   ......   -.   .
A-4
('S-,~~~~~~~~~.; . . .,. ,.   . .   ;. .          
Ii W                             l  . . .. .    .
I  E   ~  ~    ~ ~~ ....                 ....... i
. ......-  .    ..
tl~~~~~~~~~~I 
TI~~~~~~~~   I



%4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
..  .. ...u   u   .... ..  ... ...    ...            .     .  . . . .    . ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...    ... ..       ---    ---
.. .. .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . .    -- - - -
Vl.olffn*                                              .IMI                                                    .                        .l*I.*I* IvvI. I
11-  .d      0.114w     .. .1 I4IIW                                                                                                                  -*                                                                                       .*                                          *   *,-               I...I..
.~...w..il .rr.*%.I.f. aS  n.Ff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MU E.p.. -  MrW.
*  .  .  .  .               *           .            .                        .            .           .                        .            .            .                         fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4A . 4=    b
.. .. .. . .     .. . .  . .     .   ..                           .. . - -  -   -  - .    ........  -  ------                                                                                                                .    ..     .. .........
ft..d   d..                                                                                                ..                                                ..                                                 ..                                                .f                       .  WA-.S.
fpw'lI..r ...pn.Ill,p' stI  p.qr..l,I..'  *  *  .  *  .                  .            .           .                         .           .            .                        .            .           .                 *   AI.uI.~~~~~~~......  ..............
*                                                                                                                    *~~~~~~~~~~~~~......  -                                                         ........... L           -.pfl
F I .   ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..      ..           . .. .     .. .  ..   .  .  ..            -         .-- - -      -- - - -  --   .  . .  .  .  .    ... . .     .                           ..........
*    l~~.FP*p  P...... .......  . .                                  ...     ...             .                                                                                                                           .& ....... .....                        .        ..........
vi    lpt~ a.   _-I                                                                                                                          -      -pI   **P                                                                                                                                  -----
*fIa,lW    .p                                              p*                                                                                             



t~~~~~ l                   - {              .i l        lE                 -               ts                       i i 
TAi
*            4~~~.  . _ _.      _ _._ _._._  ._ _._._ _.
*i**-l-8 *9..... ...  ........... .......
*:                                                    !* 
...  .. 1.I;.                      '.          ..... . ........
.  . .    . . .                                         .. .. . .I         
.     1 _                                   _,                                                                                              a
S.       --I.                                                                    . . . . .                                                                     i
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  .                                                             .---  --  .-- - - - -  .-'  .-- -  .-- - - -  -u
........................-i                                               --j                                                        , 
... .... ..   ;.. ...... .......Ja 
.. . . .. . . .. . ...                                                .    ......             ,             
....                            . I  ;                         I                     l..              ...
.. . . . . . . . . . ...    ..... . . . . . . . . .
.|. I, ; i.l @ ,~~~~~~~~~~~* 
.. ..    .         ,       t .-                                          .     . . .            '-    -- .- . .             --...        ...     
...   ... . . . . 1                       . . l-
,                                                     i                                                            ,5]  3                  ,S Ij



It .' * *t ;A I sa *!j! 
. .  ..  ..  .  ... ..    .    . . .                              r .                                                          
iJj ti?   I 
.   ..   ..   ..    .   ..                       .    .  .B .  .  .  .  .  .                
...................                -       -        -. .
I                ;t                                             I   s
;~~~ -  *                 I  *       * *****    *---   ***-         
.-                    . 
.....- -                                        .....                        .
... I. . . .          a           .
.~~,  ',                                                                         - ..  
.......... io ..                                  .........                    t..  . . .
.   .| .   .   .  .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .........  .   .   S  S..
.   .. .. ..   ..  ..  .  ..  ...  ..  ..  .. ..   . ..  .  .* .  .   < .  .   .;
I.                         -                S,W _   
. .. .. .. . .. . .  l.b . . .  . . . .,                          
...  ................ ................                                            .      
I               ...               .... ..
St..        ............. .  . .  .        .  .   .  . . .. . . .     . . .               .                |
-...,                                             .  .  . ....s



- 57 -                                    Chart C-3
-      ~      uGA1 Ad7n.
Smer,Q       a       SexvL 
D.S.~~ ~ .buci    J  s.          _
-.S. A       atn 
S.& Tahmcal         IIS.
Ltveutodc
8 K A    AWob
Pl&dmDW.ofAg.                    Dp.   o i.          Vee, rr Det .
DLVNI              Pa_c                 (CA-)              (CYO) Hmt & Ve.
(C.P.O.)           (CAD)                                 iPrit s          
-}dAcLpmI F=m      JWwmch Station    lFatension    o        specilsts
%*~~U*   GDOOK=tm  Jmd RobwAky              hrlutY
sttti          cornt               MaeL                    lvetc
;Phd M              -Smi     y SWY-Fo & Nkrtian
Nedit~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~t
r         Urdts
Field ServiP            t       Ay" eem I I
ProjectOff         Ser
EztwMc    __Al I__t___________
dktrnY             -cedit              -Zp=
HCeL            -%wh                 Ddb
-Esaluntim-wte Supply
n'~Seto P _     lCalt
EAssst5t



Chart C-4
- 58 -
(Of. o Abe In Pea at Jwry 1, 1984)
RAqM, aaiw  w wu
Iadef  ri         l          OL       
Amt. OdeE rid.  _srh  OfiEr Y6
Prmpal Am.  74=:h Offlaxr  PJ
aomLo fier (_AOc)           ED
Stuff  Ot~  Uum~uHi~im   Kininzhia  Lifisia  Iam)mym   ImiIich Ldai.a sm  ?ffbz               cm
r         R                      P  ap
Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4ros a  >_   a                                                   ar90
OEfw
In3P7                     P7       P6        PO        P8         70        SrA    A D         m       70   S3D
Po             48         17       12         2         2          0          0         0       0       3      0
ID             31         28        9         3         3          5          0         2       2       2      4
Ti             72         50       24        10         6         10          10       12      10      17      14
S3b3
Stata         3          1                  1          1         2          1                         3      5



- 59 -
Chart C-5
MIaNSW CW Azza3ii
IaewchfW   mmZ*  ~
Fmm
ED     _~~CU
a SilmadIMIley   Fadga    * Oumemi         VaIMIC  * nrK1W1L                PEumcdm, 
* it.M       * frpicid    * Cbt              amdirM  IDm1zM                 03mucm
* Scx*a.~fl.1-   Fid~  * bu   * bu~?mm &   SA1 A %WKe          *   d Seia.
let      e I'm  *ku   (kIur (un    Famer   ~     imff     6m  a     UfaLmd  et
* Cffeeinc"                                                    edcd
Cm.c                                   Ifr (kup Scor
same                      CM Scairme            m F~ZATD  ivwer &MMnI
SMCTIa 9      ANACRS
M.dw            lzU. iveub
1ar1 1co
x~~~~~~~~~mr QN _
~~|AIN|                                             SUSBA STAIO   MAAG SRINTR
HQ  IqAW   KAM  LAW   SIA    EAAM   MAWD  MMI
EMU ADAPrrJE IESEAMSITES
. _ F~~~~~~~an                                _ ~            Udc*[ 
*  1h U1                  tk 
s Sdae  ' _ *  *  Q _       * IbtL~~~.dma,  m * 4K            * 
w 10Sc~~~~~~~~~~~zBleroF  ls    



60 -                                 Chart C-6
lW3E  IOl~
rhnuur _l
Fzaii m  of Cm=&
hti. EMts"               .     www h     wof
Stalstic 6Lta                  f
k                   ~~~~~~~PAO/AO_
p   ~bf SWIt Swdr ScbmnU   at Stod  Uv
StaS
j~~~nAe Fffnt                rin 0g's  11m          -dto
a Tro     Fu        Plm        61 a_m
l ~~~~~~~~~~um    Hsbwift   T_kM l
~~~~~~~~~~~~azo   IW1 | la G11_&
X  X                 X   .   1 1@        11 |YM
i   X                   r    1't 11 1mmlk
>_ hf l            lse   |              I~~~FA
1
1 1 1t
SU",,, 



Chwt C-7
Pncpmi Msulbtlaof Rrcd  ad Savifs  rAmt b YAin Satim'
Sctitln                        Od.tae                          him                          lWanyi
Matlinal P0marCh       C J COp                           Frudts, Vqptabln & T1mrop
Coodinators Oidti-     (ruin lmu.s, oleas, G Fibers
ca.EIdity)             livitodt aId FctUn                flUsei% A id %Ab6 1    y
Adotive 11erch
Tacbdma Serices
Cwdlty Reserch         maize                               Ieate Fndrt                     1pndul Frtd
Tem lauder             Whuat/airi.                       Ts Mats                           O*Gidezi)
Gzumi*uits              ~~~VqptabJus/Spim                  Crav.-    1rcao
(r.2.ae                          Otbr Odn 1qpn                     GDffee (uulldw)
Cotton                           SU ad Water Haamm
Litatodk Nutritio, mnguint         ad Cmuerv=a'i  (ad Soil
ad  1eeding                      Swviom and &     t)
PFtur  ad Fodder Crop            Irati=/UxI     (hn) 
ApfortrY                         Sromftilet (einthls) 1/
Farm Maditney
Crp Storag
R.ee      Rea  (kwsCllg)1
Rdo  CUu) I/
Servi   Tm            SCl  5ervScas IC d AM   2/ 1  S        ell vim  2/
leader                  lit Ptatectim (includitg
AWL    4ad Q sia
Seed Servtom
Pdlation Of Phtlcj
..llury ad Iorintlm  Sevioe
1/ the rice tem muld rrfin at Lfuz, a mslataio  of Cdthke, ad th    r/l            d irdg atim/dra     team
iaid  amtinue to be locaed at fninthala, a autlmn of BD*e, to amold tk e aeime of d&licati  their
facdllti  elseiere. Bunda Collge ild  nwn the 2ocati  for wrk an Rimsolus burms
2/ Cdsned dth Soil aid Water M1_.iat aid C.ervatin graW.



- 62 -
Annex I
Table T-1
Page I of 2
NMALWI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PRJEXCT
Key Staffing Schedule
Officers                                     Date in Post
Chlef Agricultural Research OfZicer                         September, 1984.
Deputy Chief Agricultural Research Officer (Research)       January, 1984
Deputy Chief Agricultural Research Officer                  Condition of Credit Effec-
(Technical/Administration)                                tiveness (expected by end-
April, 1985).
Station Administrative Officers                             Condition of Credit Effec-
tiveneso (expected by end-
April, 1985).
Procurement Officer                                         Condition of Credit Effec-
tiveness (expected by end-
April, 1985).
National Research Coordinators
(a) In post pro tem                                       August, 1984
(b) Appointments confirmed                                June, 1985 (target date).
Commodity and Service Term Leaders 1/
(a) In post Mo  tem                                       August, 1984
(b) Appointments confirmed                                October, 1985 (target date)
Head Librarian Supernumerary
(a) Appointed                                             not later than end-June,
1986.
(b) Confirmed as Full Head Librarian                      May 1, 1988 (target date)
1/ Except for Head Librarian Supernumerary.



- 63 -
Annex I
Table T-1
Page 2 of 2
ARC Secretariat
Economist at MDA Headquarters                        March, 1985 (target date)
Economic Analzysis Unit
(a) Economist                                            in post
(b) Economist                                            September, 1985 (target
date)



-64-                                   I
Table T-2
Page 1 of 5
Indicative Training Schedule
1. SUKARY
A. Degree Training
Ph.D.                                Fri   YY2   RY3    WI4   Ff    Total
(Person-years) 1/
Malze Agronomy                      1      1      1                     3
Tropical Fruit                             1      1      1              3
Tapeate Fruit                                     1      1      1       3
Aniiml Production                                 1      1      1       3
To be determined                                                6       6
Sub-total Ph.Ds.                    1      2     4      3       8      18
HS.
Accounting/Financial Control               1      1                     2
Library Science                     1      1                            2
Tree Nuts                           1                                   2 2
Enthoology                          1      1      1      1              4
Reproductive Physiology             1      1                            2
Horticulture                               1      1                     2
Silviculture: Agroforestry          1      1                            2
Agricultural Engineering                   1      1                     2
Vegetable Crops                            1      1                     2
Agronomy: Agroforestry                     1      1                     2
Soils: Agroforestry                               1                    2
Agroomy: S                                        1      1              2
Agronomy.  CSP                                                          2 1  2
Breeding (Maize)                                         1      1       2
Biometrics                                               1      1       2
Soils Science                                            I      r      2
Plmt Patbology                                           1      1      2
Nematology                                               1      1       2
Adaptive Research                   4      8     10      6      4      32
To be determined                  -                            6       6
Sub-total MScs.                    9      18    19    15    15        76
Total                              10    20    23    18    23          94
1/  Three person-years - 1 Ph.D.; 2 person-ears - 1 M.Sc.



- 65 -
Annex I
Table T-2
Page 2 of 5
B. Shoat-Tenm Training
PY1    PY2    PY3   PY4      PYS     Total
(Person-Weeks)
In-Country Training
Conmmdity research                   414    450    450    400     400    2,114
Adaptive research orientation
and technical courses              168    100    60    60        60      448
Research management                   74    74    50       30      30      258
Government procedures                 20     20    40      20      20      120
Management practice                   16     16    30      50      50       162
Subtotal                       692    660    630    560     560    3,102
Training Abroad
Courses and Study Visits
Commodity research
- region                           228    240    160   160       80      868
- elsewhere                        128    140    100    80       80      528
Adaptive research                    8     24    40      40      40       152
Other                               48     48     36    24       24      180
Subtotal                       412    452    336   304      224    1,728
Regional conference/workshop 1/        8      8      8      8       8       40
Regional seminars 1/                  14    14    14    14         14       70
Subtotal                        22     22    .22    22       22      110
TOTAL                        1,126  1,134    988   886      806    4,940
1/ Unit of 4 person/days all costs
November, 1984



66 -                                                 Annex I
Table T-2
U.   IDR PUG FL      N5lNLr WR I                                                                                                              Page  3  of  5
WIck Gm, 4                              Scaff level             _rudg                                                     thic    TecaCm c       1           Total
MiLGiwjg  IIJ                 N    K)   'I TA aitr             lcdv Ly       Ihndm           LaCtM      e      Ikdt      C mc  (tin. mumO)  Ocs             Cme
OK)                    O tK)         MK)
Pra:c1n  pamctdia5e                     25                        e         3 Imb         snub               m.k 2dD                15,0W         5w       15,500
LIifc 6 axol
an ped1c cu                                3D               c            2m      _          Nl m           muk           50       3,000         00       3D3M
ftl4kbm of cmprlcal                                                                       A_ ,dh
denla & da cDLIecdj                                         amm           2 wada        Scae.               m ic          5D       40W         46w        4.4D
mamin da      . dar
alJia      & maya20                               D          zxin         4 ta          ('GAby/lM            awk         SD        4,0W         240       4,240
Bonk  aercr kUs                    15              In                       3 weeIs Uruk                      miwk        20D        9.00         500      9.5W
Iinsai _waic                12    25                                        2                  _ a
foLi.'w       IaddOarter          *u 'ii      21        iao0          5w       95WD
rcAnm   c fer
crtupoc  & samadr                                                                                                                 35.tO                 35,0W
Qweamc prorn6xa                    10                                       2 weeks                           mwk.         50        1.0W         5w   0 .30
Mbcve RP_es h
Adacle resrdh                                                                             rFA/Amer.-
(cedEioIw                         2                         M.Sc.         2 yeam        ha/Wt               a m      27,0M        27,O0D                54,0W
Adativ r'mardh
(sadDflar)                        2                         iLSr.         2 yUa         USA                ' yer    27,0W         27.00                 54,0WD
0Ieaiedc1g                  10                                uIdhp         3 day         1mrjerM
4r)                        ssadzm        1 imek       COThl3:             .wwk          5n        2,0m        4W        2,46W
ICO,                  smdmr         3 days        rNhy/I              nd           12        3,a6       I,03W      4.600
UI              con8i         2 das         Scacias             ad            12       3.600      1.00      4,6W
40      awlI'm   I day              Scu5to
- -- enc                   2                                saady visit  .I a             A nu                        1.60        312D        1.0W      3.30
%mTWy dedn./cvmlusi          1    14                                        1           tMw cy              to a         a0        12,0W         750     12.750
Agrictdanral Ecanaies
Grm r ure                    1                                accsduc    3.               lhmeidcy            m a         dC0        2,40          50D     2,450
diplIn In
Elirs af sctcic              I                                sacisdc.   9 e  (of 1831  bUON                  m.        1.20D       10,8D         350     11,150
E        kde mIlysis                     2           _         ame          3 n         Irdvercy             m*           8         4,            iW       4,930



Annex i
- 67 -Table T-2
Page 4, of.5
IbD* Qu  &                              Scaff laiut                                                                       3h       Tnral eC    lbu1          FocaL
IU.mIz_ Idila                        PO   TO   TA    E          ACCYiCy      nAaci            Kac.ma            tkdc      C      (mie  czel) .c              ci
O e    oCM)    n                     M)
U~  ymc n inean                                               frw.uitee    2.             Zi_3.              an         I,'         9.600       1,400     30.800
& acl                                                       vialca
kLdlpn I pmd                                                  m.ra
oaf axi m mo1m             1      2                         viitne        4.            Zlh.                 rn        1,200      14,400         M       15,100
mem1v                        I                                Y.S,.        2 ySu          Usk                * yr   27.OM           27,mo                 27,0m
W-my rmdworfj/                                                                            2inhebm/
e*dpmm am _in          .          4                           eee    4.                 Said, Afda          mm 1n,60              25,60       1,41XI     27,O
Om_c Patina
P     mt&ccka m .                   I                            y 1f e  4m                TM                 a         1,600       6,4D0       1.000      7,4W0
pmcd Ac  edmdugy   I                                          sady vnic  lo               zibme               mmn       1,23D        1,2D 0       350       1,55D
S      dfLmc pmro"Xi                I                         saay  visi   4. 1A                              mm        1,00D 6,. 1,000                    7,400
!htia ~xu~                          I             lh.D.                     3 yemc        t5r                 a y*     27,000       27.,ao                27,000
mdpli of m_ue kwjllz                          3              e.lmdm          :           QC job
Tkiiwruicy/
Him                                      2                    c*,aeIv1c  Im               p. scdu             NM          80D        1.600   m     D      21.X
WaldlWccdi-                                                   an job 3Drl
Z         dcio                    3011 3.  r0                                              3)         120
cm job MMF
Caznm,ce                                               I      sadzucIai                   T.gdzm C.
(ic lmd11sw                                            2      accachme    3m              FmmmPd.j.t          mm a         5D         323          2)        33)
OIL Smakg
Gcmku w luahz                             I                   acecmdnc   4 *              ICRLSi              mm        3,I00       6,142       1.500      7,900
amjob
1C-ur ^Iesdo                        I                                                     ani  a job
kslem-1 hdl
ln gmtn 1mm                I                                 mtp visit  4.              1l TA .U            a an      1,6iU       6.40        1,.10      7,400
R     . & Pdofeln  et
not    Ewy  dn lemmas                   I                   acmdw    3. a         .      ud.                m nO3)                22.4D          50D     2450
9tl      .d                        I                         NJS.          2 yca         USA                a         2.32        27,00D                 27.0D.
Wad LIb.
LtbrAry y     i-                   _    _     _mc                          6. iadA                 i                      81_       4,820          10      4,810



Annex I
- 68 -                                                Table T-2
Page 5 of 5
UKk Qup A                             Soaff Ir               Thuztaw                                               tAc    Tca. Cost    T lX          Tmi
"t#ONJIM ScjPO   -                       rD  TA E      .     Accvtcy      Thzradm        laomecna         tAUc   ~Cm   (Stan omwu)   am              rest
__.  _    _                                                              nic~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 0m   tO}
UvwcodtasfLua
kembcdw '  i..                    I                        fLSe.        2 ym           a                *   r   27, cA 2.VOD
labxcr  -edadqum &
ee-       er tvldw                                        etcadim     6.                               am        1.6w0      9.600      1.500     I1.10
haVli                                      4              iUcnieda   4 So"         Hdkc               mmdc        50         ODD         40        m0
Piaidw  &      Winumcgadm
ft.acUe erAl                    2                          bDy wvide   I.           Z    _sbm         sn t       1.20       2,400        70       3,200
Sed Spvv1m
Fhucdcn1L mind amc.                     im                 Oa  Sad
* ordfXid.a                           I                   OwdfAcaVe  6.             ISJL              1Ic       15.000     I S.C00               15.1W
Kim ued woeedan                        2                    Kt* vylt  4ae                               a.        1.60D      12.800      1.50       4,30m
1dbocory baysI                          I percmrdftjce   9                           I b lywc             o         a0m       7.200         s      7.22)
a' job
-ennene eed                 I ~ ~~b huIuccia
Tgucnmmu= radhwLcq                     I                   acurJni
Af1acaayuf     cAdn mRyfi         L                        acudumie   4a n             myw              am        1.60D       6.400        3D      6.75D
Hm.diI aur. .uw  Lm                     I                  aruAcee   4.             -bgM/1s"           nur        12,ID      4,.8        35D      5.193
otWof vim                              I                   accadum      3m           h.2Y                            D       240D         I50      2.550
Tfum aguu1e                       I                        aceadmnic     a Ih-mucy'                     nu          am 3F0                 D         850
Cdfa
Iaubdc.  -rcst
& vmilz                         I                        acudutne   3              f h   p                      I.2DD       3.6D         3n0      3.9S
AwAzW praccim                           I                  an job       3              w l 1_
The 16c
Pft*Ad     mduul1                 I                        .'Lkc.       2 yuns         A                a yu     27.003      27,000               D.J00
AwdtOMcr                      I
M.Sc.  2    ZyrUra        hE                ay       27,"00                            27.1M
Reeh F'w_
dh mJlewidnery
_aInumm                               I                  aecadmen    4 umskm        IEIar             a ukc        40         240        5D        29D
Hydzuzlls iepmar                                    I      accadmu    2 Veda         lbmlm              *k           60        1JD         10        13D
Re1o,al Caiderm  I/ x H                                                                                             2.5D0      20,W                 31,00
Pk rl SaNdnm I x 7                                                                                                   S10       4.2m1       ,45       6,650
Toiln1m for lrfnhI                                                        Ir           IUW.                *ur    27,OOD                            27,0D
1/ lhtt of 4 perwu/dq  SU wac.



- 69 -
Annex I
Table T-3
Technical Assistance 1/
(person-months)
I.  LONG-TERM                                                                   Source
of
Specialty                      PYI    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    Total    Finance
Advisor ARC                  12     12      12     12     12      60 2/    IDA
Planning & Budgeting/
Financial Controller         18 3/  12     12      12     12      66       IDA
Librarian                    12     12     12      6              42       IDA
Procurement Specialist       12     12     12      12     12      60       IDA
Training Advisor              9     12     12      12     12      57       USAID
(to DAR and DOA)
Coffee (Contract Research)           6     12      12      6      36       IDA
Adaptive Research:
Agricultural EconoTics    4      12     12      8              36       USAID
Adaptive Research:
Agronomist                       12     12                     24       USAID
Production Economics          4     12     12      12     20      60       USAID
Horticulture                        12     12      12     12      48       USAID
Agroforestry                  6     12     12      12      6      48       USAID
Sub-total tong-Term          77    126    132    110      92     537
II. SHORT-TERM 4/                    15     15      9       9      9      57       USAID
Total                        92    141    141    119    101      594
=s =    ==  _                         =
I/ Technical Assistance costs are included in cost tables for identified purposes: ARC,
DAR Manpower Development, Library Development, Planning and Budgetting, Adaptive Research
Development, and Contract Research.
2/ Project provides for 3 person-years plus option to renew for additional two years.
3/ Includes 6 person-months prior to effectiveness, financed by Project Preparation Facility.
4/ Specialties as required: e.g. irrigation, livestock, cereals, agro-forestry, treenuts,
vegetables, computer systems analysis.



- 70 -
Annex II
Table T-4
NMLS
ISTIEL SIEU ELTAL KIEECI  MUC
Proect Coseats he Tear
Im  '000)
kws Costs                        Total
nus  1s  ow   19m  Iw   ImN aMU 
RaodDamS, am &  UUinuaas   man   sawManmn
A. SNIaLUEM   UNESCE   COICIL                            12.4    1.7   210.3   117.7   210.3    978.3          735
1. IVR IuFuSTALim      IIIIATIE ME  _KWIT                20225.7 5,7U.1  5t441.3  1.630.3   44.2 15,734.4  IIm.&6
C. on11 1ENT -D S1STEtS ISUETS /a
1. PROW  AN UETDISE                                     362.2   266.0   236.0   225.2   23.2  1t .7           m.2
2. MRO   PfMIE AND MMIES                                 23.1     3.1      3.1     3.1      3.1     35.3       26.6
3. LIEARt ANl BATA ETIIEW   lb                          737.3   632.6   413.9   236.4    10.7  29161.3   1,25.0
4. AULICITIIS DEWELOPEIT                                 13.3    13.5    13.1    13.1    13.8       61.1       51.7
Sub-Toutl M  NIWE1ENT AIl STM    IUENNS   /a             1,135.8   915.4    66.7   478.5   360.7  3!5.1   2.674.5
P. IAR STAFF DVELOPIIEUT                                 1362.5  1,64.7 2123.2  2,049.2  2,23.9  9,657.4  71261.2
E. RESEARC MLUAIORATI AND CONTRACT RENEMEN
1. IITEMTISA  UNEARCH COUANRATIE                         27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    134.9        101.5
2. CONTRACT UESEARC                                     192.6   266.2   230.2    55.0    52.6    346.4        636.5
Sub-Total RESEACH COLLA3ORATIU AD CWONTRCT INEARCH         219.6   293.1   307.2      3.9    79.6    m.5         730.0
F. RESEARCH - EXTEItSIS LIWIACES /c
1. AIAPTIWE  EREAt EVELOPHENT                           293.9   734.1   75.4   707.5   370.7  2,962.7   2.152.4
2. ESEWIC EXTESION  ORSHOPS                              18.0    39.0    19.0    18.0    18.0       B9.8       67.5
Sub-Total IESEMACH - EXTENSION LNMES  /c                   311.8   752.2   774.3    M.4   318.7  2,952.5   2,219.9
S. DIR DWNE PROGRAN
1. I I3PLE 7ATITX  OF RESEARCH PROU                   1,250.2  1.25B.2  1,25B.2 1325.8  1,372.7  6,472.9   4,366.9
2. ILDEIIAITTI3N OF TECHNICAL SERCES                    622.5   594.0   513.9   534.9   511.5   ,3B46.7   29140.4
3. AIIIINtSTRATIDN                                      746.3   66.7   635.0   552.5   501.5  3,131.9   2.354.B
4. FCILITIES OPEtATIUN AID SINTENANCE                   994.9   854.7   333.0    65.6   510.?  3,11.1   2.371.5
Sib-Total PARO SUING PROIN                               1.511.  39403.! 3.309.?  3.073.7 2p966.6  160270.6  -2.233.6
Total JA4ELDIE COSTS                                      38949.6 13.13!.8 13.039.? 8U.31.8 6,675.0 50.132.1  37,6933
Pbeical Cantifncinf                                       479.6  1ll68.4 1.152.7   563.0   373.7  3,737.5   :s10O.l
Price Contirsnrirs                                        412.0 2u050.1 3.536.0 39164.9  3.331.3  12.495.1   .t3S4.R
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        S.E41.3 16.405.0 17.77.6 11,f59.7 10.510  66364.7  49,3M9.3
Foreig  Echae                                           79237.3 9S715.6 11,101.5 790t9.1  6959.8 42.e23.3  32,191.0
la Statt relocation has ben included wider M  Intrastruture Colidation and Ieraveme.t.
lb Costs of library civil eirks are covered uir D"A tntrastrncture Conslidation and Imrovement.
le Preteratimn or localle scaf it extension materials is not costed separatele as end. costs are siniml and are covered b DOAR -nd MA current oreratiM expenditures.
January 15. I5  14:52



- 71 -
Annex II
Table T-5
"I
NAIONAL 1DCTO3TEML ENNUC PUECT
Pnreet Consent t. fYr
Totals Xcleudn Chtndincaie                       Totals Irocludini Cmntinhmcsm
IKWMM '0081                                       t1US  000
95    1996    1917   1M         9m    Total   135    1936    1987   M1     tm           btal
.: musing. main. sing. ..u=ug. ..ags  -gg  U s.u twggur aui.. XU.ugag   82:
A. flMUJISL T. EMOI COUCL                                  207.7   231.6   233.3   V5.4   334.4  1332.4   156.2   174.2   213.0  207.1  251.4 I:01.8
3-. W  WIW T2CTURE CISECUANU NO OrNOENET                 2:462.6 79496.9  3:0.2  2.472.2   716.3 21P240.7 1:851.6  5.636.3  6315.2 1:858.1  53.9 15:901.3
C. m AuLLcI m S              vSM u IMeos /a
1. l1 * MID UUIETTlING                                  394.2   321.1   313.1   327.0   321.7 1.77.0   29.4   241.4   235.4  245.9  241.3  1:260.9
2. PRiO"n A PMUlilK  AM EEN E24.3                                 3.8      4.1     4.5      4.3    41.4    13.3      2.1      3.1    3.4    3.6    31.2
3. LILS? Ml  DTA ETRE           lb                      8213.6   775.3   550.9   339.9   215.4  2:710.2   623.0   513.0   414.2  255.6  262.0  2.37.3
4. PIUCATION   EOPET                                     15.0    16.5    13.0    19.7    21.4       0.6    11.3    12.4    13.5   14.3   16.1    61.1
se-rotas 35R USfE    AS  SYSTEM wIIO          S /a      12262.2 19116.7   B86.1   691.1   5U3.3  4:519.2   W9.0   839.6   666.2  519.6  423.5  3397.9
3. IM  STAFF I      rEW T                                1:546.9  2P304.3 29935.3  39002.1  3:47.6 13:273.2  It164.6  1.732.5 2,207.0 2257.2 2P622.2  %9:3.6
E. RESEI MILATIION AIll COt R           MDIAT uS
1. NTESTI3a KSE3        l lIAMrIIN                       3.1    3045    33.2    36.2    39.2   167.2    21.1    22.9    25.0   27.2   2P.4   125.6
2.  aCT  35MW                                           220.4   335.8   386.2    92.2    85.1 I.119.7   165.7   252.5   290.4   6t.3   64.0   334.3
Sub-Total AESESC  CLLAATIOlt A  COTRACT R ESEI  H          243.5   366.3   419.4   118.3   124.3 1:276.B   182.8   275.4   315.3   39.0   93.4   960.0
F. IESEN4   - EITEIISIO LIIWMES /c
1. AWTHE  ESEiE40t  IELWNENT                            331.1   370.1   972.1 12054.5   606.9  3:334.7   243.9   654.2   730.9  m.9  456.3  2:183.2
2. RE1E*ARC EXTENSION   SIWllS                           13.7    20.4    22.3    24.4    26.4   112.3    14.1    15.4    16.8  I.3   19.9    34.4
S-rTotal IESE   - ENTEJISIN LIWAIES  /c                    349.1   390.5   "4.4  19078.9   633.3  3:"7.0   263.0   669.6   747.7  811.2  476.2 2NW.7
G. DIM OIIJI PRODm
1. INLEIENTATION ff  ESEAUN PUMIS                     19326.7 1:461.2  1604.1  1.S49.4  2:H3.6   325.3   997.5 1P09B.7 14206.6 1.390.5 1566.6  6:260.0
2. IULEINTA11TION OF TEClIL SERVICES                   6"0.9   69.2   746.0   747.0   M.5  3:623.6   496.9   520.4   560.9  561.7  584.6 2:724.5
3. 43II1ISTI3TION                                       311.3   S77.3   321.7   M.6   764.2  4:005.1   610.0   622.1   613.6  36.2  574.6 3:011.4
4. FACILITIES WETIO  MDIrIADWNCE                        962.7  1:013.1  1:36.5   945.6   35.1 4:V07.9   723.3   763.5   3169    n1.0  673.0  3:00.1
Sub-Total M  ONGOIE 91611                                3761.6 3:M.m   4:260.0 4:321.6  4.90.4 20:B62.4  2:32.3 3006.6  3:203.0 3:249.3 3:398.8 15:686.0
Tota INECT CASTS                                           9:B41.3 16:435.0 17:773.6 11:959.7 10430.1 66:364.7 7.399.5 12:334.6 13:367.4 8:992.3 7:134.6 49039.3
ur- -- _gunts. ::aun   uinusuuuaggunnrr--gg  cam  stg  uca  t=us. -ua  flsM
/a Staff rlocaion has bean izcludfed uer M  lIntrastructure Cmsolzdataom an loprovent.
lb  Costs of librarv civil orks arv coered erAer 3W Intrastructure Csolidaton ad Ivreovment.
/C Pre,araUon of localli speif0 etaion mterials is not costed separatelw as such costs are minial and are coRvred hi M  aiD03 cur iut eeratins eupenditures.
Janar 15. 291  14:53



askio ACy. 4 6. ,t&wlt3 5g'd.l
M e itifn       IM     11 1 W rI             W  XV E    A IF NV L     KVI 113*1    LU           ii1 LAT   IM 3Sa         6W 9199     E K   W S                    IWAJaIa      IS    AMI    rIEA LUIRUg          I    S
11111? cost
ISI MS
L33*1                                                            462.2                                                                                        -                                                                                               662
1s3bA   ml                                                     1.141.3                                                  -                                                 .9                                                                                3l
4-relil musa'                                       -           665.6                          -                                                      -      45.4         3.                                                                        -          ,4.
Ietll CIVIL W".                                                  " ,46.                                     .-                                              145.1        495.2                            -.- 16.301,1
FM7 491335*                                         .              99.9            -                                                                                                                                                                            91U....       
1331 me     Il61147                                                  1.                                  11                                                               5..                                              .-..                                  9.
total63491                                                       2.146.1                                1  21.4                        .                                  1.1          -.-.. 3                                                                     .:7
mUIL A Li1TNa                                   966.2           2,14.          96316        20.9        934.?7                   sm               134.9     all3       1.34.6                             .                 .              .              .
.Kau   1613934                                     .                  .        9*                        34.6                   2,2.14,-                                    .         .---  2.34.1.
61I34I6  19111                                  167             3#3,9.?      1.666           0.        3,19.3                    1 ,637.4         134.9    an.J        bo.215..*1,2.
Air call~s~ivIu
... .U334 ....                                  4.2..-                                                     . .....                                                                                       --                                                    59.
R.  N. 49331. I WAIl                                             211.4            .                                                                  -        .          4.9                                                                                  do.].437  3
1. 1931                                         11.                            3.4         7.6          11.6          33.1                                             laid7.     $134                  .                                                      11
I.93165                                             .                 -            .           .lM       III?          61.1                           .                     .          .                                                                  -     52.
1, PLAN [ISM LU 669111                              -                                                                                                                                                .149.1           2.6%,6           941.9          421.1  9.33.1
P. 1339491  LU 49,31C1116.                                                                                                                                                                            461.2             926.         13,33            311.2   I.M.4
I. 31131  LU4lIUM19411                                           326              .          -..1.                                                                       31.;                                         7n;11.1912.2.
3. 473  It                                          .                                                                                                                                                  4.9              419.5          Am.?                  3.23
-led   5 A5 1046434  49t9I3117                               175.1            .                                                  ..                    1.4         3.            .642                           2.6316.         3.111?        19.1    *40.3  14,3.9
I  int    is                                    111.1             413.3        141.1       31.1         511.2         "-I             .              .      31.7       19.0        pi              6,472.9            2.341.7         .1.          1,339.3  33,109.1
161149(1115                                     9713.           31,24.       3.M2.?        85.1       2.l41.1         68.6I     9,611.4          114.9   144.6       7,12.1       69.6             6.41.1           1214641          31l13.9       1.119,1  31,312.3
ell 1oa9iipwile                                  119.1           3,45.          III.#       4.1         1491.1         3.1        MI.                .     91.11       34.s                           32.9              25.2           334.9         114.   1,111.5
1i134wi9439                                    21636            1164          299.3 M      a.6         399.11        it.?      5244451.                   971         155.1 32.  ?1  4 E           .10.1              753.3            .19.         912.3  12-4151.
LAcY twig                                     31,1324           2.1,141.?    1,971.9       43.4       25719.2         91.6    31.7591           365.9  .1619.?      31,34.7      112.1             1.321.1           3.16            4.63.1        6,969.9  U,66.71.
. .......i.. . .u.a,.han.                                                    .       ,.*..nu.........lf*~~   54*5.                                 ll~lfl       f     t
PI jmw6                                       326               2,61.91      1,111.9       R.7        '-2.192         49.      294.              4. .9       9       .2,6        1.               31431.13.                         Z.&13.2        2,96.1  42923.3
..  ........ .     ...........       -.-.--             .     -.---.........                                                                   .-.... .. .....
I'e fItamal  s.1   ...  .4,,,i   .,lU9  bn al 9ua.n  klawslmn. Au.,.4su hnl (mimI. Plot tatnaUm  ad 1m1tf4:m. Cma Irodn lwul,sm. b  giili58i.
As, INS  35



- 73 -
Annex I1
Table T-7
Illl111lUt,UL1101
Smu, t eEmts bh TMu
am cots                       Fonrae Enhwu
ams  1m   m7 1u Ia  nm  TdA    z  hmt
1. IaslEwn  can
S. amL S
i. mm                                     77.  117.3 1.42.9   431.7   95.1  3.4)7.5   39.2  1354.4
2. 115743
L1f1fuES An am                             - 223.  1  143.7   419.3   21.0  4143.0   39.2  2779.9
LIUM                                       -   219.0   134.6    39.2        -   442.7   39.2    173.4
Dam5NM                                    -     0.4   *9.1   200.2        9.1  24.3   39.2    7X.2
9flTotaI 3430                               - 3.20.4 2393.-3 4.    4.7    24.0 6.4.   3h.   iSA
ef-Tutal CIVIL IN                            77.9 430.2 44,1'.3 1.13.4   119.2 10307.0   39.2  4,63.2
3. SWAF tOATbC                               30.2    24.6    24.0    10.7      04    '9A.   49.2       49.
C. EMfIT
SCTIFC   InPnT                               -      A     45.9   426.1    44.1  120M.3  260.3  .201.0
FM  nOOT                                  324.2   221m.    343.1    23.2      -   90.2  100.3    947.2
%1310                                       a.6    n2.e    2ss     9.o   it.7   30.1  160.3         W.1
071   MIeIfET  M  FNITT1                  232.7   I2V.1     6.5     9.0      7.3   412.6   ".3    467.2
IS0     -  MUIICITIM                      47.2   18.7    75.6    75.6    71.5   43.6  100.3    434
sbT-foul  oM T                              ,L34.0   72.2 1.31.      a.          25Wy  3    .2   ".A   3i11
3. ltPllPI *31T1 l                        3231.4  3.033.2 2M732.3  2.00.3 1,71.7 M22715.9   99   12,724.3
i. 33*1KM
1. DEN    UNIINI                         29.1   23.1   46.3  532.3   620.7 24347.9  160.3  2.341.9
2. OM  - MN   ATIMI                      422.    439.6   444.9   40.3   425.0 2.2343   11.9   1739.4
Snttal 13li1                                631.6   715.7 1,216.2   13.6 23045.7 4,532.3   9.3  4.17-5
Total JIMCIT c63                             5,04.2  9.313.  9735.3 4.72L8 3.   132.! 3122.7   73A  2420. .2
11. O"  CUT
A. InC INN?s (Ei icTittlm
1. AlUIIMB CUItTMCNES                    30.6    33.4      3.5    52.1    n.7   249.6   82.2    265.2
2. IJATlAL WSAL SWIEITS                  3h.   40.2    47    47.5    43.3   22.            0.0      0.0
3. 11221mmw EWIST UN                     1124.0   124.0   n5.3  I2o.    212.5   36.3  9Ll    743.7
4. K.  NMT. t SPIN                       175.4   267.7    95.2   U0.1   I.7   60.2   39.2    273.3
s. SLn                                   4t.2    4S.1    56.3    63.4    71.1   20I.    60.2    2312.
6. PU1_ClT16                             43.2    41.2    46.2    40.2   40.2   201.0   ".4    197.3
a-utai tEE COSTS (SI lTmETIS)              49.4   4Mt   4.7   40.2   608.4 2.472.             6.7  143.
3. 5! curl WmoRN WT2VTJBst
I. SNAIls A   cin_m i                  19722.0  I.49.3 2.6274.  1.3a.a  l564.5  bl3.23     3.0      3.0
2. EUIPN     Mm    E UI                 6217.2   56.6  131.   414.6   40.5  2s3.4    0.3  2.344.3
3. UIITNE NO PNUIDIUSISa  N             420.7   50.0   442.5   356.2   361.2 2.O2.7 .     3.6  3,634.6
I. W liES                               442.5   434.2   413.3   32.3   362  2044.0   35.4  12137.4
5. am11 la                              244.6   244.6   244.6   244.6   244.6  2223.2   76.9    90.5
subtotal EEC mmT   hO1hUINO ACIVITEI     3447.1 3h413.0 3214.9 3,02.72 14.1 1663              7.    4
TOtWl 5    1  COSTS                          3965;.5  3,673.8  3Z734.6 3.5       3.492.! 134.3   42.6  7.7A.7
Total   JINE COWS                             6-V.94 13.15.3 13.019.  ur2n.s  675.0 50132.1   64.9 32596.9
P1.null Etlmanno,                            479.6 124.4  1.12.7   53.0   373.7  3737-5   72.3  2703.3
Price hiAltmeiC                              412.0 2D.0.6  3.560 3d44.? 3331.3 12s495.    60.5  7.512.4
lobl POLt CISTS                               *2. W1I.4L. 17773.6 11.9.7 ?16.33.1 66-.34.7   64.5 42.623.3
Fwsse E.huu                                7,237.3 9.715.6 12.101.! 7,019.2  6b5.3 42,323.3    0.0      0.0
/a  lnls Extenl Trawl. frats. SOuwriu.u. SU*wtauu. Sperial lnurmd ArUviathis NiatrAs Plt CarnAl. Plant lUaumtn, -  PrrBetw n. Crw or ?rS                  Im;uctl.. ad US trils.
but.. 23. 196 14:47



- 74 -
Annex II
Table T-8
suavkmau kmva
Totas Inrludim Cutufwmnu                         Tols twISli  Cotshus
IWr4  I ml                                         (ml 'MIO
1       1 1916    nu     am       o       w       195    nom       inM    Iou    ls    low
1. ucESlNDsT c6iiS
6. CIVIL 
.am                                        94.0 2.00.5  1.1644    763.9   164.0 4.5.4    70.7  1.510.6  1.41.1  574.3  123n   3.61.3
2. 3CKS0
LAScTDhIES AND  F                          - O2.H4.3  2.7.3 3   449.      25.3  6,367.5      - 2.217.5 2M062.7      | 11.4   19.4 4.737.6
LM                                         -   239.3   267.3   42.1          -   659.3       -   21.9  201.4   46.7          -   46.0
EX(1I IMS                                  -  1ne.2     1.13.5   327.5    15.6 2d627.5       -   8l325    93.   233.3   31.3  595.6
Sub-tltal rEB03                               - 4.345.0  4.2".6   2.03.7    41.4  9,14.7        - 3*266.9 37.6   M.5   31.2  7.22.1
- - -- --_- - - -- - -- -- -__-- - --  - _- - -_._-- - ___ 
sk-Total CIVIL MM                             94.0 6uIN.3  6.064.1 s.7M9.6   2e5.4 144510.2    70-7 4,7.5  459.4 1.347.1  13544 23-.9
3. slurr KELKATIW                             36.4    32.5    376    36.9    14.3   137.7    2.4    24.4    23.3   12.7   :0.1   103.5
C. .(n__
sCEIFIII  EWIRPIE?T                           -    35.4   117.6   659.6   102.2  1,94.5         -    64.2   667.4  45.9  76.9 3.274.3
FAS    INER                               402.7   272.0   464.1    34.3        - I3l75.0    302.3   204.5   330.4   25.1        -   13.4
5U51.3ES                                  311.1   201.1   200.3   236.7   175.2  2021.1   291.3    76.3   213.7  162.3  131.7   620.9
crFIaE (OIrPln ou rUn1j11E                323.7   2.2I       33    13.3    12.1   35.0   243.4   171.5         6.2   10.0    3.3   43.9
S      e AM PMIATZoIs                      54.0   209.4   102.3   118.5   154.2   591.3    40.6   517.4    7.    13.3          31   444.6
S*-ToUal EOUIUIIh                          31635   3959  1,755.3   915.3   403.2 5,133.0   6.6   673.6 1,319.6  633.2  33.2 N13.3.1
3. liCSL ASsISlUICE                        1.5113  3693.3  3.615,1 2.10713 29m.2 16476.5  2.M.4  2,774.5 2#71B.l 2.15.9 2.1.6 12463.5
C. IINJIUR
1. KOE TRAINING                           294.7   330.3   903.0   756.3   990.8  3,.25.1   222.6   263.4   679.0  53U.7  745.0 2.47.5
2.       IVA3  - lER T13131               470.4   529.9   587   441.2   653.3 2.U1.2   351.7   31.4   441.1  432.1  491.0 2i166.3
Sib-Total  AININIE                           765.1   110.2  1.411.7  l.397.6  3,64l3.  6,176.3   575.3   661.3  1,120.1 105.3 3.259 4643.9
---- - ----- ------- - -=- *-- -- -_ ---- -  - ---- -_ - -- - -- --- - -- .- --- ------       
IIKSTIEN    ETS               n              552.911.2.7.9.  712.65042.0 429.316 4.20.3 3.9213  9.745.35  25.4 3.uM.03.M.9
it. I033111  aSTS
A. RKC COST (NEU 41   VITIES)
1. COM1O3  WNSSTAI(lS                      23.2    33.3   46.2      76.5   133.7   354.7    26.4    23.3    45.0   57.2   19.2   26.7
2. IEXM4L S4UIWS DEMS TS                  42.4    53.8    40.5    61.5    74.9   293.2    31.9    39.3    45.5   5t.7   56.3   224.2
3. VE0I1E 33 EI029    UN1 3313.4   250.5   220.7   276.0   334.4  Ij20.I   504.1   213.    u5s9  27.5  253.6   32.2
4. KM. NRIN. I MIPR                      330.1   193.1   120.3   173.5   243.9   312.6   13.4   14.2    90.3   91.3  IN.    643.4
5. SUPLIES                                52.4    56.9    7.0   110.5   120.1   336.0    3.4    42.          57.2   6.1   D2.3   290.2
6. PULUCATIEIS                            42.5    46.2    50.2    54.8    59.3   252.3    32.9    34.6    V.    41.2   44.6   590.2
kb-Total NEC COSTS qld 4tTIWZTIESI          494.9   537.6  U64.1    86.2   941.4 3I.24.4               4.    461.7  SM.   707.3   2.0
3. tMCOSTS 1(sIO S ACTIIVITIES)
1. SEsES  3 KNElfITS                   5.316.7  1C45.3  2i6.5 2.210.6 2.03n.5 10453.1  .3         1,443.0  15".53 1.60.1 319.6 1m   9 .5
2. EoUJPTo   M0 51IC  053 6e0.4   612.3    6.1   651.3   411.2 3324.0   512.6   523.0   520.4  494.7  40.5  2479.2
3. UTILITIES NO NIILIUSAIMS 3I5P941      474.7  607.2   592.1   513.7  4m.J  2,613.4   35.9   456.5   445.2  130     3.5 2316.1
4. SULIES                                4U.4   5010   sn.5   52.0   543.9 254.3    30.7   376.7   37.4  394.7  4X.9 1#.92.4
S. 013/a                                 255.3   273.2   303.9   333.6   30.5  123.4   292.9   239.2  m2.a  26.3  270.3 1.149.2
-- - - --- .-.- --- - ---                        -- -- -   --    _- -.-- - -- ---
Sub-Total MEC COSTS 0l0l116 ACTIVITIES)   3.63.5 4.014.4  4,201.1 4,243.9 4.36.7 20,55.7 2,777.1  3,023.4  3,160.2 3.19 I.30   13h432.4
Totul E03RU1 COSTS                           4,111.4 4.35.3 4.317.2 4,930.2  5.1.1 23. 36.23,4;9.2 3.422.U  3.6f1.9 3.7046  4,052.6 17.914.3
....... ........ ..LI.... I........ .. I  ... ., .. . .... ......., ...... ,*  , .., -O.
Total PmozCT 0515                             *4 41.3 16.405.0 37.713.* IJ95.7 10.30.1 66.364.7  7.3.5 12.334.6 13.367.4 3,92.3 7.34.K 49.33.3
.....          .- - .- ........ : .s .....a..  ... .Saaa ... M. s ti
/a  Iixl,*s Ixtumna ltrawl I* SrantW   SubsiripIis, SnlSWfsIhM. sinuS fwerrh  ava tars. )iayator, Pet Caiero) tnS 0    nl r w *  Pvotnetm., Crw tader Iowutsam  Ad Dsmerae
fW     15, IM  1n :



- 75 -
Annex II
Table T-9
MALAWI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Transfer of Operating Costs of New Activities to Revenue Account
PYI      PY2         PY3         PY4        PY5
MK '000 (Costs including contingencies)
Activity
ARC I/                    -         -         19.8         21.7      59.8
Planning & Budgetting    -          -         36.3         39.7      47.1
Planning & Review         -        -           4.1          4.5       4.8
Library                   -        -          82.1         89.5      97.0
Publications              -        -          18.0         19.7      23.3
ARTs                      -         -           -         278.9     343.9
Workshops                 -         -           -          24.4      26.4
Contract Research         -         -           -            -       82.4
Scientific M & R          -        -           1.2          5.4       7.4
Office Eq/Farm M & R      -        -           1.3          2.9       5.6
Building M & R            -         -           -            -      243.9
TOTAL             -         -         162.8       486.7      941.6
Percent of recurrent cost of new
activities (per PY) to be financed            26.5X        70.9%     1OOX
by GOM.
1/ Exclusive of first triennial review



MALAWI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Covernment Cash Flow Projections */
(HlK '-000) 
1      2      1      4      5      6      7      3      9     10    11    12    13    14    IS           1      17    1t    19    26
Co IWLU
MD                      SW    16W   2 24      5W    2      1209      -
IN4                    23W  _ 9    "of        .  _O         9        -      -      - _  .  _
MAL IiU                26W    OM    1231   IdW   S90    2100         -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
CAIN mimu
PIUT IW. CUR  b/   OM   1150   122W           W    430      NW0   40    5W    1W    30W   170    1600    9W    10           M     3      490    9      1W 
miJ. EKC                so  So  60  7W  "W  "W  "9    W   9W   9 o                                    9    9   9   9    9W  "W  9W   9 
URSEC MtnIlE           27M    4100   480   45W   490   4*   49*   49W   49W    49    49W    49W    4M    00    4W    49    49W   49    49                     4W
1641/                   2M     2W    2W      20      20    124    112   122       92    64    342    I15    2       261    23     21U   I9      1      162    144
TOTAL 0II*            9M7  ISM   173    11W   1W    4724   6312   62   59    614   7NO    7115   6H               661   U3    06   AM  A1 M    462   644
[OM  311111 1 T      -64     -75     -5*  -22N  -49W   -424  -6312  -U02  -2  -UU14  -72  -7115  -63   -6161  -424  -61   -9   -N   -62  -6744
ZIFLU 3t111I thC?   -37W   -410  -45     -40  -45  -5445  -50   -54S    -545  -S     -54     -4     -54     -5  -54   -65  -m4   -54   -54   -54
1E  IlUMl              -*   -34W    400   27         54     21   -      -1257   -547   -739  -227  -1670  -1543   -716  -7M   -17    -        -1435  -1117  -129
-------------                                          ----
a/   At current prices up to 1989/90 and at 1990 constant prices thereafter exceot debt service charges.                                                                     |
6/    Assums replacement of scientific equipment every 8 years, and of farm machinery, equipment and vehicles every 5 years.                                                0|
cl Assu _ * a 10 year grace period and an aninual charge of 0.52 ou the undisbureed balance and 0.75X on the disbursed balance.                                         o



- 77 -
Annex II
Table T-11
MAIAWI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(US$ mlilion)
IDA FY                     BY HALF YEAR       CUKULATIVE         z
1985/86
1st Half Year                   0.6                 0.6
2nd Ralf Year                   1.2                 1.8               8.0
1986/87
1st Half Year                   1.8                 3.7              15.0
2td Half Year                   3.6                 7.3              31.0
1987/88
1st Half Year                   3.7                11.0              46.0
2ad Half Year                   3.9                14.9              63.0
1988/89
1st Half Year                   3.9                18.8              79.0
2ad Half Year                   1.7                20.5              86.0
1989/90
1st Half Year                   1.7                22.2              93.0
2nd Half Year                   0.8                23.0              97.0
1990/91
1st Half Year                   0.8                23.8              100.0
Assumes Project becomes effective May 1985.



Is.,'
NMTIlt"I 51CULTMAL  15SE1C  PFOECT
Table 130. 1R AMDINISTRAIICN
Detailed Cost table
(15CM '0001
Totals iL..udid Contin*gnies
Cumtit                                        Passt Costs                   lotals Includirs Contindencirs                     W    '060
_______~~~~~~~~ . ._._... .  _ .  .............  ._.    -  -  ----   __ -  __ --------
Unit 1915 16 I17 1"?      1 IM  Total Unit Cost  I2       9    198 7  19M   1M    Total    I25  19M   1957  19i  I          Total    1ll  1986  19m7  t93   1m    Tta
ERAS  R3tz 3ra3  333  hlsh  33  3ss3   3a3333333s  S33s 3s333 33a:a 3ass3  3as33 ma::2                  a raxzz   as a :::: : s ac : 33333  333 13uh11 33333 Z:am: :*::sa: nr   s Z 3  ewa::
30ES15                             I    I    I    I    1      5      S.145    6.2   O.l   9.1   S.1   6.1    40,7    8,5   9.2  10.1  11,0  11,9    50.6    6,4   6.9   7,6   1.3   8.9    39.
E DIN                                                                        295.3 274.9 234.2 193.4 142.5 1140,3  33.31 342.4 318.3 296.7 229.8 11524,4  254,3 257.5 239.3 215,6 172,0 1136.
ES AD IEMEFITS
ANIID STAFF                        I    I    I    I    I      5         63   630  63,0  63,0  63.0    .0   315.0   66,5  73.4  90. 3IS.4  96,4   40.5   50.0  55.2  6f.7  66.5  72.5   304.
-ESTAKISHED STAFF                  -     -     -       -     -  -            168.0 147,0 126.0  94.5  94.5    30,0  177.2 1713 161,5 132.6 144,6   787.3  133.3 1218o 121,5  f.7 106,7   592,
S IES        R EK FITS                                                       231.0 210,0 189,0 157.5 157.5  945.0  243.7 244.8 242.3 221,1 241.0 1,192.   133.2 14.0 IB.2 I2   '..    396.
lUNcRIP, 9JIIC1W1                 I    1    1    1    1      5    103.234  103.2103,2 103.2 103.2 103.2  516.2  107.4 116.5 127,0 138,4 149.9   639.1    07  17.6  95.5 104.1 112.6  430.
6ES                                .     .     .     .     .    --.2  72,0  n.70  617  61.7   347,7   33.9  84  9021  64.3  91,6   432,3   63,1 61.   7.9  63,4  68,8   325.
AL TRaWLLIIU                        I    I    I    I    I    5       29,406   26.4  23,4  2194  21,4  2H,4i  1420   29.5  32.1  34.9  39,1  41,2   1759   22.2  24.1  26.3  29.6  31.0   132.
ET COSTS                                                                     746.3 696,7 635,0 552,5 50.S5 351,9  S111.3 927.3 82297 7796 744.2 44005.1  610,0 622.1 418.  566.2 574,6 3 t011.
alan2 *-.s: WAIR:: :ammaa -Z   211sax         aZC33::  ::3   -::n: 3:3:3 --:-2==-  =-- =- 1== -x a-It
746.3 696,7 635.0 552.5 501.5 3231,  911.3 327.3  22.7 779.6 764.2 4m005.1  610.0 622,1 613.6 566,2 574.6 3.011.
333  2::33   33  uaun naa3333   sta333 azaa 3333333  an sazat   ama  fh gaax a*rsaw  33b                    as: azzia
995--- 142 24__                              ......      _            ..................
me 14124



ITllL   s NAII    1 t
Till. 131, IWL3NTKATII OF EK~ No p
klaIled Cost Table
Totals tnrludiod C,Ur.enies
Owuitt                                            kw  Costs                              Totlus Ineluding Congilen                                 (US  '000
Unilt IM5 I1  1937 I9   I     Total  hilt Cst  195    1916    1"7    1"           1m9   ITUl    15    21           197    Im    I5m    Totl          M    19      I"3?    193      19     Totl
Bass  52rs 2:21 Bass 22a32  222   *v"*  2*:z2::::::-- :??:   25s=2 22a2 . .....=on 2w2a2=:  22222-  22-222  &..=22  2XI252 wrama2 _TROV88 5    rr  112211SI2  25rIM  MR&SLR 8*        2        2 r
0111
.StAF                       I    I   I    I    I    5          361   86120   84210   8624.    3.0 @ 61.0 4.30    9M641t003.11030  1,206.4    7.?5.5414  63.0   754.5  33.00   90.6  994.4e4l
STAB. sT1                   .     .    .     .     .                  134.5  13.S  136.5   13.8  210.0  803,3   144.0  159.1   175.0   257-.  3221.3 557,   106,   J1IM    131.4  ImP  241.6  794-1
AL. AO3 KEFITS                                                        t 95   97       3972S 104.3l 12071*05 0 10M.3  102.4 15162.6 1.271,8 1.4663 J.63315 6191.6   2t.3  374.11  9t15 t1102.5 1,231.9 4WHO
MT*    -                                                              1 _  *  42.5   We2l5  142.5   MM    133  74       1435   16121   l74,5   214.5   2679   973.S   1.   12154   132.4  56.0  201.4  721.1
OPTIOI                      5    5    5   5    5    25        .t131    50.9   50.9   50.t   50.9   50.9   254.5    55.7   60.5    66.0   72.0    7.0  33.3    419    45.1    4.7   54.1   36.6  249.1
U11. M1.                    4    4    4    4   4    20      10.151     4O0,    40,7   40.7   40,7   40.7  203.6    42.4   46,2    50,3    54.9   59,4   231    31.9    34.7   37.3   43.3   44,7  593.
IC  ucItfP   HaI            I    I   I    I    I    s        2.08       1.0     5.0     2.0    5.0      5.0     5.1      1.1     1.2     1.3     1.4    t.5      6,l      0.3    0.9    0.9    1.0   11         4,1
W9LIES                      I    I    I    I    1    5        20.5    10.5    10.5   10.5   10.5   10.S   52.5    11.1    22.2   13.1   14.7  1261    67.6    3.3    9.2   l0.t   11.1   1241   3.1
S. ACTIVITIES               I    I    I    I    I    5      14.441    150    1.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   740              1257    17.2   13,3   20.5   22.3   945    11.3   12.9   14.1   15.4   16.3    711
I COIIS                                                            12,51.2 5.256,2 225832 1325.3 1372.7 6.4729  1.176.7 1.41.? 1.60403 151394 2.064 3,25,3   97.s 1 2.07 1966 5.390!  5.5466 4A266.1
*2S-22.  222222S    *2   :=*= CR22BE2 222 rss        -2 225=2? 292:218    2IS2    2                            2     =xe     2 2i       2e *amms -.MR rs sts  ws _V&    _
1928.2 1.2562 5,258.2 t632 ,3 5.3n77  4n72.9  12324.7 124*12 I0. 534i.4 2M0O3.W  3             1325.3  tt7.S 10s    11.2.4.6 5390.   54-6 6,264
at.ma" s:::*ra 22=- ar arw0*0 T  URaST. VO110  888sx.4 "=..SW  Bass." %Wc:ars,  a r,,   atm         aM rsast aut-.:  aftwr     SS _2
_._.__._._ I.....................222..2 _                                             ...__.  2..2....22 ,   _.,                .    ,,        22* ,_hh_               5=522 _,, _m              _ _
5i 14225



At          N
T7*3   32.I IIEWINT6T 1OF  OMIICA. URVICUI
btati3d Cost labl1
TotTtllCuc 11u1  Cmt'006)
ewneszw                                     kwCsts                      ToUls IncludirdConin       ill                  full  M)
Unit IMs 11       7 I"?   9IM  TOtal Ihit Cost  1M    19m 7 199   1      6 I  .   3ot3l IM    Im  37 Im     3M6M  Toatl    IM   196  Im     I9  umri total
1. KFlt COSTS
A. 1*1*111   LS 3 1I3S
_.___......_._...._....
EIN2Lu SNTA F                                  1   I   I    I    5          210  210.0 210.0 210.0 210.0 210.0 1010.0  221.6 244.3 269.2 294.7 M31 13351.5  1U4. IA4.0 2.4 221.6 241.6 1,06.2
IIMIFAS6113 A0                            .         .T.    .    .                122.0 126.0 126.0 226.0 12260   ue    1332. 146.9 101.5  16. 192.6   31.9  99.9 110.4 221.5 131.0 144.1 649.7
SrT.O3 56I6 S An S IUITMSi;171                                                      336.0 33.0 136.0 336.0 336.0 I3,61.0  354.5 391.6 430. 4 1.6          54.0 2,56.5  26.S 294.4 U-S.9 354.6 5416.5 l"25.
lo 111C0L.11. *IES                             6       5    3   2   22    10.111   01.1  614  10.  30,5 20.4  224.0  6    72.6  6.0  43.2  It.2   29M   50.2  54.  497  32.5  23.5  210.4
C. .l001 IJE11I.                                       .                             61.4  U.3l 61.1 40.  35.6  260.0  *9.1  72.6  19.2 57.6  54.    M3.2   67.0  54.o  5.6  U.3 4A.3  265.A
to FIEL EWIPI ET  11.4. .1                        -   --                             40.7 32.6  32.6  24.4  563   36.6   4.4  3.9  40.232.9  23.1  l7376.   33.9  V1.  3.3  24.  51.   132.5
1. KIE-uNFZC MlPl. NW                        2   2   2   2    2    10        1.01    2.0   2.0  2.8  2.0  2.0  .10.2   2.1  2.3  2.5  2.7  3.0   12.7   led  13.7 ta   2.1   2.2    *.
F. ETICE SJfIO                               I   I   A   I    I    5          3.35    3.2   M    3,2  3.2  3.2   15,6   3.3  1.7  4.0   4-4  4-.   20.3    2.5  2.3   3.0  1.3   3.6   15.2
0. K3IMTT WIT ClfTlS                         I   I   I   I   I    5    61.937 613,  63.9  61.9  61.9 61.9  309.7   64.9  71.1  77.0 0.0 92.4  39.2   0.1  3.4  U.S  U.9 69.4  294.1
N. ur MTrICF   W UN~ITE                      I         I   I   I    S    1.41  11.4  13.4  11.4  11.4  11.4    W.0  fl.i  33.0  14.2  Is5s 16.    nn              M.   .J  30.7  II.7  12.7   01.9
E. 511 PON"  INCWECTI6                       I           I    3 1   I    S    144   15.5  11.5  15.5  15.1  11.5   774   16.2  171   9., 21.1 21.1    97.3  12.2  13.4  14.6  16.   17.4   73.5
J. SIW ICS                                   I   I   I   I   I    5           .2J    9.3   .3  9.3  M.   9.3    46.3   9.7  10.6  11.6 12.7  13.7   No2   7.3  6.0  6.7  9.5  10.3   43. 
____________________ ................................................ I~~ 
Total      IT  COS                                                                     6.1 14.0 923.  549 5s15.5 26.,7   6.9 692.2e 746,0 747,0 7I. 3.u,  46.9  0.4  .99 1  94.6 2,124.5
etal                                                                                    622.1 594,0 93.6 51 34.1  5I .5 251 .3 7  66U0.  M.2 746.0 747*. 77.17  3,623.6  496.9 52.4 560.9 561.7 U4.6 2724.
burw  I, IM   14326
IM 
rX
mx



513oK  3M3A1M EUCtM MrECT
ble I33n. ,1itL3h3S MwIsA
ktllSd Cot table
(KNOW 1003
bajilta                                      INu Costs                      Totals (ILidA      sm7nvitas               totals Mr dia in ttiaocags
cuss '000)
Uihtl  3931  3  I"6337? 3m93    otal  Unit Cost 15  I91 "     7  193o  9m   Totl 1t      s   9M       19 I7   I1M   1  toutl         m 3936  3937  3933  am   r.t.a
I. EDUNT CMOSIS
A. ITILIIIIES                                                                                               344.2 36.2 314.2 272.9 253.5 I354.9  326.6  431.2  472,2 404.4 403.7 2M3OM3   293.2 324.2 m3. 34.3 3035.5  e1.3
S. U S1A5 . STAFF F- AIR                                                                      -             157.5 126.0  05.0  36.3     -   475.3  346.2  346.9  134.6  53.6       -  4.2    24.911041032                  -  375
C. 33U3I3s MS E1t13   ai Vs1311t3ct   N11 MI393                     I    I    I   I    I    5    32.349  V2.3   2.3  32.3  12.3  32.3  411.7   U.4   94.    1033.9 13.6 123.4   22.1    65.0  71.3  7.1  850.4  92.3  392.
I. OF3CE EUIlST An FIITUllt MuNTE               AllO IIAII3.3. 42   7.5  9.9  12.4  12.4   41.5   6.5    3.6   125  37,1  133.6   63.4 7 0                                                     l5  9.4  12.9 3140    47,7
E. 13133(                                                                                                   3            34,61 336.3 1333.6 305.3  73.3  539.3  344,3  3159.5  368.117  8 32*.   740.3   103.5 119.9 126.1 3111.1  93.6  'A7..
F. EK1MNI Or  WIUtI. YE.. 3K.                                       I    I    I   1    3    5    I3O.95   1013.@ 303.0 101,0 10120 101.0  504.38 135.0   33.9   24.2 1334 346.5  62I3.          71.9  5.7  93.4 30S.3 110.1  469.9
5. HliC     I                                                       I    I    I   I    I    5    54.9153   510  5,0  51.0 55.0  55.0  214.3  57.7   63.3   69.3  75.3  32.4  346.4    433  47.6  52.1 57.0  61.9  23619
Total ELIMM   COSTS                                                                                           S34.9 154.7 S33.0 6S.6 560.9 3L39.3  962.7 1,033.1 306,35 95.4  5.3 4907.9   72j.i 763U5 336.9 711.0 6730 3.6903.
33     ws33       ows3     a3330 =8    3833   gs :S-'       ...  t Sn._  S3    *-,          8* --*3a S:a nam sawas"
total                                                                                                           3l4.9 314.7 133 .0 665.6 50.9 319.1 3 R.?7 3,033.3 1336.5 945.6  5.1 49o07.    723.3 76.5 636.9 733.0 673.0 3,4"9.
._ . _.__....... .. . .._ .__ .. . ..___.__.._.._........._ . _..... .  .. . _ ...... -._..._._......... . ..         . ....... .... . .                       ___,, - -                             ----
Jneri 135 aM 14327
-
or 0
3-



- 82 -
Annex II
Mable T-16
MAIAWI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEAURCH PROJECT
Advance for Preparation of National
Agricultural Research Project
Items                                          Anount
(US$)
1. Architectural consultancy firm, consisting of a senior architect,
senior quantity surveyor and other architectural and support staff
to prepare detailed designs and tender documents for civil morks            395,500.00
contracts to be let in Project Year 1, including re-design of major
Ministry of Works housing prototypes, including all those under
the project, to reduce unit costs.
2. Programming and budgeting consultant to design task-oriented
system for Department of Agricultural Research (DAR)                         75,200.00
3. Consultant to organize documents in the DAR library                          37,600.00
4. Upgrading of DAR Training Officer in designing and managing
training program                                                             20,000.00
5. Air fare and subsistence to bring consultants to Malawi for
interviews, to permit their appointment prior to effectiveness               15,000.00
6. Equipment for data processing in DAR                                         40,200.00
TOTAL                                                                  583,500.00



- 83 -
Annex III
rage I of 2
MALAWI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
DAR Annual Planning and Review Exercise
(See Chart)
Becween the end of each growing season and che beginning of che
next, an annual planning and review exercise would be carried ouc in che
following scages:
i    Commodicy and Adaptive Research Group Reviews (end-July).  Each
Nacional Coordinacor would conduct a decailed review of the
resulcs of the previous season's research, and appraise the
research proposals for the next fiscal year. This evaluation
would be based on reports by the CTLs and on the annual Research-
Extension Workshop. Commodity ceam and ART reviews would be
chaired by the relevant National Coordinacor and would include
che CARO, Depucy CARO Research, and CTLs.
(ii)   DAR Review and Planning Exercise (mid-August).  Based on che
above commodity reviews, all the National Coordinators, CARO, and
Depucy CAROs would sit as a panel to review and evaluace the
previous season's program and, in that light, and in line with
economic priorities, both to (a) adjusc the program for che nexc
season and (b) plan the next fiscal year's program. A represen-
cive of the Excension Service, including represencacives of
selected ADDs would also participate. Each Nacional Coordinacor
would presenc a report reviewing and evaluacing che previous
year's program and recommending a program for che nexc fiscal
year.
(iii)  Program and Budget Paper co ARC and ARC Review (end-Augusc-
October). The CARO, with assistance from the Depucy CARO
(Research) and che Nacional Coordinators, would prepare an Annual
Program and Budgec Paper to che ARC (September). This would
explain che objectives of the program and how these supporc
national priorities, and would emphasize new directions and
alteracions in the proposed budget allocacions from che previous
year (Occober). The ARC would review and adjust emphases in the
program as necessary co reflect majbr nacional priorities and
recommend changes as necessary inter alia co maximize cosc-
effeceive parcicipation by NGOs and the University. The ARC would
review the draft budget, adjust as necessary, and endorse it.
A representative of the Treasury (preferably the Undersecrecary
for Revens;e) would participace in this ARC review. Thereafter
(November), a statemenr would be prepared by the ARC to che
Treasury, to accompany DAR's budget submission; this would rank
DAR's priorities for the coming fiscal year. GOM would agree co
cake chis scacemenc into accounc, sucn that budget cuts, if any,
would be associaced with che prioricy syscem.
(v)    Budgecary Adjustments (end-November).  Afcer Treasury review, the
CARO, Deputy CAROs, and National Coordinacors would adjusc che
budgec allocacions as necessary to preserve priorities agreed
with the ARC.



M~R ikmial Plarxz,  wx Itview Proes
Winter           ,___ __    _    idz^  Seson                                     Fiscal Year
Jme  July   higst  September  Ortober    %,vr   leber   JY                    Fehruary  March      April  Ky
1.  Researchers anilyze rsearch memults
ard write firv! draft Inputs to
Anmal Report
2.  Rearclers provide CrLs
with anlysis
3.  Aual Review by Natioal
Coordinators, Dqeity CAD, CARDs
4.  Adusciunts in acorng seasm 's pro-
gram (within salocated hd,get)
5.  IYDR Sedor Hangement prepares
Progra, Paper for AC Review:
(i) inf aticn to ARC on &Ijust-
ul1ts in upcoimlr  seaso's program_
(within current bwiget), ani (iI)
ARC approval of progran and hjxget
for rext fislc year (for season
folloirng the next)
6. ARC Progran axi Budget Review
7.  resign of experiwmnts for sea.-n
after the upcourl  on  1/
8.  Proforms, Abrk Fists/&dec  into
DAR Senior Mt    ntgmimt
9.  Propoal to Tresvmry
1/  BAR fiscal year does not nform  to croP war. Therefore, the experinsts for the next FY are for tle aeasai after te ane ahut to hegdn eun the , M
plannirR in tai;dT pwe.                                                                                                                              Fl
O H
Ph



-85 -                        AnnexV
IV. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
(DOC. 1109.60O6)
Project Preparation Dociments:
Agricultural Research Strategy Plan
Project Preparation Document
Guidelines for Preparing an Agricultural
Research Master Plan
Agricultural Extension, Department of Agriculture:
Observations and Recommendations.
Project Feasibility Review (Civil Works) (2 volumes).
Working Papers:
Research-Extension Linkages and the Role of Adaptive
Research Teams
The Agricultural Research Council
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Research Master Plan
Station Administration
Contract Research
Linkages wLth International and Regional Research
Cotton Research and Cassava and Sweet Potato Research
Tea Research Foundation
Research Services
Detailed and Summary Cost and Flnancing Tables
Draft Terms of Reference
Proposed Extension Technical Assistant Involvement in Adaptive
Research Trials
Inputs to Proposed Staff Evaluation Form
Indicative Research Program
Proposed Staff Structure by Commodity or Service
Farming Systems Research: Some Problems of Theory and Issues
of Implementation
Extension Linkages (Research-Extension Linkages in the Ministry
of Agriculture, Malawi: A Discussion Paper for their
Institutionalization
The Role of the ARTs
Justification, Benefits and Risks
Minutes of the Follow-up Meetin; concerning the Composition,
Functions and Establishment of the Proposed Agricultural
Research Council
Project Meeting and Workshops, Departrent of Agricultural
Research
Operational Expenditures per Commodity or Program by Station
(1983/84)
Operational Expenditures for Services provided by DAR
1983/84 Financial Requests
Revenue Budget Allocations to the Department of Agricultural
Research, 1979/80 - 1984/85
Operational Expenditures for Overheads and Research per
Researcher by Station (1983/84)
Su_mmry of Research Stations and Trial Sites Representative
of Agroclimatic zones
Chari, In DAR Establishbent Prior to TProjlect Commencement
(Profeasional Staff Only) (Chart)
Role of the Proposed Professioual and Technical Training Unit.



IBRD 15287
_,340o                                   \    tS   1   ZAIRE   iTANZAWIA  '
ToVARESSA-AAM                                                                        . 
>; \ 2 ~~~~~~NGoLA r r",^  
ANOA   ZAMBIA 
..NAMM     WAN  ,
\    N   ,rr  !  s v 5~~~~~~~~J  SOUTH .
Z~~~~~~~~~ i1-.  'V  \ 
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. A                                     scu S.n?wARIL N
-   ASRICA e"1
'a 4S o- ,1LIESOTHO
-ars #J; Carurr44Xs(vE! S C~~~~~~ARICULTURAL RESEARCH STATION NETWlORK                                       12,-
Ss S~~~~~~. }....... !                                                  DA,R FACILITIES
t   1:                                    *    ^Co~~~~~~~~~~~Mai Rosrch Staricnz
/   ;s    ': Cll rle_7  C                  O   ~~~~Ramrch Substations tAmAfiwrManSrct
/   {577erConeAbgs=Sy-  ;                    s   ~~~~~~Experimunaio Trial Sites fkclupforw
/  _    {   St        8                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41bnt Srerar7 or 5ubstaroris and
t siliCfiJ   /  - s   \   }                  A   ~~~~~~~~Resoorch Silions or Subsatilons to be Clouwd
t  I    Itoungi   -      1A
EXISTING NON-DAR  FACItTIES
|    Major Agricultural Rareh Smatorw
h!  ;                               a k   .y  r  ,f   wF7  *   "    EwpResernnl Subtations
//   \      5                (                    -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads
C611011,                                                                     - - - g  0 /  R mTlwoys UndorsConstruction
4q > >_Mdl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inj5ve\~ irs
........ Rgonal ? Bndoe rs
Research \Iatr natio sal uoundoris C
X                       NONOA   FCMONIKEYTI
Chipete~                                   V ,?  E            R f        . J'  :i......  .. .o.  *..  RolaiUdrCntut
'  J   '  N          -  Riverc
9nza  N  g  >e/zr4/LbIvfrst) ~              Nva fobi
LILNOW                    I    M   BAY
\cIsk         , *      .- . ,     0/-# Sv
T.I.  ~           j       l              i,[Z to -M.4toa1e   esA F)v.r
N                 \_s.  I                              vn-w ol,
Masen,..w  .   *Ch. rain.-.-*A. W
Zhcte~ ~ ~~a - \~    &-r                     - p.
~~I            I        1       )                                                            .',W.e 0o.  On.._
mum -u..  S..
MILES                                   To  EA *A
SEPTEMBER 1914



