CREDIT NUMBER 1549 MAI
OFFICIAL
Development Credit Agreement
(National Agricultural Research Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   3, 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1549 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1985, between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (hereinafter caled the Borrower or Malawi)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Borrower intends to reach agreement with the United
States Agency for International Development (hereinafter called
US-AID) for a grant (hereinafter called the US-AID Grant) in an
amount of $9,200,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and US-AID;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower


﻿-2-
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 12, 1984 and
November 14, 1984 between the Borrower and the Association.
(b) "ARC" means the Borrower's Agricultural Research Coun-
cil.
(c)  "DAR" means the Department of Agricultural Research
within the Borrower's ministry responsible for agriculture.
(d) "DOA" means the Department of Agriculture within the
Borrower's ministry responsible for agriculture.
(e) "TRF" means the Tea Research Foundation.
(f) "Project Year" means any year of the execution of the
Project computed as of May 1, 1985.
(g) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) hereof.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-four million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 24,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Pro-
ject Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-3-
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in the currency of the United States
of America a Special Account at the Borrower's Reserve Bank (or
at such other place as the Association may approve), on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respec-
tive dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15


﻿-4-
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1995, and ending December 15,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
DAR and ARC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, technical, financial, agricul-
tural and research practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall, as a minimum, continue to sustain
its annual contribution to DAR's operating expenditures at the
level, in real terms, reached during its fiscal year 1984/1985.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that ARC Secretariat be
staffed, at a minimum, according to the schedule agreed upon
between the parties hereto prior to the date hereof.
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that DAR shall: (i) employ
(1) a qualified and experienced procurement officer, (2) by
November 1, 1985 a qualified and experienced deputy chief agri-
cultural research officer (administration and technical ser-
vices), and (3) one qualified and experienced station administra-
tive officer for each of the research stations at Chitedze,
Bvumbwe and Lunyangwa; and (ii) more generally, be staffed at all
times according to the schedule agreed upon between the parties
hereto prior to the date hereof.
(e) The Borrower shall, by April 30, 1987, develop and
formally approve the necessary regulations to implement, and
thereafter maintain, within DAR a scientific career stream, such
career stream to be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-5-
(f) (i) The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1988, prepare and
submit to the Association for its review and
comments an agricultural research master plan.
(ii) Promptly upon receipt of the Association's com-
ments, the Borrower shall implement such plan,
taking into account the Association's comments.
(g)  (i) The Borrower shall ensure that a Malawian counter-
part will be assigned to the consultant who will
fill the position of Financial Controller of DAR,
such counterpart to have undergone, or to undergo,
training at least at the level of an accounting
technician and to have such a grade as the Asso-
ciation and the Borrower shall consider satisfac-
tory.
(ii) By April 30, 1987, a review between the Borrower
and the Association shall take place to ascertain
whether the contract of such consultant should be
renewed and, if renewed, whether that consultant
would (A) continue to operate as the DAR Financial
Controller in a "line capacity", or (B) operate as
an advisor to that Controller from the beginning
of that renewal period, or (C) begin to operate in
such an advisory capacity at a certain point in
time during such period.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall, as and when needed, employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981; it being specified that the training consultant
to be hired to assist DAR and DOA in discharging their respective
responsibilties under the Project shall be employed by July 31,
1985.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards


﻿incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions. thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and' any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds; it being understood that such information
shall include: (A) starting in 1985 (1) a report by DAR, by
September 30 of each year, of its planning and review exercise of
the past year, (2) a review by ARC, by October 31 of each year,
of DAR's proposed program and budget for the Borrower's next
fiscal year, and (3) a submission by DAR, by November 30 of each
year, of a statement endorsing such program and budget and
showing how priorities for DAR expenditures will be set; and (B)
by March 31 every three-year, starting on March 31, 1988, an
in-depth review by ARC of the DAR research program (including a
review of the progress of adaptive research development).
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,


﻿-7-
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records (including separate accounts) adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower (including DAR and ARC) responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof; in so doing, the Borrower shall
ensure that all development expenditures shall be separated from
recurrent expenditures.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of


﻿-8-
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall adequately maintain, or
cause to be maintained adequately, the installations and facili-
ties constructed, improved, equipped or otherwise assisted under
the Project in accordance with appropriate administrative, tech-
nical, financial, agricultural and research practices, and pro-
vide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant (including the US-AID Grant) or loan


﻿-9-
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Pro-
ject shall have been suspended, cancelled or ter-
minated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) The Special Account shall have been opened, as provided
under Section 2.02 (c) hereof.
(b) The ARC Secretariat shall have been staffed, as pro-
vided under Section 3.01 (c) hereof.
(c) The Borrower shall have employed, or cause to be
employed: (i) all the consultants required to be employed pur-
suant to Section 3.02 hereof for the activities to be carried out
during the whole of Project Year 1, and whose list has been
agreed upon between the parties hereto prior to the date hereof;
and (ii) the personnel referred to in Section 3.01 (d) (i) (1)
and (3) hereof.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The date /4   JlAA&Z  Q,         25, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Cable address:                        Telex:
FINANCE                             4407 MI
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                s
B A AA- Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works              9,590,000          100%
(2) Staff relocation           102,000          100%
(3) Equipment and            3,430,000          100%
vehicles
(4) (a) Consultants and      5,890,000          100%
training (other
than (b) below)
(b) Contract Research   1,000,000          100%
and small items
of local training
(5) Operating costs          1,220,000          In Project
of new activities                          Years 1 and 2,
introduced under                            100% for all new
the Project                                activities; in
Project Year 3,
100%  for   Adap-
tive Research,
Research-Exten-
sion Workshops,
Contract Research
and Incremental
Building Mainte-
nance and Re-
pairs; in Pro-
ject Year 4, 100%
for Contract Re-
search and Incre-
mental Building
Maintenance and
Repairs


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Refunding of                600,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(7) Special Account             410,000        Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to Section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated               2,058,000
TOTAL              24,300,000
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above (a) no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, and (b) no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of Categories (1) through (5)
for the estate coffee research contract included in Part E of the
Project, unless the Borrower shall have provided the Association
with all appropriate information concerning the execution of such
contract (including all appropriate information regarding the
support to be provided by TRF and the staffing pattern envisaged
to carry out such research).
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that


﻿- 14 -
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Projnct
The Project's major objectives are to: (i) improve the
focus and quality of Malawi's smallholder-oriented agricultural
research program; (ii) strengthen critical linkages, particularly
between its research and extension programs; and (iii) improve
the efficiency and economy of DAR's on-going activities. To that
end, the Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A
Establishment of ARC.
Part B
Reduction in DAR's station network and improvement in its
physical facilities (including investments in civil works and
equipment and staff relocation).
Part C
Reorganization of DAR into multidisciplinary research teams,
and improvements of management systems (including task planning
and budgeting, improved data processing and retrieval, and insti-
tution of routine planning and evaluation exercises to improve
cost-effectiveness).
Part D
Improvement of DAR's technical capacity (including an im-
provement of career stream for DAR's scientists, an improvement
of the staff evaluation system linked to the development of work
and training programs, an improvement in the assessment of train-
ing needs and the planning of training, and an improvement in the
delivery of training and technical assistance).
Part E
Improvement of the collaboration with international agricul-
tural research centers and regional research institutes, and
introduction of a contract research program with national non-
governmental research institutions.


﻿- 16 -
Part F
Improvement of linkages between the Borrower's research and
extension services and of the relevance of extension messages
through establishment of adaptive research teams, research-exten-
sion workshops, and locally-specific extension recommendations.
Part G
Improvement in the economy and efficiency of on-going DAR's
activities, through reduction in administrative costs, overheads
and vehicle running costs, and reallocation of DAR's budgetting
proceeds to sustain the above new activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1990.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, civil works and goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Malawi may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works (other than the civil works for
the construction and renovation of the Chitedze Research Station
and the Lilongwe Adaptation Research Center, and at Lunyangwa,
Mkondezi, Baka, Meru, Nchenachena, Chitala, Lifuwu and Bembeke,
all of which shall be grouped into one contract to be awarded as
provided in paragraph A of this Schedule) may be awarded in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Association,
provided that their estimated individual cost is less than
$1,000,000 equivalent.
2.   (a) Contracts for scientific equipment, farm equipment and
machinery, vehicles, and office equipment and furniture, the
estimated individual cost of which contract is less than $150,000
and more than $25,000 equivalent, may be awarded in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Association, provided
that the total value of the contracts so awarded shall not exceed
$500,000 equivalent.
(b) Contracts for the same items, whose estimated indivi-
dual cost is less than $25,000 equivalent, may be awarded (i)
either by obtaining at least three price quotations, or      (ii)
through the offices of the Controller of Stores of the Central
Government Stores Department.


﻿- 18 -
3.   Books and publications may be procured through (i) either
direct purchase from sole suppliers, or (ii) competitive shopping
where several qualified suppliers are available.
D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 and $1,000,000 or
more, respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 2 (d) of the Appendix to the Guidelines, shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines together with the
other information specified therein, shall be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 (the Special Account Schedule) to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (5) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in the
currency of the United States of America equivalent to the amount
allocated to Category (7) which is to be withdrawn from the Cre-
dit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   (a) For purposes of withdrawal of the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on the basis of a request or re-
quests by the Borrower and evidence satisfactory to the Associa-
tion that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts of the Authorized
Allocation as the Borrower shall have requested, up to the total
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) For purposes of withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit
to resplenish the Special, Account, the Association shall, on the
basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Association at
such intervals as the Association shall specify, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. Except as the


﻿- 20 -
Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the ini-
tial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Cre-
dit Account under the respective Categories (1) through (5), and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justi-
fied by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association in respect of each payment made by the Borrower
out of the Special Account such documents and other evidence as
the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such pay-
ment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sche-
dule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made
by the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined
at any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement,
or (b) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)
through (5) for the Project, minus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) through (5) for the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,


﻿- 21 -
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198-S
FOR SECRETARY


