Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7343-ES 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Excellence and Innovation in Secondary Education (EXITO) Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 4, 2006 
Page  2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7343-ES 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated, April 4, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; the objectives of the Project, as 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, are to: (a) increase equitable opportunities for 
the Borrower's young population to complete their secondary education; and (b) improve 
the quality, relevance and competitiveness of the Borrower's secondary education; and 
(B) 
the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia, 
of the foregoing, to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
"Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, 
or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such 
taxes is subject to the Bank's policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use 
of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine 
that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, 
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred 
to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with 
such policy of the Bank." 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words "corrupt or fraudulent" with the words "corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive". 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
Page  4
-2-
(a) 
"Comit
és de Convivencia Escolar" 
means the Borrower's social 
environment school councils composed of teachers, students and family education delivery 
modalities aimed to support the collaboration between families, schools and communities; 
(b) 
"Cupos" 
means the fees for education services to be paid, per Beneficiary 
enrolled therein, by MINED to the institutions and NGOs, which shall be selected in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(c) 
"Education Grants" means a grant to be made by MINED to: (i) a Grant 
Beneficiary for the purpose of financing transport costs, uniforms and teaching materials; 
and (ii) a Secondary School for the purpose of financing the educations services to be 
provided to the Grant Beneficiary enrolled therein; 
 
(d) "EDUCO" 
means 
Programa de Educación con Participación de la 
Comunidad, 
the Borrower's program of community operated schools in the Borrower's 
rural areas; 
 
(e) 
"Eligible Categories" means: Categories (1) through (13) as set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for works, goods, 
services, training, administrative costs, Education Grants, Subproject Grants and 
Cupos, 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
"Environmental Procedures" means the procedures for environmental 
management for the carrying out of Project infrastructure works; 
 
(h) "FEPADE" 
means 
Fundación Empresarial para el Desarrollo Educativo, 
an NGO (as hereinafter defined) operating pursuant to its by-laws and the Borrower's 
Decree No. 10 granting it juridical status, both published in the Borrower's Official Gazette 
on April 28, 1987 as amended and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on 
September 3, 1996; 
 
(i) 
"FEPADE Participation Agreement" means the Agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
"Financial Monitoring Report" or "FMR" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(k) "FISDL" 
means 
Fondo de Inversión Social para el Desarrollo Local, 
the 
Borrower's social investment fund for local development, established and operating 
pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 610, dated October 31, 
1990, and published the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 262, on November 16, 1990, as 
modified by the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 826, dated September 19, 1996, and 
published the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 184 on October 2, 1996; 
 
(1) 
"FISDL Participation Agreement" means the Agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
 
(m) "FUNDASAL" 
means 
Fundción Salvadoreña de Desarrollo y Vivienda 
Mínima, 
created pursuant Executive Accord No. 768, dated June 16, 1970 and Publisher in 
the Borrower's Oficial Gazette No. 111, dated June 19, 1970; 
 
(n) 
"FUNDASAL Participation Agreement" means the Agreement referred to 
in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; 
 
Page  5
-3-
(o) 
"Grant Beneficiaries" means the students attending any of the Borrower's 
Secondary Schools who are eligible to receive an Education Grant in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(p) 
"HABITAT" means the foundation of public utility created by the 
Borrower's Executive Decree No. 9, dated February 25, 1987, published in the Borrower's 
Official Gazette No. 53, dated March 18, 1987; 
 
(q) 
"HABITAT Participation Agreement" means the Agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement; 
 
(r) 
"ICTs" means Information and Communications Technology; 
 
(s) 
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Borrower to the Bank, containing the Monitoring Indicators (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(t) "ITCA" 
means 
Instituto Tecnológico Centroamericano, 
the Borrower's 
Central American Technological Institute operating pursuant to the Borrower's Legislative 
Decree No. 13 published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on November 13, 1972; 
(u) 
"ITCA Participation Agreement" means the Agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement; 
(v) 
"Lower Secondary Schools" means the third cycle private and/or public 
schools that provide education services from grades 7 to 9 in the Borrower's territory; 
 
(w) "MEGATEC" 
means 
Modelo Educativo Gradual de Aprendizaje Técnico 
y
Tecnológico, 
the Borrower's technical-technological networks; 
 
(x) "MINED" 
means 
Ministerio de Educación, 
the Borrower's Ministry of 
Education, and its successor thereto; 
 
(y) 
"Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators to be used in monitoring and 
evaluating the implementation of the Project, as set forth in the Implementation Letter; 
 
(z) 
"NGO" or "non-governmental organization" means a non-governmental 
organization established and operating in the Borrower's territory; 
 
(aa) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(bb) "PAES" 
means 
Prueba de Aptitudes y Aprendizajes para Egresados de 
Educación Media, 
the Borrower's upper secondary student evaluation system; 
 
(cc) 
"Participating Agencies" means FEPADE, FISDL, FUNDASAL, 
HABITAT, ITCA and UCA; 
 
(dd) 
"Participation Agreements" means the FEPADE Participation Agreement, 
the FISDL Participation Agreement, the FUNDASAL Participation Agreement, the 
HABITAT Participation Agreement, the ITCA Participation Agreement and the UCA 
Participation Agreement; 
 
Page  6
-4-
(ee) 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan, dated October 
11, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 
to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
 
(ff) 
"Report-based Disbursements" means the Borrower's option for withdrawal 
of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(gg) 
"Secondary Schools" means the private and/or public schools that provide 
education services from grades 7 to 12 in the Borrower's territory; 
 
(hh) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(ii) 
"Subproject Grants" means grants to be made by MINED on a competitive 
basis to Secondary Schools selected for the purpose of financing youth development 
projects which meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and in MINED's guide 
for 
"Proyectos Juveniles Concursables" 
and 
"Escuelas Efectivas"; 
(jj) 
"TIMMS" means Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study 
(formerly known as Third International Mathematic and Science Study) which was 
developed by the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement 
(IEA) to measure trends in students' mathematics and science achievement; 
(kk) "UCA
"
means 
Universidad Centro Americana Jos
é
Simeón Cañas; 
(11) 
"UCA Participation Agreement" means the Agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (g) of this Agreement; and 
(mm) 
"Upper Secondary Schools" means the private and/or public schools that 
provide education services 
(bachillerato) 
from grades 10 to 12 in the Borrower's territory. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to eighty five million Dollars 
($85,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods, 
services, administrative costs, Education Grants, Subproject Grants and 
Cupos, 
required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
Page  7
-5-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2011 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall be payable not 
later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the 
Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
Page  8
-6-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through MINED, all with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, education, environmental, 
participatory and social standards and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, prior to 
carrying out any activity under Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower, through MINED, shall 
enter into an agreement with FEPADE (the FEPADE Participation Agreement), under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the Operational Manual 
with respect to the role and responsibilities of FEPADE in the implementation of the 
scholarship program described in Part B.2 of the Project. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the 
Borrower, through MINED, shall enter into an agreement with FISDL (the FISDL 
Participation Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to the role and responsibilities of 
FISDL in the carrying out of civil works under Parts A.3 and B.3 of the Project. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, 
the Borrower, through MINED, shall enter into an agreement with FUNDASAL (the 
FUNDASAL Participation Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to the role and 
responsibilities of FUNDASAL in the carrying out of civil works under Parts A.3 and B.3 
of the Project. 
 
(e) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) 
above, the Borrower, through MINED, shall enter into an agreement with HABITAT (the 
HABITAT Participation Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to the role and 
responsibilities of HABITAT in the carrying out of civil works under Parts A.3 and B.3 of 
the Project. 
(f) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) 
above, the Borrower, through MINED, shall enter into an agreement with ITCA (the ITCA 
Participation Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to the role and responsibilities of 
ITCA in the implementation of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project. 
 
(g) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and 
(f) above, the Borrower, through MINED, shall enter into an agreement with UCA (the 
UCA Participation Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to the role and 
responsibilities of UCA in the implementation of Parts A.1, B.1, and C.1 of the Project. 
 
(h) 
The Borrower, through MINED, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the Participation Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Participation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  9
-7-
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MINED, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank's 
approval. 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower, through MINED, shall carry out its activities under 
the Project, in accordance with the terms of a manual satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Operational Manual). Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual, or any provision thereof. In case of 
any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual shall include provisions detailing procedures and 
guidelines for the carrying out of the Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the Environmental Procedures; 
 
(ii) 
the duties and responsibilities of FEPADE, FISDL, FUNDASAL, 
HABITAT, ITCA and UCA in Project implementation; 
(iii) 
the technical, legal, administrative, financial, procurement and 
monitoring procedures for Project implementation; 
 
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through MINED, shall during the execution of the 
Project: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Monitoring Indicators), the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank, by not later than February 28 and August 31 of each 
year during the execution of the Project, a report, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, which reports shall include: (i) a detailed 
description of Project activities during the period preceding the date of said report; (ii) a 
detailed progress report, including lessons learned during Project implementation; and (iii) 
the identification of any issue that may delay Project implementation and setting out 
measures recommended to solve such issue and ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; 
 
(c) 
periodically review with the Bank the progress in the implementation of 
the Project, based on the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, to 
inter alia
:
(i) assess the results of the inter-institutional mechanisms established pursuant to the 
provisions of the Participation Agreements; and (ii) evaluate the efficacy of the Project 
implementation and coordination mechanisms at the central, regional and municipal levels, 
including the provision of grants to Beneficiaries; and 
Page  10
-8-
 
(d) 
after said reviews, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank's views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MINED, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MINED, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MINED, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower, through MINED, shall: 
Page  11
-9-
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower's progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through MINED, shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from 
the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such four month period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that any Participating Agency has failed to comply 
with any of its obligations under its respective Participation Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01. of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
Page  12
-10-
ARTICLE
 
VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of 
this Agreement have been executed on behalf of MINED and the respective Participating 
Agencies; and 
(b) 
the Operational Manual has been adopted by MINED in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The date July 3, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
Ministerio de Hacienda  
Boulevard de los Heroes #1231  
San Salvador, El Salvador, 
C.A. 
Facsimile: 
(503) 2225-7491 
 
With a copy to: 
MINED 
Alameda Juan Pablo II 
Plan Maestro, Centro de Gobierno, Edif. A-1 
San Salvador, El Salvador 
 
Facsimile: 
(503) 2281-0261 
 
Page  13
-11-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
Page  14
-12-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
By
 /s/ René A. León 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Ulrich Zachau 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-13-
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Amount of the 
 Loan 
Allocated 
% 
of 
 (Expressed 
in 
Expenditures 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods (excluding the goods 
8,100,000 
100% 
in category 2 below), 
services (excluding 
Cupos), 
training and administrative 
costs under Parts A.1 of the 
Project 
 
(2) 
Cupos 
and goods 
2,800,000 
(a) 100 % 
under Part A.1(d) 
 
of the Project  
1,500,000 
(b) 50% after (a) above  
 
has been fully disbursed  
 
and the condition in 
 
paragraph 3 (b) below has 
 
been complied with 
 
(3) Works, 
goods, 
services 
13,700,000 
100% 
 
(excluding 
Cupos), 
training and administrative 
costs (excluding the training  
and administrative costs in  
Category 4 below) under  
Part A.2 of the Project 
 
(4) 
Training and administrative 
500,000 
(a) 100% 
 
costs under Parts A.2 (d) 
and A.2 (e) of the Project 
600,000 
(b) 50% after (a) above 
has been fully disbursed; 
and the condition in 
paragraph 3 (c) below has 
been complied with 
Page  16
-14-
Amount of the 
 Loan 
Allocated 
% 
of 
 (Expressed 
in 
Expenditures 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(5) 
Works, goods, services  
8,500,000 
 
100% 
 (excluding 
Cupos
), 
 training 
and 
administrative 
 
costs under Part A.3 of 
 the 
Project 
 
(6) 
Goods, services (excluding, 
4,900,000 
 
100%  
 
Cupos), 
training and 
administrative costs 
(including those under 
Sub-Project Grants) under 
Part A.4 of the Project 
 
(7) 
Goods, services (excluding, 
2,900,000 
 
100% 
 
Cupos), 
training and 
 administrative 
costs 
under Part B.1 of the Project 
 
(8) 
Cupos
 under Part B.1 
5,000,000 
(a) 100% 
 
of the Project 
 
4,100,000 
(b) 60% after (a) has 
 
been fully disbursed; 
 
and 
 
1,200,000  
(c) 20% after (b) has  
 
been fully disbursed  
 
and the condition in  
 
paragraph 3 (d) 
 
below has been 
 
complied with 
 
(9) Education 
Grants, 
800,000 
(a) 
100% 
services (excluding 
Cupos) 
and administrative costs 
under Part B.2 of the Project 
 
1,500,000 
(b) 50% after (a) has  
 
been fully disbursed; 
 
and 
 
500,000 
(c) 30% after (b) has  
 
been fully disbursed  
 
and the condition in  
 
paragraph 3 (e) below 
 
has been complied 
 
with 
 
Page  17
-15-
Amount of the 
 Loan 
Allocated 
% 
of 
 (Expressed 
in 
Expenditures 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(10) Works, 
goods, 
services 
11,000,000 
100% 
(excluding 
Cupos) 
and 
administrative costs 
under Part B.3 of the Project 
 
(11) Services 
(excluding 
Cupos), 
7,200,000 100% 
 training 
and 
administrative 
costs under Part C.1 of the 
Project 
 
(12) 
Goods, services (excluding 
6,300,000 
100%  
 Cupos), 
training and 
administrative costs under 
Part C.2 of the Project 
 
(13) 
Goods, training, administrative 
3,900,000 
100% 
costs and services (including 
audits) under Part D of the 
Project 
 
TOTAL 85,000,000 
 ======= 
2.  
For the purposes of this Schedule the terms: 
(a) 
"services" means the reasonable expenditures incurred by MINED and/or 
the Participating Agencies for the hiring of: (i) non-consultants' services, including: 
printing or reproduction of training materials including logistic services for training events, 
distribution of goods and 
Cupos; 
and (ii) consultants' services; 
(b) 
"administrative costs" means the reasonable incremental expenditures 
incurred by MINED and/or the Participating Agencies, on account of Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including, 
inter alia: 
(i) reasonable costs of 
travel and per diem related to Project implementation and oversight; (ii) office supplies; 
(iii) maintenance of equipment; and (iv) salaries of FEPADE's, ITCA's and UCA's staff 
which would not have been incurred absent the Project; and 
(c) 
"training" means the reasonable and necessary expenditures, as approved 
by the Bank on the basis of the Procurement Plan, incurred by the Borrower with respect 
to: (i) rental and services provided in training facilities; (ii) transportation expenses of 
trainees to the place where training is provided and subsistence expenses for such trainees; 
(iii) scholarships and fellowships for training courses to be provided in the Borrower's 
territory or abroad; and (iv) study trips and internships in the Borrower's territory or 
abroad. 
3.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
Page  18
-16-
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,000,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2006; 
(b) 
payments for Category 2 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 above unless the 
Borrower has developed and disseminated basic competencies in four core subjects in 
secondary education and at least 20% of secondary teachers have been certified in basic 
competencies; 
(c) 
payments for Category 4 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 above unless the 
Borrower fully sets up one MEGATEC by 2008; 
 
(d) 
payments for Category 8 (c) of the table in paragraph 1 above unless 60% 
of students enrolled in accelerated education in 2008 have completed lower and upper 
secondary by 2010 and PAES results are comparable across accelerated and traditional 
programs; and 
 
(e) 
payments for Category 9 (c) of the table in paragraph 1 above unless at 
least 70% of Beneficiaries who shall have received the Education Grant in 2007 complete 
the upper and lower secondary cycle by 2010. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of any Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless 
and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) works costing less 
than $350,000 equivalent per contract; (b) goods and services costing less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training; (f) administrative costs; (g) Educations 
Grants; and (h) Subproject Grants; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
6. 
The Borrower, through MINED, may request withdrawals from the Loan Account 
to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of 
the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the 
Loan Account, the Borrower, through MINED, shall submit to the Bank only a statement 
with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month 
period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars in its central bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a special deposit account (the Special Account). 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  19
-17-
 
(a) 
if the Borrower, through MINED, is not making Report-based 
Disbursements, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A 
to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower, through MINED, is making Report-based Disbursements, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 
1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower, through MINED, shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.6 of this Schedule I adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for payment 
of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower, through MINED, directly from 
the Loan Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower, through MINED, shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may be. 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall 
have notified the Borrower and MINED of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and 
MINED of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower, though MINED, shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower, though MINED, has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
Page  20
-18-
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower, through MINED, shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower, through MINED, may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to 
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  21
-19-
Annex 
A
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
of $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Borrower's 
central bank, all pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the relevant Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more 
of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower and 
to MINED. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  22
-20-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.6 of this 
Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
reports. 
Page  23
-21-
SCHEDULE 
2
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase equitable opportunities for the 
Borrower's young population to complete their secondary education; and (b) improve the 
quality, relevance and competitiveness of the Borrower's secondary education. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A:
Improving the Quality, Relevance and Competitiveness of Secondary Education
1. 
 Improving learning in core subjects, through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the development of 
basic competencies in five core disciplines (Spanish, math, natural science, social science 
and English) with associated new study plans; (b) the application of basic competencies in 
Spanish, math, natural science and social science, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the training of the 
teachers and directors of the Borrower's Secondary Schools; (ii) the development and 
distribution of teaching guides and other teaching materials; and (iii) the update of study 
plans of pre-service teacher education; (c) the training of teachers, through the development 
and distribution of teaching and audio-visual materials and updated study plans for pre-
service teacher education to teach English; (d) the provision of intensive English courses 
and the provision of English textbooks; (e) the development of a program, teaching 
materials, technical assistance and monitoring and evaluation systems for lower 
performance students; and (f) the provision of equipment of learning resource centers for 
disabled students. 
2. 
Improving the quality and relevance of secondary education by supporting the 
development of three technical-technological networks (MEGATEC), through: (a) the 
establishment of a national technical and technological policy; (b) the harmonization and 
collective use of school facilities within the MEGATEC, including the expansion, 
rehabilitation and refurbishing of physical spaces and the provision of new teaching-learning 
spaces in the technical-technological networks hub; (c) the development of a competency-
based approach in technical-technological education and curricular adjustment to coordinate 
the technical-technological tracks; (d) the development of teacher professional opportunities 
within the technical-technological networks; (e) the development of a program for 
academically promising students; and (f) the design and implementation of professional 
orientation programs in the Borrower's Lower Secondary Schools located within the 
MEGATEC. 
3. 
Supporting the curriculum development, through: (a) the construction and 
rehabilitation of technological laboratories in the Borrower's Secondary Schools; (b) the 
provision of computer and audiovisual equipment; (c) the provision of educational and 
office productivity software; (d) the design, development and printing of pedagogical 
guides to support the integration between curriculum and technology; (e) the carrying out 
of training for the heads of technological laboratories and teachers on the use of 
pedagogical guides and in general on the use of ICTs for education; and (f) the provision of 
technical assistance for the design of a base line evaluation study. 
Page  24
-22-
4. 
Improving the teaching-learning environment in the Borrower's schools which are 
low performing and have high records of violence, through: (a) the establishment 
Comit
és 
de Convivencia Escolar
 
in selected Secondary Schools; (b) the provision of technical 
assistance to support the parents' and students' organizations; (c) the carrying out of training 
for teachers, students and families on conflict resolution; (d) the development of social 
environment plans; (e) the organization of extra-curricular and health-related activities; (f) 
the carrying out of school youth development projects; and (g) the implementation of a 
monitoring and evaluation system. 
Part B
:
Promoting Broad-Based Coverage in Secondary Education
1. 
Developing flexible education delivery modalities, including implementing and 
delivering accelerated, semi-distance and distance education, to benefit the Borrower's 
young population who did not complete or who are at risk of not completing secondary 
education, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) the development of curricular and pedagogical 
adaptations for the three flexible education delivery modalities, including the development 
of the web-based platform for distance education; (b) the development and distribution of 
teaching-learning materials for teachers and students for the flexible education delivery 
modalities, including audiovisual materials for distance education; (c) the training of 
teachers in the flexible education delivery modalities; (d) the implementation and 
development of an information, monitoring and evaluation system for the flexible 
education delivery modalities; (e) the carrying out of promotion activities to create 
awareness of the flexible education delivery modalities; and (f) the payment of 
Cupos 
to 
providers of the flexible education delivery modalities to be selected in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
2. 
Developing and implementing a scholarship program for the Borrower's lower 
income students, including: (a) the development of instruments for the selection of 
Beneficiaries and schools; (b) the transfer of yearly Education Grants to the Beneficiaries 
and to the selected Secondary Schools; and (c) the implementation of a monitoring and 
evaluation system to evaluate the implementation of the scholarship program. 
3. 
Expanding secondary education coverage, through: (a) the rehabilitation, 
refurbishing and equipping of classrooms in Upper Secondary Schools prioritizing the low 
performing ones; and (b) the construction, refurbishing and equipping of new classrooms in 
selected Upper Secondary Schools. 
Part C
:
Management and Evaluation for Effectiveness
1. 
Strengthening the monitoring, evaluation, certification and accreditation systems, 
through: (a) the improvement of the PASS; (b) the development of tests to certify basic 
technical and English competencies; (c) the development of basic education indicators at the 
school level; (d) the analysis and dissemination of results and their use for certification 
purposes; (e) the participation in international academic assessments including TIMSS; (f) 
the establishment of a methodology for the accreditation of institutions; (g) the 
establishment of a methodology for teacher evaluation and certification; and (h) the 
development of institutional capabilities for monitoring, evaluation and accreditation. 
Page  25
-23-
2. 
Improving school management and supervision, through: (a) the provision of 
technical assistance to school management organizations and supporting teams, including 
the provision of necessary teaching materials; (b) the development of a quality control and 
monitoring system in the Borrower's Secondary Schools, including the provision of 
technical assistance, materials and equipment; (c) the provision of technical assistance, 
refurbishment and provision of teaching materials in basic EDUCO schools, which will be 
expanded to Upper Secondary Schools; and (d) the implementation of a monitoring and 
evaluation system to monitor
 
EDUCO expansion. 
3. 
Carrying out of an impact evaluation study for Parts B.2 and C.2 of the Project. 
Part D
:
Project Administration
1. 
Strengthening MINED's technical capacity to implement the Project through the 
provision of technical assistance, training, administrative costs and equipment. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of the audits referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement. 
 
*** 
 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2011. 
Page  26
-24-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first 
Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date[, 
such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Installment Share 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
Beginning February 15, 2012 through August 15, 2021 
5% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date[, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on 
any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the 
date of withdrawal. 
 
Page  27
-25-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if 
at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall 
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a 
separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  28
-26-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement  
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
All consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I, IV and V 
of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the 
case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Services (other
than Consultants' Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. Other 
Procurement 
Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Works estimated to costs less than $5,000,000, 
and goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding in a manner 
consistent with the terms of Standard Bidding Documents satisfactory to the Bank to be 
used by the Borrower for this purpose (including education services covered by 
Cupos). 
 
2. Shopping
.
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000, and goods estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Shopping (including education services covered by 
Cupos). 
3. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required for Part A.4 of the 
Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with the 
following procedures: After a youth development subproject has been approved by 
MINED, the respective Secondary School will receive the funds from MINED to pay for 
the mix of inputs required to implement each youth development subproject. The 
Secondary Schools will follow agreed Shopping or Direct Contracting procedures detailed 
in MINED's institutional school administration directives 
("Paso a Paso") 
described in the 
Operational Manual. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and non-consultant services which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. 
Page  29
-27-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances described 
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual 
consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Page  30
-28-
 
