Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1745 
Project Name 
Excellence and Innovation in Secondary Education (EXITO)  
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Secondary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P078993 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Education, El Salvador 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
August 5, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 23, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
November 15, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
I. General Context 
 
Secondary education is key to growth and poverty alleviation.
 Following the 1992 Peace Accords, El 
Salvador enjoyed several years of rapid economic growth and poverty reduction. Considered a stellar 
example of a country implementing macroeconomic, fiscal and social policies advocated by the 
development institutions, El Salvador’s outlook was promising. Beginning in the later half of the 1990s, 
however, growth slowed. Progress made towards poverty reduction has also slowed in recent years, and 
income inequality has slightly increased. New ideas are now emerging on the causes of and solutions to 
El Salvador’s lagging economic growth and social development. Key amongst these is the principle that 
an educated labor force, with applicable skills for the competitive and technological world market, is a 
necessary component for both economic growth and for poverty alleviation, particularly in the long term. 
As detailed in key studies of the education sector in El Salvador
1
,
this principle has several implications 
for education policy. These include the need for: (1) expanding access to education, especially at the 
secondary level where there is currently still an enrollment and completion deficit; (2) ensuring that 
students from disadvantaged sectors can enroll and excel in school; (3) improving the quality of education 
at all levels; and (4) strengthening linkages between the education sector and the private sector to 
guarantee that students have the appropriate skills to succeed in the work place.   
 
II. Diagnostic of the Education Sector 
 
Enrollment and years of schooling have increased, but there is still a secondary enrollment and 
completion deficit, particularly for the poorest 40 percent of the population.  
El Salvador has taken 
important steps in improving and expanding its education system in recent years. Programs, such as 
Programa Educativo con participación de la Comunidad, 
(EDUCO), and indicators, such as primary and 
secondary net enrollment and average teacher education and accreditation, serve as models for many of 
the Central American countries and beyond.  
1
The World Bank’s Central American Strategy Paper (2005d), the El Salvador Country Economic Memorandum 
(2003b), Country Assistance Strategy (2005d), Poverty Assessment (2004a), and Ricardo Hausmann’s, 
A
National 
Development Agenda for El Salvador
 (2003). 
Page  2
2
Most of the educational progress has taken place at the primary education level.
 By 2002, primary net 
enrollment had increased to 87 percent and the gross enrollment rate had declined to 105 percent, 
indicating that more students were not only enrolling but were enrolling on time and not repeating grades. 
The Ministry of Education (MINED) reports the 2004 net enrollment rate (NER) in primary education at 
91 percent and this enrollment rate is expected to reach 95 percent by 2009. The primary completion rate 
reached 75 percent in 2002 and about 77 percent in 2004. It is expected to reach at least 85 percent by 
2009. Enrollment and completion gains have taken place within a context of increasing educational equity 
between the rich and the poor at the primary level in recent years. 
 
Despite substantial increases in secondary
2
enrollment, there is a persistent secondary enrollment deficit 
in the country.
 
Net secondary enrollment
 
reached 60 percent in net terms in 2004 according to Ministry of 
Education data. Predicting net and gross enrollment rates in the various levels using international data and 
controlling for per capita income, El Salvador is clearly outperforming countries with similar per capita 
incomes by between 10 and 15 percent at the pre-primary and primary levels, but the comparative 
advantage disappears at the secondary and tertiary levels where enrollment rates are either on par with 
similar countries or are below predicted levels (see Annex 1 for more details).  
 
Internal efficiency is low and inequity is high in secondary education.
 Improvement in access to and 
completion of primary education (at almost 80 percent in 2004) is creating pressure on the secondary 
education cycle to make room for the larger number and more diverse pool of students entering secondary 
education. Although the country’s transition rate between grade 6 and grade 7 has reached about 95 
percent, there is still: (a) persistent drop-out during the lower secondary cycle; (b) insufficient transition 
between grade 9 and 10; and (c) substantial differences in transition and drop-out between urban and rural 
areas and socio-economic strata.
3
Additionally, a very substantial fraction of students are over-age in 
secondary school (about 60 percent in each grade), producing a strong disincentive to continue in school 
because of opportunity costs which increase with age
4
(see Annex 1 for more details on internal 
efficiency). 
 
Finally, there is also evidence of low quality in secondary education in El Salvador.
 This is 
particularly true for the lower secondary education cycle, which has particularly low private rates of 
return. Also indicative of low quality, the percentage of students reaching “intermediate” achievement on 
national standardized exams in 2002 was lower in grade 9 than it was in grade 3, particularly in 
mathematics, indicating that the quality of teaching and learning may be higher at the primary level than 
at the secondary level, particularly considering that the average secondary student is more likely to 
succeed based on background factors, than the average primary school student. Achievement is slightly 
higher in grade 11 at the secondary education terminal exam (PAES) but averages “lower intermediate” 
for both academic and technical streams of secondary schools and in all subject areas. If evaluated on a 
standard curve, the majority of Salvadoran students would fail. 
 
2
In this PAD we refer to secondary education as grades 7 though 11 or 12. In the current structure of education in El 
Salvador grades 7-9 comprise the last three years of Basic Education, grades 10-11 comprise general secondary 
school, and grades 10-12 comprise technical secondary school.  
3
Secondary net enrollment was just above 30 percent in 2002 for the poorest income quintile and secondary 
completion was just above 10 percent for this same group. Indicators are generally very low for the bottom 40 
percent.  Differences are also very clear between urban and rural areas in secondary. The rural secondary GER is 
half the GER of urban areas and four times as many children from the urban areas complete secondary school in 
comparison to rural children in rural secondary schools.  
4
The evidence on El Salvador indicates a sharply increasing drop-out rate from the age of 14  (The World Bank, 
2005a, 
Central American Strategy Paper
). 
Page  3
3
Taken together these facts suggest a clear next step for the Salvadoran education system: increasing 
equitable access to and completion of a high-quality and relevant secondary education. This challenge has 
been identified by the Ministry of Education as one of four pillars of the newly launched, long-term 
education strategy, 
Plan 2021,
 as well as in multiple analyses of national development, including the 
2005 CAS which sets the objective of “11 years of schooling for the entire population”. 
 
III. Rationale for focusing on Secondary 
 
Broad-based secondary education is an urgent challenge for the country.
 Increasing access to 
secondary schooling leads to equality of opportunities and social cohesion. Recently several studies have 
posited that a population with full secondary education is also key to boosting national competitiveness 
and GDP in an increasingly technological world.
5
Low unemployment rates (about 4 percent) and high 
rates of return in upper secondary in El Salvador
6
(12 percent) suggest low supply of secondary graduates 
and high demand for them on the labor market. The demand for educated workers is likely to only 
increase with the CAFTA (Central American Free Trade Agreement) because reforms to liberalize trade 
regimes, encourage foreign direct investment, and facilitate licensing of technologies, may further unleash 
the demand for schooling.   
 
Demand for highly-skilled workers has increased in El Salvador in recent years.
 Higher education 
levels are being increasingly rewarded on the labor market, as shown by the increasing private rates of 
return to schooling in tertiary education and an increasing gap between rates of return of lower and higher 
education levels (an analysis of rates of return is provided in Annex 1).
7
This demonstrates a strong rise in 
the demand for individuals with advanced skills in the country. The trend towards greater differentiation 
between rates of return to different levels of schooling is in line with Latin American and international 
trends and emerges from the changing needs of the global economy. El Salvador’s challenge, therefore, is 
to build the skills and educational attainment of all Salvadorans. 
 
Few Salvadorans have the skills needed to support competitiveness and economic growth.
 The 
current 25 year cohort only has about eight years of schooling. The poor quality of schooling and limited 
enrollment in and completion of secondary education (and therefore also access to tertiary), prevent large 
segments of the population from acquiring the skills necessary to support innovative, technological 
development. On the 2003 secondary exit exam (PAES) only eight percent of students reached 
“advanced” markings.  
IV. Strategies to improve supply of Skills 
 
Meeting the increasing demand for a more highly educated population, means first helping students 
reach higher levels who otherwise would not or could not.
 This means not only scholarships or some 
other mechanism at higher education levels, but also getting more students, including disadvantaged ones, 
to enroll in and complete upper secondary education. It also means continuing to the higher education 
level and improving the linkages between secondary and tertiary education. Details on types of public 
interventions are provided in Annex 1. 
 
The priorities of the Government of El Salvador (GOES) support increasing educational attainment.
 The 
GOES' 2004-2009 National Education Plan and the GOES’ long term education plan, 
Plan 2021,
 outline 
5
See Fuller and Holsinger (1993), The World Bank (2003a), and The World Bank (2005c). 
6
Higher than the Latin American average, which is about 8 percent, and in line with the returns of Honduras and 
Nicaragua which both have lower supply of secondary graduates. 
7
Whereas the rate of return for older individuals who finished secondary education is twice that of individuals with 
a
primary education, for the 18-30 cohort, upper secondary education graduates have a private rate of return four 
times that of primary graduates, indicating that secondary graduates have an increasing edge on primary ones. 
Page  4
4
three policy priorities, which will help students reach higher education levels by expanding infrastructure, 
improving integration between education levels and reducing the opportunity costs of schooling. These 
policy priorities are: (i) the expansion of educational services through flexible delivery modalities; (ii) the 
expansion of basic and secondary education in rural areas through rural education networks and EDUCO 
schools; and (iii) the strengthening of technical-technological networks. The proposed EXITO project 
supports these policy priorities, which will be described in more detail below. Other key policy priorities 
which will improve educational attainment by improving the quality and relevance of delivery are 
mentioned below. 
 
Meeting increased demand for skills also requires improving the quality and relevance of secondary 
and tertiary education
.
This objective is important per-se and because it is related to educational 
attainment.
 
Possible interventions include developing and improving general/basic competencies across 
the whole system, developing  key specific skills, improving teachers’ skills to deliver the curriculum, 
improving the teaching-learning environment (by improving, for instance, the availability and quality of 
teaching resources), and finding innovative ways of improving linkages between education levels, 
training, and the labor market. 
 
The priorities of the GOES also support improving the quality and relevance of secondary education.
 The 
GOES' 2004-2009 National Education Plan and the GOES’ long term education plan 
Plan 2021
 outline 
several policy priorities which will help students upgrade their skills. These policy priorities include: (i) 
developing a competency-based curriculum; (ii) advancing student's command of the English language, 
using technologies and promoting connectivity within the education system; (iii) strengthening 
monitoring, evaluation and accreditation systems; (iv) strengthening management and autonomy; and (v) 
strengthening technical-technological networks. Once again, the proposed project supports these policy 
priorities, which will be analyzed in more detail below. 
 
Only a comprehensive policy package will successfully overcome the range of constraints facing 
secondary enrollment.
 
The barriers that prevent more youth from enrolling in secondary education are 
multiple, and they will need to be addressed using multiple interventions. What is ultimately needed is a 
combination of strategies, including: (i) increased public financing; (ii) quality and relevance-enhancing 
measures, including improving the relevance of technical education; (iii) supply-side measures such as the 
development of flexible delivery strategies and/or the expansion of physical spaces; and (v) demand-side 
interventions. Under the proposed project, the GOES and the Bank seek to apply a comprehensive 
combination of strategies to meet the challenges of secondary education in El Salvador. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project development objective is to increase equitable opportunities for young people to complete 
their secondary education with high quality general and/or relevant specialized competencies. As such, 
appropriate key indicators include: (i) increase secondary school (grades 7-11/12) enrollment and 
completion particularly for the most disadvantaged socio-economic groups; (ii) increase the percentage of 
secondary students scoring at the intermediate or advanced level on the grade 9 and PAES  exams;  and 
(iii) increase the proportion of technical education graduates who continue into tertiary. 
 
By increasing equitable access to and completion of a high-quality and relevant secondary education, the 
project is ultimately aiming at improving the productivity, international competitiveness and social 
development of the country. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Page  5
5
To meet the new and urgent challenges facing secondary education, the GOES and the Bank are 
advancing a project focused on secondary education
,
rather than moving to phase two of the previous 
Education Reform Project which is an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) that focused heavily on primary 
education. The proposed project would deepen the Bank's support of secondary education, focusing on 
grades 7 though the last grade of secondary. It would also support greater donor harmonization, less 
duplication of efforts, and concentrate the Bank's efforts on the area of secondary education where we 
have a greater value-added.  
 
The GOES has requested technical assistance from the World Bank to focus specifically on the 
challenges in secondary education.
 The GOES' 2004-2009 National Education Plan and the 
Plan 2021
 
outline key policy priorities for the improvement and expansion of secondary education. However, El 
Salvador needs the assistance of the Bank to operationalize these plans and reach the same successful 
framework for educational improvement that has been established in primary education. The proposed 
project is squarely in line with the GOES education sector plans, which it would help implement. 
 
The new project will allow the GOES to focus its borrowing in the area where it most needs 
additional financing.
 The GOES has shown strong commitment to education advancement. Its long term 
education plan 
Plan 2021
 commits to even faster growth in the steady gains in education investment over 
the last decade. However, El Salvador faces severe budgetary constraints. Per capita GNI in 2003 was just 
over US$2000 and national GDP in 2000 was US$13.3 billion. While this shows marked growth from a 
GDP of US$3.6 billion in 1990, El Salvador still lacks sufficient funds to support educational reforms to 
expand access to secondary to all primary graduates, improve the relevancy of the curricula and teaching 
methods to address twenty-first century social and economic needs, and support national development and 
competitiveness. A recent simulation analysis suggests that El Salvador will need to spend between 0.9 
and 1 percent more of its GDP by 2015 on secondary education to achieve universal coverage in lower 
secondary (that is, also including full transition of the poor) and wide coverage in upper secondary (gross 
enrollment rate of 70 percent)
8
.
The new project will help the GOES reach these financing objectives. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project would consist of three, closely inter-related components. The first component focuses on 
improving the quality and relevance of secondary education; the second on improving equitable coverage; 
and 
the third on improving the effectiveness of all the project’s interventions by enhancing the 
management and evaluation of secondary education delivery. 
 
COMPONENT I:   Quality, Relevance and Competitiveness of Secondary Education (US$ 43.5 
million) 
 
This component would promote high-quality relevant secondary education by supporting measures to 
improve learning in core subjects, teaching-learning environments, and the relevance of technical 
education through stronger linkages with tertiary education and the private sector. Improved learning and 
relevance will not only contribute to upgrading the country’s skills, but also contribute to increasing 
educational attainment and coverage, and laying the basis for improving the productivity, growth and 
competitiveness prospects of El Salvador.  
 
I.A Learning in Core Subjects   
 
8
See The World Bank (2004b). 
Page  6
6
This sub-component would improve quality and relevance of secondary education by improving 
learning in five key areas (Spanish, math, science, social science, and English).
 Ensuring high 
learning levels in core subjects is the basis for improving the productivity and competitiveness prospects 
of the country.  
Student learning will be improved by developing basic competencies and targeting low achievers.  
Competencies will be developed by grade and be the same across modalities (general, technical, flexible) 
to ensure equivalent learning levels.   
 
The sub-component contemplates the following activities: (i) development of general/basic and common 
competencies in five core disciplines, for each grade and across modalities; (ii) application of basic 
competencies through teacher training, development and distribution of teaching guides, and updating of 
study plans for pre-service teacher education; (iii) teacher training and development and distribution of 
educational and audio-visual materials for the teaching of the English language in secondary institutes; 
(iv) contracting of external agencies (purchase of educational places) to provide intensive courses in 
English; and (v) academic reinforcement to academically behind and disabled students (program 
development, teachers trained, learning resource centers, teaching materials, monitoring and evaluation 
system).  
 
I.B Relevance of Technical Education   
 
This sub-component would improve the relevance of technical secondary education by ensuring higher 
levels of integration between secondary technical education and tertiary technological education. This 
reform would be supported by the development of three regionally-based, technical-technological 
networks (also called MEGATEC, or 
Modelo Educativo Gradual de Aprendizaje Técnico y Tecnológic
o). 
These networks would include technical institutes (traditional and APREMAT
9
), technological institutes 
and, when possible, universities offering technical careers, such as engineering, integrated from both the 
curricular and physical resources perspective.  Key to the implementation of these networks will be a 
competency-based reform, a rationalization of the supply of technical tracks, teacher professional 
development, and the targeted expansion and equipping of the network hubs for the benefit of the whole 
network.   
 
Setting-up the three technical-technological networks will include several activities that the project will 
support: (i) the harmonization and collective use of school facilities within the network, which will 
include the expansion and rehabilitation of physical spaces and the provision of new teaching-learning 
spaces when needed in the network hub; (ii) the development of a competency-based approach in 
technical/technological education; (iii) the development of  teacher professional opportunities within the 
network; (iv) the development of a scholarship scheme for technical students within the network (possibly 
within the proposed broader, demand-side scheme); (v) the design and implementation of professional 
orientation programs in lower secondary schools located within the regional networks; (vi) the 
rationalization of the supply of  technical tracks; (vii) the implementation of a monitoring system of the 
demand and supply of technical-technological skills in the country; and (viii) the implementation of 
agreements with INSAFORP and the private sector.  
 
I.C Technology for Learning  
 
This sub-component will improve the quality and relevance of secondary education by improving the 
population's comfort with and mastery of information technology (computers and connectivity).  
 
9
APREMAT institutes are institutes which have been greatly strengthened, in terms infrastructure, pedagogical 
development and equipment, under a recent IDB project. 
Page  7
7
The sub-component supports the following activities: (i) development of technological labs; (ii) purchase 
of technological equipment for the labs; (iii) development of two maintenance centers for the labs (or 
other more cost-effective option); (iv) design and implementation of an effective use policy for the labs; 
and (v) strengthening of institutional servers and purchase of the necessary equipment to enhance 
connectivity. 
 
I.D Schools’ Social Environment for Learning
 (
Convivencia Escolar
)
This sub-component will improve the quality and relevance of secondary education by improving the 
teaching-learning environment in poor marginalized schools through an improvement of the social 
environment. El Salvador has unique challenges present in marginalized, urban secondary schools where 
poverty, violence, poor infrastructure and services, and insecurity make it difficult for students to learn, 
teachers to teach, and schools to function at their highest capacity. A recent analysis on the determinants 
of the PAES results
10
 confirms that classroom environment is strongly related to test scores. Poor learning 
and educational attainment in urban marginal schools contribute to the overall lower performance of the 
poor, providing strong justification for a public intervention in these low quality schools. 
 
The sub-component will contemplate the following activities: (i) training of directors, teachers and 
students in prevention of at-risk behavior; (ii) school grants and related support for education projects; 
(iii) technical assistance for the constitution of student brigades; and (iv) monitoring and evaluation of the 
activities implemented and results obtained.  
 
COMPONENT II:  
Broad-Based Coverage (US$36 million) 
 
This component would promote broad-based coverage in secondary education by supporting three key 
strategies: (a) the development of flexible delivery models; (b) the development of a new demand-side 
subsidy scheme; and (c) the expansion and rehabilitation of public infrastructure. By being mostly 
targeted to disadvantaged populations (poorest 40 percent, rural groups, marginal-urban areas), the 
combination of these three strategies has the potential of improving secondary enrollment in El Salvador 
in an equitable manner, together with the quality-enhancing measures developed in Component I. 
 
II.A Flexible Delivery Models
 
Flexible modalities are a promising means of providing relevant, quality schooling to disadvantaged 
groups.
 
This subcomponent seeks to expand secondary education coverage in a broad-based way by 
developing flexible delivery modalities, including accelerated, semi-distance and distance education 
modalities, for youth who did not complete, or are at risk of not completing, secondary education. 
Flexible delivery models have proven to be a promising means of providing relevant, quality schooling to 
rural, lower/lower-middle income, and over-age students.  
 
The project would support the following activities under this sub-component: (i) the development of 
curricular adaptations for all three modalities; (ii) the development and distribution of teaching-learning 
materials for teachers and students for all three modalities, including audiovisual materials for distance 
education; (iii) teacher training in two of the three modalities; (iv) the implementation and development 
of an information, monitoring and evaluation system for the three programs; and (v) the contracting 
(through educational placing services, or purchase of  education places) and training of implementation 
agencies for the three programs.  
 
II.B Demand-Side Scheme 
10
 El Salvador, MINED (2001). 
Page  8
8
This sub-component aims at expanding secondary education coverage by developing a demand-side 
scheme for lower-income students. El Salvador already has experience with demand-side interventions 
and the present scheme would build on this experience.  The project will provide yearly grants to support 
secondary completion for youth from the bottom two income quintiles. Students would need to be in 
school and some minimum academic performance criteria would be applied.  Students would have the 
choice between public and private schools, which have been previously selected according to strict 
quality criteria and space availability. Grants would be available starting in grades 7 and 10 and would 
cover the main private direct costs.  
 
The sub-component will contemplate the following activities: (i) the contracting of an institution which 
manages the program and sets-up the mixed public-private fund; (ii) the selection of students and schools, 
according to pre-established criteria; (iii) the purchase of education places in the selected private schools 
and the transfer of grants in the selected public schools; and (iv) the implementation of a monitoring and 
evaluation system to monitor the institution which manages the program, as well as participating students 
and schools, including rigorous impact evaluation of the program.    
 
II.C Expansion of Infrastructure
 
The project will expand and rehabilitate infrastructure in a targeted way. The aim is to increase secondary 
education coverage by expanding and improving the infrastructure and equipping formal, public general 
and technical secondary schools.  The sub-component will therefore support: (i) the rehabilitation, 
refurbishing and equipping of existing classrooms in upper secondary schools; and (ii) the construction, 
refurbishing and equipping of new classrooms in upper secondary schools, most of them located in urban 
and urban-marginal areas with high projected population growth.  
 
COMPONENT III: 
Management and Evaluation for Effectiveness (US$ 13.6 millions) 
 
This component will enhance the effectiveness of all the project’s interventions by developing solid 
evaluation, certification and accreditation systems, and by improving school management and 
decentralization. These interventions will strengthen the capacity of the MINED and of several external 
education agencies.   
 
III. A Evaluation and Accreditation for Effectiveness 
 
This sub-component will maximize the effectiveness of the interventions of the project by developing 
solid monitoring, evaluation, certification and accreditation systems. Most of the interventions of the 
project require a strong evaluation and monitoring system to ensure that they achieve their objectives. 
Additionally, some of them rely on strong accreditation processes to be carried-out effectively; while 
others rely on teacher quality, which is closely related to teacher performance evaluation and certification. 
 
Monitoring and evaluation:
 The project will strengthen the country’s monitoring and evaluation system 
by improving the assessment of academic skills and developing a new institutional set-up for monitoring 
and evaluation to ensure better coordination, continuity of monitoring and dissemination of results. 
 
Accreditation of institutions:
 The project will help the country set up an effective policy and institutional 
framework for accreditation of institutions. 
 
Teacher evaluation and certification:
 The project will support more continuous teacher performance 
evaluation by helping define clear performance profiles and standards on which to base solid performance 
evaluation, which would make it possible to certify in-service training and reward actual classroom 
Page  9
9
performance. It will also support an adequate institutional framework for certification, which may involve 
the creation of a new external agency, specialized in both accreditation and certification.  
 
In sum, this sub-component will contemplate several activities, including: (i) the improvement of the 
student evaluation methodology and extension of testing; (ii) the analysis and dissemination of results and 
its use for certification purposes; (iii) the establishment of a policy for the accreditation of institutions, 
based on clear quality criteria; (iv) the establishment of a policy for teacher evaluation and certification;  
and (v) the development of a strengthened  institutional set-up for monitoring, evaluation and 
accreditation, with internal and external components.  
 
III. B Management and Decentralization for Effectiveness 
 
This sub-
component will enhance the effectiveness of the project’s interventions by improving school 
management and decentralization.  To this purpose, the project will support several interventions:  (i) the 
development of professional opportunities for directors; (ii) the provision of technical assistance to school 
councils in institutional and participatory planning; (iii) the financing of school pedagogical projects; (iv) 
the development of a quality control and monitoring system at the school and MINED level; (v) the 
expansion of EDUCO to upper secondary through traditional or flexible modalities; and (vi) the 
implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system to monitor EDUCO expansion, including rigorous 
impact evaluation of the program. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 12 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
85 
 Total 
97 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Implementation Arrangements:
 The Implementation arrangements for the EXITO Project have been 
developed with a focus on three key principles: (a) consolidated MINED institutionalized project 
implementation; (b) promotion of strategic alliances for increased capacity, and (c) results-based 
management (including emphasis on targeting, monitoring and evaluation). The project implementation 
period is five years.   
 
a. 
Consolidated Institutionalized Project Implementation:
 
MINED has continuously managed 
IBRD and IDB-financed projects over the last 15 years (with no need for a Project Coordination Unit - 
PCU).  During this period, a key goal was to gradually institutionalize the implementation of externally 
financed projects within its line departments (rather than with a parallel PCU).  MINED seeks to 
consolidate its experience in institutionalized project management, and has defined specific management 
responsibilities for the EXITO project within its line departments, divisions, and chief units (“
jefaturas
”).  
 
With Bank support, the MINED is preparing a series of implementation analyses based on the scope of 
the EXITO Project.  At least two products will assist MINED to define an on-going institutional 
strengthening and institutionalized implementation consolidation plan: an “Institutional Analysis”, and an 
“Institutional Capacity Feasibility Study”.  
 
b.  
Promotion of Strategic Alliances: 
as part of the “improved capacity’ strategy, MINED seeks to 
institutionalize its to-date successful work with other education institutional actors: Education 
Foundations, Universities, NGOs, and other education specialized institutions.   For example, in training 
and development, MINED has worked with FEPADE (
Fundacion Empresarial para el Desarrollo 
Page  10
10
Educativo
); in research and analytical work, with FUSADES (
Fundacion para el Desarrollo Economico y 
Social
); in standardized testing and other technical and pedagogical support with UCA (
Universidad 
Centroamerica Jose Simeon Cañas
); and in infrastructure construction, rehabilitation and expansion with 
FISDL, HABITAT, FUNDASAL and others.  
 
c. Results-based 
Management: 
Project implementation -- diagnosis, strategic planning, 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation -- includes specific guidelines, procedures, instruments and 
resources to guarantee the quality of targeting, accreditation, monitoring and evaluation, as well as 
participation of stakeholders across the education sector (central, regional, community and school).  
 
Financial Management Arrangements: 
Project administration will be undertaken by MINED under its 
established institutional structure. Accordingly, MINED’s Institutional Financial Unit (UFI) will be 
directly in charge of financial management (FM) tasks. These will basically include: (i) budget 
formulation and monitoring; (ii) cash flow management (including processing loan withdrawal 
applications); (iii) maintenance of accounting records, (iv) preparation of in-year and year-end financial 
reports, (v) administration of underlying information systems, and (vi) arranging for execution of external 
audits.  
 
Procurement Arrangements:
 
The preliminary assessment reveals that MINED has satisfactory 
institutional capacity to carry out project contracting activities.  Based on the present structure, 
organization and working arrangements of the institutional 
Unidad de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones
 
(UACI), and the satisfactory outcome of its performance during ongoing Bank projects, the assessment 
confirmed that there are no major deficiencies that should be redressed in the organization and staffing of 
the procurement function in MINED.  Regarding co-executing agencies proposed by MINED to assist it 
in executing the project, specific action plans would be proposed (once their participation and specific 
roles are confirmed during appraisal).  UACI would be expected to move towards strengthening its 
competencies in supervision of the Annual Procurement Plans (PACs) that executing agencies would be 
conducting, and in ex-post review activities of procurement conducted by the latter. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The long-term 
Plan 2021
 provides an effective framework for the institutional and financial sustainability 
of the new project. First, the development objective of the new project fits fully within the vision of the 
education sector development supported by the Plan, ensuring strong government ownership and support 
of the project. Second, the Plan projects an increasing share of education expenditure in terms of GDP up 
to 2009 (from 2.86% of GDP to 4.17% of GDP), which confirms a strong commitment to the education 
sector and should provide a positive financial environment for the project.  
 
Strategic alliances with external specialized agencies, such as FEPADE and UCA, will also support 
sustainability by maintaining the support of local constituencies beyond the 5-year governmental period.    
 
The project design itself should also enhance its sustainability. In particular, the decreasing disbursement 
percentage for selected categories will help ensure gradually increasing government financing of key 
long-term programs or activities, such as English, the maintenance of technological labs, the provision of 
flexible modalities and grants, and the application of external assessments.  By the end of the project, 
these programs or activities will be largely financed on national funds. In addition, some activities, such 
as the technical-technological networks and the demand-side scheme, make explicit reference to private 
sector contributions to support financial sustainability.   
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Page  11
11
The new project incorporates several lessons from previous projects and interventions in El Salvador in 
its overall design and in the design of the specific components and sub-components. 
 
Political commitment and stakeholders’ participation
:
When political commitment has been high 
implementation has been greatly facilitated (as was the case for the Basic Education Project which closed 
in 2001); when it has been low, the result was slow implementation (as in 2003/2004 for the existing 
education projects). The current MOE team is highly committed and the new project is at the core of the 
long term country education plan (
Plan 2021
), indicating strong ownership. Additionally, the 
Plan 2021
 
was prepared in a very participatory way involving key stakeholders in the discussion of the country 
priority issues. This will facilitate implementation over the life of the project. 
 
Institutional strengthening to support a results focus: 
other projects in Latin America have shown that 
adequate institutional capacity is key in determining the success of a project. Under the proposed project a 
lot of emphasis is placed on strengthening monitoring, evaluation and accreditation systems to promote 
results-based management and high quality standards at all levels (MOE, implementing agencies, and 
schools). Focus on results is also supported through a strong set of outcome indicators within the 
Plan 
2021
 and the new project.  
 
Management and decentralization
:
effective service delivery has shown to be key to the success of 
several education projects in El Salvador and elsewhere. There have been innovative experiences of 
school-based management (SBM) with community participation in all Central American countries with 
positive results on community and school empowerment, and, through strengthened accountability, 
teacher performance and educational achievement. Primary and basic EDUCO schools in El Salvador are 
probably the most successful example of SBM in Central America. Although widely known for this 
model, El Salvador has also experienced with SBM through partial school autonomy in traditional 
schools. The new project will build on these experiences.  
 
Management and public-private partnerships
:
the experience in secondary education reforms has shown 
that the private sector has an important role to play in the delivery of secondary education. In El Salvador, 
about 20 percent of the enrollment is provided by private sector schools, with this share increasing to 
more than 30 percent in upper secondary. While public financing will need to increase to provide for 
further secondary expansion, previous interventions have not sufficiently exploited the existing capacity 
of private schools for service provision. The proposed project will support higher involvement of private 
schools in the delivery of secondary education by supporting a demand-side scheme which finances the 
enrollment of low-income students in high-quality public and private schools. In contrast, there is more 
tradition in the country of involving nongovernmental agencies in the management of education services. 
This is, for instance, the case of the successful cooperation with FEPADE and the UCA in the existing 
secondary education project.  The project will build on this experience by consolidating its partnership 
with FEPADE, FEPADE-ITCA and UCA, while also contracting-out the delivery of flexible education 
modalities and extracurricular courses to accredited nongovernmental implementing agencies.  
 
Demand-side subsidies for low-income students
:
demand-side interventions can play an important role in 
secondary education delivery where direct and opportunity costs of schooling are high. The scholarship 
program supported by the current secondary education project has been considered successful, with a high 
number of secondary graduates. However, a couple of weaknesses were the lack of financial sustainability 
and the lack of rigorous impact evaluation of the program. The new project will expand and improve this 
program by involving private sector schools (see above), establishing a mixed public-private fund to 
ensure financial sustainability and incorporating the impact evaluation of the program upfront in its 
design, implementation and outcome indicators. Particular attention will also be given to the selection of 
students, trying to improve on the selection criteria established under the existing secondary project.  
 
Page  12
12
Flexible modalities for secondary education
:
flexible delivery models have proven to be a promising 
means of providing relevant, quality schooling to rural, lower/lower-middle income, and over-age 
students. El Salvador has implemented accelerated education programs in primary and semi-distance 
education programs in secondary, which are currently being evaluated, and which, apparently, have had 
promising results. Building on these programs and the lessons of their evaluations, the new project will 
develop and implement three flexible modalities for specific target groups, paying special attention to 
teaching methodologies and quality levels. 
 
Technical education
:
lessons from successful experiences suggest that technical education needs to 
deliver strong general skills, while also delivering specific skills relevant to labor market needs, and 
provide a variety of options, such as integrating the labor market or continuing into tertiary education 
(immediately or after having acquired work experience). The proposed project supports a competency 
based demand-driven technical education, where students have the option of integrating the labor market 
or continuing into regionally based technological tertiary education, with a set of core specific skills 
requested by the labor market and/or tertiary institutions. To some extent, the project would lay the basis 
for a life-long learning framework, by articulating the different levels of technical education and, in turn, 
integrating them with professional training and the private sector.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
El Salvador-
 Comisión Presidencial. 2004. Educar para el pais que queremos. 
 
Edwards, J. 2005. Propuesta para un Instrumento de Subsidio a la Demanda (
mimeo
)
Guerra, N. and Barrillos, A.  2005. Evaluación Social.  
 
ITCA. 2004. Oportunidades y desafios de la educación tecnológica en El Salvador. 
 
ITCA. 2005. MEGA TEC: Propuesta de concepto y modelo curricular. 
 
MINED. 2001. PAES 2000: Factores asociados al rendimiento. 
 
MINED. 2004. Diagnostico Integrado de El Salvador.  
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  13
13
MINED. 2005.  Formulario Ambiental para Proyectos de Infraestructura Educativa.  
 
MINED. 2005.  Contrato Modelo para Proyectos de Infraestructura Educativa. 
 
MINED. 2005.  Especificaciones Técnicas para Proyectos de Infraestructura Educativa.  
 
MINED 2005. Plan de Educacion 2021. 
 
The World Bank. 2003a. 
Closing the gap in education and technology
.
The World Bank. 2003b. 
El Salvador 
–
Country Economic Memorandum: Growing in the new 
millennium. 
 
The World Bank. 2004a 
El Salvador Poverty Assessment: Strengthening Social Policy
 
The World Bank. 2004b. El Salvador 
–
Education Strategy Note (
unpublished document
). 
 
The World Bank. 2005a. 
Central America Education Strategy Paper: An agenda for action.
 
The World Bank. 2005b. 
Central America Education Strategy Paper: Volume II.
 
The World Bank. 2005c. 
Expanding opportunities and building competencies for young people: A new 
agenda for Secondary Education.
 
The World Bank. 2005d  El Salvador- Country Assistance Strategy. 
 
The World Bank. 2005e. El Salvador: Investment climate assessment.  
 
The World Bank. 2005f. Meeting the challenges of secondary education in Latin America and East Asia 
(
mimeo
).  
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact:  
Emanuela Di Gropello 
Title:  
 
Human Development Economist 
Tel:  
 
(202) 458-9448 
Fax:  
 
(202) 522-1202 
Email:   
edigropello@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
