Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/06/2007 
Report No.:  AC1719
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  El Salvador 
Project ID:  P078993 
Project Name:  Excellence and Innovation in Secondary Education (EXITO) 
Task Team Leader:  Joel E. Reyes 
Estimated Appraisal Date: August 24, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: November 29, 2005 
Managing Unit:  LCSHE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Secondary education (70%);Central government administration (20%);Tertiary 
education (5%);Other social services (5%) 
Theme:  Education for the knowledge economy (P);Education for all (S);Other social 
development (S);Improving labor markets (S);Decentralization (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
85.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
12.00
12.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project objective is to "increase equitable opportunities for young people to complete 
their secondary education with high quality general and/or relevant specialized 
competencies".  As such, appropriate key indicators include:  (i) increase secondary 
school (grades 7-11/12) enrollment and completion particularly for the most 
disadvantaged socio-economic groups; (ii) increase the percentage of secondary students 
scoring at the intermediate or advanced level on the grade 9 and PAES exams; and (iii) 
increase the proportion of technical education graduates who continue into tertiary.   
 
3. Project Description 
The GOES has identified an investment loan, with strong focus on results, as the most 
suitable lending instrument for this new project.  An investment loan would allow the 
GOES to capitalize on the technical assistance provided by the Bank in facing this urgent 
and growing challenge of broad-based quality secondary education in El Salvador.  
 
The project would consist of three components, closely inter-related.  The first 
component is focused on improving the quality and relevance of secondary education; the 
second one is focused on improving equitable coverage; and the third one is focused on 
Page  2
improving the effectiveness of all project's interventions by improving the management 
and evaluation of secondary education delivery.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be country-wide, with focus on rural and urban-marginal areas. Any 
rehabilitation or construction work, however, will take place only in urban and urban 
marginal areas at already existing school sites.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Ann Jeannette Glauber (LCSEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project will support three types of school rehabilitation: replacement of existing 
infrastructure, rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, and expansion of existing 
infrastructure.  Due to the nature of construction included in the project, it has been rated 
as Category "B".  In accordance with OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), the client has 
undertaken an Environmental Assessment (EA), and will include environmental 
procedures and guidelines for any construction activities in the operational manual. These 
procedures include appropriate screening and mitigation measures for negative impacts 
and recommendations for enhancement measures for positive impacts.  
 
There are no resettlement issues anticipated, and the environmental screening 
procedures would flag any potential resettlement issue.  If the need for resettlement were 
identified, project funds would not be elegible to support that sub-project.  With regard to 
cultural property, while there are no expectations that the project would affect Cultural 
Property, as defined by OPN 11.03, during rehabilitation activities, the EMF includes 
"chance find" provisions, in the unlikely event that any such property is encountered.   
 
Page  3
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
There are no identified potential indirect or long-term impacts due to the project 
activities.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
So as to avoid resettlement, the screening checklist flags any potential resettlement 
issues.  In the case that the need for resettlement is identified during subproject screening, 
that subproject would be ineligible for project funding and an alternative educational 
facility for rehabilitation will be chosen.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
In compliance with Bank practice and following the LAC Environmental Guidelines for 
Education Projects, the Government has prepared an Environmental Management 
Framework (EMF) as the project's stand alone Environmental Assessment (EA) report.  
 
The EMF includes a description of environmental procedures to be followed, an 
environmental screening checklist, a manual for technical specifications for construction, 
a
model contract including environmental rules for contractors, institutional arrangements 
and environmental guidelines for construction activities.  The Bank has evaluated 
borrower capacity to undertake the measures included in the EMF and believes that it is 
adequate to ensure compliance.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders are:  (i) school faculty, students, and parents, (ii) the Ministry of 
Education, (iii) the surrounding school community, and (iv) contractors.  
 
The screening of each potential subproject site will be the responsibility of MINED.  
Screening will be conducted by the contractor responsible for designing the 
rehabilitation/ construction using the checklist, the results of whilch will be reviewed by 
MINED. MINED will ensure that the subproject design reflects the results of the 
screening exercise in addition to consultation with the school community members.  Any 
needed mitigation measures will be incorporated in the design proposal.  The 
incorporation of these aspects into the project design is the responsibility of MINED, as 
is construction monitoring.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
06/01/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
08/22/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
08/18/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
 
 
Page  4
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Disclosure of documents will take place before appraisal which is planned for August 24, 
2005.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Emanuela Di Gropello 
 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Ann Jeannette Glauber 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Eduardo Velez Bustillo 
 
Comments:   
