                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: NCO0000618




                 NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                                  (IBRD-73430)




                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$85 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

                                     FOR AN

   EXCELLENCE AND INNOVATION IN SECONDARY EDUCATION (EXITO)
                                    PROJECT




                                 December 4, 2007




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           EL SALVADOR CURRENCY UNIT = US$ 1.00

                             FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 ­ December 31

                ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

CAFTA         Central American Free Trade Agreement
EDUCO         Community-Managed Education Program in Rural Areas (Programa
              Educativo con Participación de la Comunidad)
FEPADE        Business Foundation for the Educational Development (Fundaci6n
              Empresarial para el Desarrollo Educativo)
FISDL         Social Investment Fund and Local Development
FUNDASAL      Salvadoran Foundation of Development and Low-Income Housing
              (Fundación Salvadoreña de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOES          Government of El Salvador
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB           Inter American Development Bank
MEGATEC       Gradual Educational Model of Technical and Technologic Leaming
              (Modelo Educativo Gradual de Aprendizaje Técnico y Tecnológico
MINED         Ministry of Education
NER           Net Enrollment Rate
NGO           Non-Govemmental Organization
PAC           Procurement Plan
PAES          Test of Skills and Leaming for Secondary Education Graduation
              (Prueba de Aptitudes y Aprendizajes para Egresados de Educación
              Media)
PHRD          Special Fund for Policy and Human Resources Development
U A C I       Procurement and Institutional Contracting Unit (Unidad de
              Adquisiciones y Contrataciones Institucional)




                       Vice President: Pamela Cox
                    Country Director:  Jane Armitage
                       Sector Director Evangeline Javier
                      Sector Manager:  Eduardo Velez Bustillo
                       Sector Leader:  Laura Rawlings
           Task Team and NCO Leader:   Joel E. Reyes

                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs




 1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design............................................. iv
 2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation .......................................... 6
 3. Assessment of Bank Performance ............................................................................ 13
 4. Assessment of Borrower Performance...................................................................... 14
 5. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 15
 Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 17
 Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 18
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Excellence and
                                                                    Innovation in
Country:              El Salvador            Project Name:
                                                                    Secondary Education
                                                                    (EXITO)
Project ID:           P078993                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-73430
NCO Date:             12/20/2007
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF EL
Lending Instrument:   SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                    SALVADOR
Original Total
                      USD 85.0M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 0.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process            Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept Review:      03/07/2005     Effectiveness:       05/29/2007
Appraisal:           08/24/2005     Closing:             12/31/2011         12/31/2011
Approval:            11/29/2005


C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                    Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Moderately Satisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                            20
Other social services                                          5
Secondary education                                          70
Tertiary education                                             5




                                             i

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                        Secondary
Education for all                                       Secondary
Education for the knowledge economy                      Primary
Improving labor markets                                 Secondary
Other social development                                Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                    At NCO                     At Approval
Vice President:         Pamela Cox                    Pamela Cox
Country Director:       Makhtar Diop                  Jane Armitage
Sector Manager:         Eduardo Velez Bustillo        Eduardo Velez Bustillo
Project Team Leader:    Joel E. Reyes                 Eduardo Velez Bustillo
NCO Team Leader:        Joel E. Reyes
NCO Primary Author:     Joel E. Reyes



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                        Actual
No.     Date ISR
        Archived               DO                   IP              Disbursements
                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     12/22/2005         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     09/20/2006        Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                0.00
  3     03/11/2007        Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                0.00




                                            ii

1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design (drawing from PAD, briefly
describe the country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance, development
objectives, components, costs and funding, implementation arrangements, risk analysis, and
quality at entry):

Country Background. Following the 1992 Peace Accords, El Salvador enjoyed several years
of rapid economic growth and poverty reduction, which slowed down in the later half of the
1990s. In the XXI century to provide a new impulse to economic growth, the development
strategies of El Salvador focused on improving the country's educated labor force, with
applicable skills for the competitive and technological world market. During the present decade,
the Government began important investments in basic and secondary education, supported by
international development agencies, including the World Bank. More recently, the country
focused on developing an appropriate program for: 1) expanding access to education, especially
at the secondary level where there is currently still an enrollment and completion deficit; (2)
ensuring that students from disadvantaged sectors can enroll and excel in school; (3) improving
the quality of education at all levels; and (4) strengthening linkages between the education sector
and the private sector to guarantee that students have the appropriate skills to succeed in the work
place.

Sector Background. The education sector--before the design of the present project which the
cancelled loan was to support--was characterized by the following: (i) primary enrollment and
years of schooling had increased, but there was still a secondary enrollment and completion
deficit, particularly for the poorest 40 percent of the population; (ii) school-to-work transition was
limited due to lack of congruence between what was taught in school and the skill mix required in
the Salvadorian industries; (iii) traditional modalities of education delivery in the country did not
attract poor and working youth, due to rigid schedules, urban-biased location, and lack of
demand-side incentives (such as scholarships).

In primary education, innovations--such as community-based education programs like EDUCO
(Programa Educativo con Participación de la Comunidad), flexible rural primary education
modalities (accelerated learning and multigrade classrooms) and public-private alliances for
education delivery--yielded positive lessons. In 2006, the net enrollment rate (NER) in primary
education was 92 percent (expected to reach 95 percent by 2009) and the primary completion rate
reached 81.5 percent. Using international data and controlling for per capita income, El Salvador
was clearly outperforming countries with similar per capita incomes by between 10 and 15
percentage points. El Salvador educational innovations have served as models for other countries
with similar education challenges, especially in providing equitable educational opportunities for
the poor.

Improvement in access to and completion of primary education created pressure on the secondary
education cycle to make room for the larger number and more diverse pool of students
demanding secondary education. Although the country's transition rate between grade 6 and
grade 7 had reached about 95 percent, there was still: (i) persistent drop-out during the lower
secondary cycle; (ii) insufficient transition between grade 9 and 10; and (iii) substantial
differences in secondary education access, transition and drop-out between urban and rural areas
and socio-economic strata. Additionally, a very substantial fraction of students were over-age in
secondary school (about 60 percent in each grade), producing a strong disincentive to continue in




                                                   1

school because of opportunity costs which increase with age.1 In response to greater demand,
secondary education enrollment substantially increased (60% net enrollment in 2004), but with
low internal efficiency and high inequity. Secondary enrollment deficits persisted in rural areas
and among poor youth in the country.

There is also evidence of low quality in secondary education in El Salvador. The percentage of
students reaching "intermediate" achievement on national standardized exams in 2002 was lower
in grade 9 than it was in grade 3, particularly in mathematics. Achievement was slightly higher in
grade 11 at the secondary education terminal exam (PAES) but averaged "lower intermediate" for
both academic and technical streams of secondary schools and in all subject areas. On the 2003
secondary exit exam (PAES) only eight percent of students reached "advanced" markings. If
evaluated on a standard curve, the majority of secondary education Salvadorian students would
fail.

Rationale for Bank Assistance
Since the Peace Accords of 1992, the Bank has been a key partner in the education sector of El
Salvador. Through technical assistance, investment sector loans, and adjustment programmatic
loans, the Bank has accompanied El Salvador for more than a decade, during which time major
improvements in the sector have been evident.            El Salvador innovated through worldwide
renowned programs such as EDUCO (community-based managed schools), pertinent rural
education pedagogical methods (multigrade and accelerated learning), improved teacher
education and training strategies, and highly efficient management improvements of the sector.

Most recently, the Government requested Bank assistance to increase, in the large population
segment of youth in the country, the acquisition of skills necessary to support innovative,
technological development. Thus, the Bank supported El Salvador in conducting diagnostic
studies to broaden the equitable coverage and improve the quality of secondary education. The
        2

studies concluded that a population with full secondary education is important to boost national
competitiveness and GDP in an increasingly technological world.3 Also, it was determined that
demand for educated workers was only likely to increase with the CAFTA (Central American
Free Trade Agreement) because of reforms to liberalize trade regimes, encourage foreign direct
investment, and facilitate licensing of technologies.

El Salvador considered that the Bank had comparative advantage in diagnostic work, design, and
technical know-how in the following areas: (i) technical and technological education, (ii) school-
to-work transition, and (iii) flexible education delivery modalities for working and poor youth. El
Salvador, thus, requested Bank assistance to respond to the strong rise in the demand for
individuals with advanced skills in the country. The Bank became a key ally of the Government
of El Salvador and the Ministry of Education to provide technical assistance and access to



1The evidence on El Salvador indicates a sharply increasing drop-out rate from the age of 14 (The World
Bank, 2005, Central American Strategy Paper).
2The World Bank's Central American Strategy Paper (2005), the El Salvador Country Economic
Memorandum (2003), Country Assistance Strategy (2005), Poverty Assessment (2004), and Ricardo
Hausmann's, A National Development Agenda for El Salvador (2003).
3See Fuller and Holsinger (1993), The World Bank (2003), and The World Bank (2005).




                                                   2

international networks of knowledge to design an innovative secondary education program. The
Bank's assistance focused on strategies to increase the skills needed to support competitiveness
and economic growth, and to correct the poor quality of schooling and limited enrollment in and
completion of secondary education (and therefore also access to tertiary)--especially for poor,
working and/or rural youth.

Development Objective and Key Indicators of the Excellence and Innovation of
Secondary Education Project

The Project's development objective was to increase equitable opportunities for young people to
complete their secondary education with high quality general and/or relevant specialized
competencies. As such, appropriate key indicators included: (i) increase secondary school (grades
7-11/12) enrollment and completion, particularly for the most disadvantaged socio-economic
groups; (ii) increase the percentage of secondary students scoring at the intermediate or advanced
level on the grade 9 and PAES exams; and (iii) increase the proportion of technical education
graduates who continue into tertiary.

The targeted regional areas of intervention would include regions: (i) with low socio-economic
and education indicators, and (ii) targeted for key economic sector development of the country,
such as ports (air and marine), tourism, and agro-industry. Monitoring and evaluation systems
would provide information on interventions and beneficiaries decoding by income, gender, and
sector (rural vs. urban).

Components

Component 1: Quality, Relevance and Competitiveness of Secondary Education (US$ 43.5
million).    This component would promote high-quality relevant secondary education by
supporting measures to improve learning in core subjects, teaching-learning environments, and
the relevance of technical education through stronger linkages with tertiary education and the
private sector.

Sub-component 1A: Learning in Core Subjects
Its main goal was to improve quality and relevance of secondary education by improving learning
in five key areas (Spanish, math, science, social science, and English). Ensuring high learning
levels in core subjects is the basis for improving the productivity and competitiveness prospects
of the country. Student learning was to be improved by developing basic competencies and
targeting low achievers. Methodological guides, teacher training and an update of the study plans
of pre-service teacher education would support the application of competencies. Additionally,
part of this sub-component would improve the English language communication skills of youth
completing secondary school by strengthening teaching and learning of English in public schools
and offering English instruction as an extracurricular course for secondary students. Finally, this
sub-component would also target those students who are academically behind, as measured by
very poor scores in the PAES and grade 9 exams, and the disabled (students with special needs),
by developing special academic reinforcement programs in schools.

Sub-component 1B: Relevance of Technical Education
It would improve the relevance of technical secondary education, integrating it with tertiary
technological education. This reform would be supported by the development of three regionally-
based, technical-technological networks. These networks would include technical institutes,
technological institutes and, when possible, universities offering technical careers, such as
engineering, integrated from both the curricular and physical resources perspective. They would


                                                3

be developed in three regional development poles in the country (Comalapa, Zona Norte and
Sonsonate), as determined by the new National Development Plan (Plan de Nación). Key to the
implementation of these networks would be a competency-based reform, a rationalization of the
supply of technical tracks, teacher professional development, and the targeted expansion and
equipping of the network hubs for the benefit of the whole network. These networks would also
allow for higher levels of integration of technical education with the labor market and
professional training, to some extent, laying the basis for a life-long learning framework.

Sub-component 1C: Technology for learning
This sub-component would improve the quality and relevance of secondary education by
improving the population's comfort with and mastery of information technology (computers and
connectivity). The effective use of Information Communication Technologies (ICTs) can
potentially have the greatest impact on the following skills: critical thinking, collaboration, team
work, information reasoning, information literacy, and cultural awareness. The sub-component
would provide new technology labs in secondary schools (including infrastructure improvement
when needed, computers and audiovisual equipment), while putting in place a coherent use policy,
which ensures integration with the curriculum, appropriate examinations that test the
skills/knowledge that are expected to be developed, adequate training of teachers and students
and the incentives for the teachers and students to effectively use the investment.

Sub-component 1D: Schools' environment for learning
This sub-component would improve the quality and relevance of secondary education by
improving the teaching-learning environment in poor marginalized schools through an
improvement of the social environment. El Salvador has unique challenges present in
marginalized, urban secondary schools where poverty, violence, poor infrastructure and services,
and insecurity make it difficult for students to learn, teachers to teach, and schools to function at
their highest capacity. This sub-component would strengthen the social environment in poor,
urban secondary schools with violence problems and gang-related activity by supporting the
prevention measures for at-risk behavior, through training in conflict resolution, and promoting a
sense of participation and solidarity, through the design and implementation of school youth
projects and the creation of student brigades (co-ed type of boy/girl scouts).

Component 2: Broad-Based Coverage (US$36 million)
This component would promote broad-based coverage in secondary education by supporting
three key strategies: (a) the development of flexible delivery models; (b) the development of a
new demand-side subsidy scheme; and (c), where needed, the expansion and rehabilitation of
public infrastructure. The bulk of the secondary coverage gap in El Salvador is in the bottom 40
income percentile and in the rural areas; and the drop-out increases massively from the age of 14.

Sub-component 2A: Flexible Delivery Models
Flexible modalities are a promising means of providing relevant, quality schooling to
disadvantaged groups. This subcomponent sought to expand secondary education coverage in a
broad-based way by developing flexible delivery modalities, including accelerated, semi-distance
and distance education modalities, for youth who did not complete, or are at risk of not
completing, secondary education. Flexible delivery models have proven to be a promising means
of providing relevant, quality schooling to rural, lower/lower-middle income, and over-age
students. All modalities would be available for both lower and upper secondary education, have
specific target populations and prioritize geographic areas with worse than average education
indicators and better than average labor market prospects for secondary graduates. All three
modalities would be implemented through accredited agencies, as part of the contracting-out
strategy of the MINED. To ensure quality, the institutions would go through a thorough


                                                  4

accreditation process (see sub-component III.A) and all the programs would be based on the same
general competencies as the traditional programs and be subject to the same tests in grades 9 and
11.

Sub-component 2B: Demand side scheme
This sub-component aimed at expanding secondary education coverage by developing a demand-
side scheme for lower-income students. Lower-income families face higher direct and
opportunity costs of schooling, as well as lower rates of return. El Salvador already had
experience with demand-side interventions and the present scheme would build on this
experience. This subcomponent would provide yearly grants to support secondary completion for
youth from the bottom two income quintiles. Students would need to be in school and some
minimum academic performance criteria would be applied. Alternative options were analyzed,
including using electricity bills as main targeting criteria, since the amount of electricity used is
highly correlated with income, and electricity bills are easy to monitor. In case of excess demand
of eligible students, a lottery would help select the beneficiary students. Students would have the
choice between public and private schools, which have been previously selected according to
strict quality criteria and space availability. Grants would be available starting in grades 7 and 10
and would cover the main private direct costs. To ensure sustainability, a mixed public-private
fund would be set-up. Finally, a monitoring and evaluation scheme would also be set up to
monitor student and school performance in time and an impact evaluation of the grant scheme
undertaken.

Sub-component 2C: Expansion of Infrastructure
Although lack of infrastructure is not the main cause for low secondary enrollment in the country,
it is still an issue in upper secondary education, as also indicated by a sharper transition rate
between grade 9 and 10. While there is more supply in urban than rural areas, classrooms are
often over-crowded (over 45 pupils per classroom) in urban and marginal-urban schools requiring
urgent attention as well. This sub-component aimed to increase secondary education coverage by
expanding and improving the infrastructure and equipping formal, public general and technical
secondary schools.      This approach assumes it is more cost-effective to address the supply
shortage in rural areas through distance education programs and migration to urban areas.

Component 3: Management and Evaluation for Effectiveness (US$ 13.6 millions)
This component would enhance the effectiveness of all the project's interventions by developing
solid evaluation, certification and accreditation systems, and by improving school management
and decentralization.

Sub-component 3A: Evaluation and accreditation for effectiveness
This sub-component would maximize the effectiveness of the interventions of the project by
developing solid monitoring, evaluation, certification and accreditation systems. Most of the
interventions of the project required a strong evaluation and monitoring system to ensure that they
achieve their objectives. Additionally, some of them relied on strong accreditation processes to be
carried-out effectively; while others relied on teacher quality, which is closely related to teacher
performance evaluation and certification.

Monitoring and evaluation: The monitoring and evaluation system of El Salvador is already fairly
advanced (Annexes 3 and 4 of the PAD detail the characteristics of this system), although there
are persistent key weaknesses, such as limitations in the extension, completeness and relevance of
external evaluation, the lack of continuity in elaborating and monitoring key indicators, and the
insufficient dissemination and operational use of the information. The project would strengthen
the country's monitoring and evaluation system by improving the assessment of academic skills


                                                   5

(details are provided in Annex 4) and developing a new institutional set-up for monitoring and
evaluation to ensure better coordination, continuity of monitoring and dissemination of results

Accreditation of institutions: The country still needed to develop an effective accreditation system
for private and non-profit institutions (schools, NGOs, other institutions) to ensure high quality
standards. The project would help the country set up an effective policy and institutional
framework for accreditation of institutions.

Teacher evaluation and certification: Finally, the country also needed to improve its system of
teacher performance evaluation and certification. The project would support more continuous
teacher performance evaluation by helping define clear performance profiles and standards on
which to base solid performance evaluation, which would make it possible to certify in-service
training and reward actual classroom performance. It would also support an adequate institutional
framework for certification, which may involve the creation of a new external agency, specialized
in both accreditation (see above) and certification.

Sub-component 3B: Management and decentralization for effectiveness
This sub-component would enhance the effectiveness of the project's interventions by improving
school management and decentralization. The 2001 analysis on the determinants of the PAES
results indicated that school management is related to secondary education academic results, with
strong evidence for the variables measuring directors' leadership and school autonomy. These
variables have a positive impact on academic achievement by improving teacher effort and
commitment, school and classroom environment, and the availability and use of teaching-learning
materials, that is by strengthening most of the interventions of Component I. Additionally,
management and, particularly, autonomy, could help expand coverage in difficult to reach areas,
therefore strengthening the impact of the interventions of Component II. Effective management
and decentralization in secondary education would require a mix of interventions aimed at: (a)
helping directors develop their leadership skills; (b) strengthening school councils to allow them
to manage more effectively their education budgets and implement successfully their yearly
education plan; (c) providing better tools for quality control; and, (d) when needed, deepening
school autonomy.

Implementation arrangements

The Implementation arrangements for the EXITO Project were developed with a focus on three
key principles: (i) consolidated MINED institutionalized project implementation; (ii) promotion
of strategic alliances for increased capacity, and (iii) results-based management (including
emphasis on targeting, monitoring and evaluation). The project implementation period was
defined for five years.

Consolidated Institutionalized Project Implementation:
MINED had continuously managed IBRD and IDB-financed projects over the last 15 years (with
no need for a Project Coordination Unit - PCU). During this period, a key goal was to gradually
institutionalize the implementation of externally financed projects within its line departments
(rather than with a parallel PCU). Thus, the EXITO Project was to be managed within the line
departments, divisions, and chief units ("jefaturas") of MINED. During project preparation, an
"Institutional Analysis" and an "Institutional Capacity Feasibility Study" was prepared as
evidence of MINED's existing capacity.




                                                  6

Promotion of Strategic Alliances
As part of the Project implementation arrangements, MINED sought to institutionalize its to-date
successful work with other education institutional actors: Education Foundations, Universities,
NGOs, and other education specialized institutions. For example, in training and development,
MINED had worked with FEPADE (Fundación Empresarial para el Desarrollo Educativo); in
research and analytical work, with FUSADES (Fundación para el Desarrollo Económico y
Social); in standardized testing and other technical and pedagogical support with UCA
(Universidad Centroamerica Jose Simeon Cañas); and in infrastructure construction,
rehabilitation and expansion with FISDL, HABITAT, FUNDASAL and others.

Results-based Management
Project implementation (diagnosis, strategic planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation) included specific guidelines, procedures, instruments and resources to guarantee the
quality of targeting, accreditation, monitoring and evaluation, as well as participation of
stakeholders across the education sector (central, regional, community and school).

Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

 Potential Risks                                    Mitigation/Actions
 Fiscal space is tight in El Salvador, which could  The Ministry and the GOES are highly committed to the Plan 2021
 cause delays in counterpart funding.               and the education sector reform. The Plan 2021 includes provisions
                                                    for increased education spending.
 The Ministry will be charged with preparation and  The Ministry has strengthened its capacity to prepare and implement
 implementation of the proposed project without     the project through the use of targeted studies and training of
 any separate PCU to fortify the effort.            personnel supported by a PHRD grant.
 As evidenced through the implementation of the     Procurement and financial management have improved and are now
 on-going projects, the Ministry has weak capacity  considered satisfactory.
 in the areas of procurement and financial          Close technical support and provision of training in procurement and
 management which has delayed implementation        financial management as needed.
 and slowed the pace of disbursements, leading to
 multiple extensions to the closing date.
 The Ministry will have to coordinate several co-   UACI would be expected to move towards strengthening its
 executing agencies.                                competencies in supervision of the Annual Procurement Plans
                                                    (PACs) that executing agencies would be conducting, and in ex-post
                                                    review activities of procurement conducted by the latter.

 There may be potential opposition from             There is strong parental and community support for both EDUCO
 stakeholders (teachers' union) in relationship to  schools and the provision of scholarships to needy families whether
 scholarships for public and private school         for public or private school places. The union has been part of the
 attendance as well as the expansion of EDUCO       consultation process and continues to be.
 schools. Teachers at EDUCO schools are not part
 of the union.
 As evidenced through the history of the previous   There is strong political support for this project, which should
 projects, the delay can be long between board      facilitate congressional approval.
 approval and effectiveness.                        Permanent dialogue and alliance building with key stakeholders
 A divided Congress can delay project               should ensure broad-based support for this operation.
 effectiveness.


Quality at Entry

The quality of the sector diagnosis, objectives, indicators, feasibility studies, design, and
implementation arrangements are considered satisfactory, through the work of the Ministry of


                                                   7

Education and the support of the Bank. The preparation of the EXITO Project was done as part
of a Long-Term Education Plan, which built in the lessons learned of the first 10-year Education
Development Program of El Salvador (1995-2005). The Plan 2021, as the new education plan is
now called, defined innovative, pertinent and strategic improvements in the education sector from
2005-2021.       An integrated diagnostic work of studies carried by the country and other
development agencies, including the Bank, provided a clear picture of areas of success and
priorities for future development for the country's education.

The original design for the secondary education program benefited from high-quality feasibility
studies (pedagogical, social, economic, financial, etc.) and from wide stakeholder consultations
and support for the education program, including from the opposition parties and teacher unions
in the country. In line with increased technical assistance from the Bank in impact evaluation,
the monitoring and evaluation systems--for both the Long Term Plan 2021 and the Project--
included specific counterfactual designs and pertinent impact and process indicators.

The analysis of external and internal risks was also comprehensive, and considered the risk of
delays in effectiveness based on previous experience with long Congressional debate--after
which the loans eventually became effective. The original assessed risk of division in the
National Assembly was followed by the identification and implementation of mitigation
strategies. An information, consultation and outreach plan to members of the National Assembly
was designed and implemented by the Government and through several Bank follow up missions.
Nonetheless, the Bank underestimated the risk of "lack of consensus" and "extreme political
polarization" which led to the possibility that the loan would never become effective.
Unfortunately, after the 2006 mid-term congressional elections (and after the CAS and project
loan had been prepared and assessed), the political polarization increased to previously
unexpected high levels, with the result of congressional gridlock in many issues of the legislative
agenda, including external loan financing.

As will be detailed below, even within the new complex political environment, the Bank and the
Ministry of Education continued to be proactive in redefining their risk assessment and mitigation
strategies, especially when the non-ratification of the EXITO loan was imminent. The impact of
this proactive planning was that the secondary education components, originally included in the
EXITO Project, are nonetheless being implemented (with alternative sources of finance) and
making progress towards the accomplishment of the Project's original Development Objectives.

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

The reason for loan cancellation was non-ratification by the National Assembly of the proposed
loan for the EXITO Project, within the 18 months after Board Approval. The Bank's Board
approved the loan on December 29, 2005 and the Bank terminated the Loan Agreement as of
June 15, 2007. This section provides details of how the Bank team correctly identified political
polarization as a source of risk for the loan to be ratified and how it deployed all possible
mitigation actions; the political environment at the time of CAS and loan processing provided
evidence that this risk was manageable.         This section also provides information on the
implications of loan cancellation, and the Government's efforts to find alternative sources of
financing, which today are contributing to the achievement of the Project's original PDOs.




                                                 8

2.1 Political panorama when Country Assistance Strategy was approved and at time of the
Education Loan ratification

The Bank CAS for FY05-FY08 period contemplated an expanded lending program, and the
education project was one of its priority interventions. When the CAS was approved, the
country's political panorama was characterized by a Government that enjoyed sufficient support
in the Assembly to get legislation through, including approval of new loans. An evidence of this
positive political environment was the first loan delivered by the Bank under the CAS, the DPL1,
which was approved and ratified by Congress with no major problems.

In this context, it was reasonable to believe that the political-polarization risk was manageable.
Nonetheless, and given early signs of increasing political polarization in the country, the CAS and
each individual operation prepared by the Bank identified potential political gridlock as a source
of risk to our interventions. For the education loan, specific mitigation strategies for this risk
included project information activities with members of the National Assembly, especially from
opposition parties.    The initial mitigation strategies paid off as the first loan consideration
required prior to the signing of the education loan was approved.

Nevertheless, after the mid-term congressional election outcome in March 2006, the polarization
increased rapidly and came to its highest point, and subsequently the Government political
strength was diminished. This change in the political environment happened prior to the second
review of the education loan in the National Assembly (under El Salvador law, a second review is
needed for loan effectiveness), which this time required a qualified majority (2/3 of total votes)
for approval.

Extreme high levels of political polarization exceeded Bank expectations and seriously limited
Government's capacity to reach consensus with a qualified majority in Congress. Negotiations
between the executive and legislative in other domestic fronts and national interest issues suffered
as well from the political gridlock. As for new international lending, the main opposition party,
with 38% of congresspersons, exercised its veto affecting five Bank loans (including the
education project) and other multilateral loans for around $485 million.

The Bank, in harmonization with other multilateral development banks, made all possible efforts
(to be detailed below) to help build the consensus in Congress. The open discussion of project
merits in economic and social fronts with all political parties had no success, due to the extremely
high unexpected level of political gridlock. Without other option, the Government identified
alternative funding to support the original education project's PDOs, and the country decision
was to not further negotiate and the Bank was forced to cancel the loan after reaching the 18-
month effectiveness period.

2.2 Steps take to resolve unexpected problems

As explained in the political panorama section, the risk of political polarization for loan approval
was included in the Project Appraisal Document and a proactive plan was prepared with the
Government to explain the Project concept and its expected benefits to members of the National
Assembly, including those in the opposition. The Ministry of Education and the Bank collected
and provided all information needed to clarify the Project's objectives, beneficiaries, equitable
criteria and transparent management, among other information.            Specific information and
documents made available included: (i) audits of previously externally financed projects, (ii)
presentation of Implementation Completion Reports, (iii) the presentation of the poverty-



                                                 9

reduction targets of the Project, and (iv) evidence of the community participation processes in
favor of rural and poor communities.

As the political polarization continued to increase, beyond original expectations, MINED and the
Bank defined and implemented an even more intense Information and Outreach Plan, which
included technical, financial, management and stakeholder strategies. Each of these activities is
detailed below:

        Technical Inputs:
            o Providing the National Assembly technical analysis on external loans' impact on
                 achieving and accelerating education goals.
        Financial Information:
            o Complying with the National Assembly requests for extended audits of the
                 Education Reform Project by the Contraloría de Cuentas.
            o Support MINED's proposal to audit all previous education loans with no major
                 problems identified.
        Top Management Follow Up:
            o Meetings among MINED, members of the National Assembly from the Official
                 and opposition parties, and the WB.
            o Regular in-situ follow up by the World Bank Resident Mission for all IBRD
                 loans with official and opposition parties in the National Assembly.
            o Top World Bank Management missions to El Salvador, including the Regional
                 Vice-president and the Country Director.
            o Bank sponsored workshops with members of the Financial and Budget
                 Commission of the National Assembly prior to loan cancellation (both in
                 Washington and in El Salvador).
        Stakeholders' information:
            o Information to stakeholders on the costs and benefits of the education sector
                 loans, including media information, direct town meetings with project
                 beneficiaries, and National Assembly lobbying by affected communities.

It was expected that this Information and Outreach strategies would support the consensus for
approval of the loan by the National Assembly of El Salvador, within 18 month period allowed to
effectiveness.   Individual members of the National Assembly (from the leading and opposition
parties) mentioned their support to the objectives of the education loans; however, once the
voting in the National Assembly took place, the positive votes required for approval of the
education loan were not enough (the voting was 6 votes short of reaching the 2/3 consensus
required for ratification).

As the political stalemate for loan ratification became more imminent, the Ministry of Education
and Bank teams identified and began to implement a plan to guarantee that the Education
Program to be financed by the loan could start implementation with alternative sources of
finance (from other donors and the Government). The Bank also facilitated technical assistance
and international know-how to El Salvador in the key areas of Project support:          flexible
secondary education modalities, English-As-Second Language (ESL) programs, integration
between technical and technological education, and At-Risk-Youth support and reduction of
violence in schools.

While continuing to work with the National Assembly to obtain the second ratification of the
IBRD education loan--as the final 18-month deadline for loan effectiveness was coming to an
end--the Ministry of Education began to implement some of the EXITO Project's activities, with


                                                 10

counterpart financing and Bank technical assistance and supervision. The Implementation
Supervision Reports (ISRs) for the Project during this phase, included evidence of progress in the
monitoring and evaluation indicators for various components, such as the Flexible Secondary
Education Modalities (called EDUCAME in El Salvador), the Technical and Technological
Integrated Programs (MEGATEC), the School Environment Program (PODER), and the
Technology (CONECTATE) and English As Second Language Programs (COMPITE). The
monitoring, evaluation and accreditation systems were strengthened and implemented, and the
Bank continued to provide technical support to El Salvador in these areas.

As an alternative financing strategy, the Ministry of Education and the Bank began working on a
coordination strategy with other bilateral donors in El Salvador. The Secondary Education
Program, to be supported by the EXITO Project and the Bank's loan, had become a well
structured, substantiated, and well designed national education sector strategy. As such, other
donors (JICA, USAID, German Cooperation Agency, Spaniard Cooperation Agency,
Luxemburgo Cooperation, UN, and others) were willing to support the secondary education
investments originally included in the IBRD loan. Grant funding, which only requires a simple
majority vote in El Salvador by the National Assembly, partially supported the initial financing
that would have been provided by the IBRD loan.

2.3 Implications of loan cancellation

The loan cancellation has financial, educational and Bank lending implications.        Financially,
once the withdrawal of the Bank's loan was confirmed, the Government proposed a Plan to sell
National Treasury Bonds to finance the key elements of the long term development plan, Plan
2021, including the Secondary Education Program for which external financing had been sought.
The US$200 million dollars that will be available through the internal financing strategy--would
guarantee investments to reach the original development objectives of the EXITO Project that
was to have been financed by the IBRD loan. The original PDOs to be supported by the loan
were also included in programs supported by other education donors, including Japan,
Luxembourg, Spain, and the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC).. The implications of
these decisions include higher costs of domestic funding mechanisms in relation to multilateral
loans, as well as unlikely guarantees of replication of large scale donations in the future.
However, the Government assessed that the costs of not providing secondary education now to
present cohorts of youth were much higher that the costs of the alternative sources of financing
identified. Multilateral funding is thus likely to be required in the next CAS period.

As for the education sector implications, the loan withdrawal would not affect the original
secondary education development objectives, beneficiaries, and the related economic and social
benefits and poverty alleviation goals--given the Government's ability to overcome short-
term financing gaps by further mobilizing grants and domestic funding. However, the late
start and scaled down of investments (supported by counterpart and donor funds) did and will
affect the expected dates of achievement of originally stated PDOs. Especially, the 2008 net
enrollment rate target in lower secondary education--which will continue to be monitor within
the El Salvador 2005-08 CAS--was reduced from 55% to 53%.

Evidence of steady progress (albeit at a lower pace) is shown by the MINEDUC's monitoring
indicators of the innovative secondary education programs originally included in the EXITO
Project: (i) flexible and innovative secondary education access for poor, working and rural youth
(EDUCAME); (ii) development of innovative programs to integrate technical and technological
education (MEGATEC) in the country; (iii) strategies to reduce violence in schools and support
at-risk-youth (PODER); and (iv) education and competitiveness programs, such as English-as-


                                                   11

Second Language (COMPITE), technology (CONECTATE) and scholarships connected to
productive skills; the tables below show the updated monitoring indicators for each of these
programs.

                            Broad Based Coverage in Secondary Education
                Expansion of Flexible Secondary Education Modalities (EDUCAME)
                                                2006-2007
Gender       2006         2007        Total                         Total by Grades
                                                    7           8          9            10          11
Male         1,562        5,424      6,986         192         74          0          1,075        221
Female       2,298        7,979      10,277        236         156         0          1,495        411
Total        3,860       13,403      17,263        428         230         0          2,570        632

               Schools Social Environment and Learning for At Risk-Youth (PODER)
                             Students and Teachers Benefited 2006-2007
       Number of Schools                   Number of Students                 Number of Teachers
               40                                 39,337

                                       Technology for Learning
             Incremental Access to Technology and Internet in Schools (CONECTATE)
                                                2004-2006
Year                       Number of Schools          Students with Access       Number of Computers
2004                                 294                      147,000                     4,704
2005                                 360                      333,001                     6,696
2006                                 518                      403,296                     14,534

                                Improving Learning In Core Subjects
                         English As Second Language Program (COMPITE)
                       Youth Benefited by Level of Education and Municipality
                                                2005-2007
       Level of Education             Number of Youth Benefited                   Municipality
Lower Secondary Education                         1,105                San Marcos, Santa Tecla, La
                                                                       Union, Metapan
Upper Secondary Education                         1,451                San Salvador, San Marcos,
                                                                       Nejapa, Soyapango, Puerto de la
                                                                       Libertad, Juayua, Acajutla, La
                                                                       Union, Conchagua
Post-Secondary Technological                      3,150                Santa Tecla, Santa Ana,
                                                                       Zacatecoluca, San Miguel, La
                                                                       Union
"Call Centers" Program                             683
Number of Students in Call                        6,389
Center Program


                                  Relevance of Technical Education
                   Technical and Technological Integrated Centers (MEGATEC)
                                              Status to Date
Region            Status                                               Coverage (No. of Students)
La Union          Initiated in 2006 with a second cohort in 2007       486
                  (supported by a grant by the Japanese Government
                  of US$4.6 million and an additional US$3.2 of
                  GOES funds.
Sonsonate         Building of center initiated in December of 2006     To initiate in school year 2008



                                                   12

Chalatenango        To be supported by the Millenium Challenge        To initiate in school year 2009
                    Corporation, MCC)
Chalatenango        To be supported by `Fidecomiso para el Desarrollo To initiate in school year 2009
                    Social" (Government Bonds).

Finally, the political gridlock has undercut the lending program and impeded the utilization of
financial instruments from the Bank and other multilaterals. To continue to be engaged in the
education sector would imply pro-active and innovative non-lending activities. A set of non-
lending interventions has been identified and discussed with government authorities and
stakeholders. The goal is to facilitate policy discussion and consensus-building on key
development topics while providing technical advice and inputs. The proposed work will be
closely coordinated with other donors and domestic stakeholders to maximize the impact of
focused activities in selected areas.

2.4 Bank Technical Assistance Program for the Social Sectors.

In this new context of Bank-El Salvador development alliance, the Bank has facilitated a
technical assistance fund to remain engaged in key social sectors in El Salvador, mainly
education and social protection. The Bank will continue to furnish technical support to these
programs in three main areas: (i) international knowledge sharing, notably in secondary
education reform, labor opportunities and psycho-social support for youth; (ii) design and
implementation of impact evaluations for education and conditional cash transfer
programs; and (iii) the integration and decentralization of education management systems
to improve planning, monitoring and results. Through this interim strategy of support, El
Salvador and the Bank will remain engaged as allies to support the country's development efforts
and programs, while continuing to provide El Salvador with access to the Bank's technical
assistance and international know-how.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance
(Lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance role,
compliance with Bank policies, and justification for rating):

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance is rated satisfactory given: (i) the Bank's correct identification of political
polarization as a source of risk and its mitigation strategies, which was followed by a proactive
intensification of risk management when a new unexpected political scenario developed (after the
2006 mid-term Congress elections); (ii) the technical assistance provided to the Ministry of
Education in their definition of an innovative, future-focused and pertinent secondary education
strategy; (iii) its continued engagement throughout a difficult politically polarized environment;
and (iv) its support to the Ministry of Education towards finding alternative sources of financing,
technical assistance and other instruments to guarantee the implementation of El Salvador's
secondary education investments, despite withdrawal of the Bank's loan.

During project preparation, the Government of El Salvador elaborated its Long-Term Education
Plan (called Plan 2021) with technical assistance from the Bank's task team. The Secondary
Education Program is an integral part of Plan 2021. During the preparation and implementation
of the Information and Outreach Plan to Congress and stakeholders, the Task Team and Bank
management displayed not only traditional technical and client orientation skills, but also strong
communication, outreach and negotiation skills in a very complex political context.


                                                  13

With imminent signs that the Bank's loan would not be approved by the National Assembly, the
Bank's team was again proactive in supporting the Ministry of Education towards the
identification of financing vehicles so that the important secondary education investments that
were included in the EXITO Project could be implemented. The Bank supported the MINED in
its coordination efforts with other donors. Government counterpart funds and donor support
allowed for the Plan 2021--and the secondary education components--to start implementation
even before the loan was withdrawn.         The Bank is defining new strategies to support the
country's development efforts, and initially has included in its work program a technical
assistance plan and budget for the social sector programs (education and social protection).

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(Government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants, justification for
rating):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Despite lack of loan approval by the National Assembly, the overall performance of the
Government, with support of the Ministry of Education, during this difficult period is considered
moderately satisfactory. Other cancelled IBRD loans were given an unsatisfactory rating in this
criterion in their respective NCOs; however, for the education loan, the performance of the
Borrower is considered moderately satisfactory given the additional special effort made to
safeguard the original project PDOs and to find and negotiate alternative sources of financing to
achieve them.

The performance of the Government, and especially the Ministry of Education, was evaluated
based on: (i) the provision of all project and education sector-related information and
clarifications requested by the members of the National Assembly; (ii) the Government's efforts
to provide counterpart funding to initiate project implementation (as evidenced in the monitoring
system indicators); (iii) the process of donor harmonization and coordination which resulted in
the identification of bilateral funds to support its Secondary Education Program (approximately
US$20 million); and (iv) the alternative financing strategy, through national funds to guarantee
US$200 million in funding to the Long-Term Education Program of El Salvador, which included
the investments to be originally supported by the EXITO Project and loan.

Given the above stated efforts, the present cohort of youth in El Salvador is already receiving the
following pertinent, equitable and high quality education services: flexible secondary education
(targeted to poor, working, urban marginal and rural youth); competitiveness programs such as
English As Second Language and Information Technology; integration of technical and
technological education services connected to major economic and business development centers
of the country; and programs to reduce youth risks and school violence.

The Government continues to back the Long Term Education Program and is committed to
provide quality, pertinent and accessible secondary education to its population, especially the
poor. The evidenced policy, financial and operational commitment to the secondary education
reforms of the Plan 2021 augurs well for a sustainable and able impact of the Project's originally
identified development objectives.




                                                 14

5. Lessons Learned
(Both project-specific and of wide general application)

Lessons learned for reflection and future application in Bank, LAC and Task Team work are
grouped in the following topics: (i) growing political polarization affecting multilateral
development banks in Latin America, (ii) redefining Bank cooperation strategies and services (in
addition to loan financing), (iii) management of project exogenous issues (outside task team
control), and (iv) the important role of information and outreach in Bank's work.

Political Polarization in Latin America: One broad lesson learned to reflect on is the changing
socio-political environment in Latin America.         Latin America is today characterized by an
increasingly polarized political environment. The Bank continues to have a role to play in this
context; however, it needs to define a strategy to work with clients through out the political and
ideological spectrum existent in Latin America today.

El Salvador represents this trend, were two major parties contemplate different approaches to
development, and to the role of international assistance (other countries may include Venezuela,
Ecuador, Bolivia and Nicaragua, but also client countries such as Costa Rica, Mexico, and Brazil).
A major lesson learned through the El Salvador impasse is that the Bank must heed the growing
evidence of the changing socio-political environment in Latin America and identify the
implications for our services and strategic engagement in the region.

Bank New Role in Countries with Alternative Sources of Financing: Another lesson learned is the
high demand of Bank's technical assistance in El Salvador, even with the non-approval of the
Bank loan. El Salvador did identify alternative sources of finance for it secondary education
program, but still has demanded Bank technical support. It is clear through the El Salvador case
that the Bank's know-how, expertise, access to international knowledge and lessons learned did
contribute to the design, implementation and monitoring and evaluation readiness and feasibility
of a major reform in Secondary Education. Thus, the Bank needs to define more strategically our
changing services, independently of loan financing. The Bank's poverty eradication mission can
also be served by responding to the growing demands for knowledge sharing and technical
support, especially from middle-income countries such as El Salvador.

Task Managing in Highly Political Volatile Contexts: Managing highly political environments is
not easy on task teams; it requires varied skills, top management support, alliance building, and
knowing the limits of Bank influence.        Skills required include not only our traditional sector,
economic, social and financial assessments and know-how; it requires as well negotiation
strategies, conflict resolution skills, self-management, and alliance building competencies. Bank
management understanding of the increasingly complex, ideological and political environment of
our work can contribute to improved human resources, monitoring and supervisory support. For
example, in the El Salvador case, although delays in project's effectiveness due to political
polarization were identified as a critical risk, the political climate in the National Assembly after
the 2006 mid-term congressional elections was clearly beyond Bank's capacities to deal with and
influence, even with a proactive stance.

Outreach and Communication in Bank Work. Outreach and communication strategies should be
implemented in every project. Information, education and communication (IEC) strategies are
key risk mitigation components in highly politicized environments.             In El Salvador, IEC



                                                  15

strategies were useful in communicating the proposed loan objectives and potential impact to all
the political parties and education stakeholders. Although the loan ratification in the National
Assembly--given a highly politicized environment--did not materialize, other benefits did result.
For example, the Bank's Task Team created strategic alliances with donors, cooperation agencies
and key stakeholders in order to communicate the project's objectives and create a broader
support within the educational community of El Salvador.




                                              16

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


               Names                                Title                    Unit        Responsibility/
                                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Emanuela Di Gropello                        Task Team Leader                LCSHE
Fabiola Altimari Montiel                         Counsel                    LEGLA
Ernesto P. Cuadra                       Lead Education Specialist           ECSHD
Angela Demas                                Operations Officer              LCSHE
Emanuela Di Gropello                Senior Human Development Econo          EASHD
Joseph Paul Formoso                       Lead Finance Officer              LOADM
Claudia Isern                                   Temporary                   LCSHD
Joel E. Reyes                           Sr Institutional Dev. Spec.         LCSHE
Christopher J. Thomas                        Sector Manager                 EASHD
Ilana Umansky                          Junior Professional Associate        LCSHE
Manuel Vargas                        Sr Financial Management Specia         LCSFM
Evelyn Villatoro                          Sr Procurement Spec.              LCSPT
Effectivess/Supervision/NCO
Joel E. Reyes                           Sr Institutional Dev. Spec.         LCSHE         Team Leader
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro                  Sr Procurement Spec.              LCSPT
Antonio Leonardo Blasco              Financial Management Specialis         LCSFM
Juan Luis Cordova Guirola                       Consultant                  LCCGT
Natalia Moncada                             Program Assistant               LCSHD
Monica Lehnhoff                            Procurement Analyst              LCSPT
Alberto Pimentel Mata                           Consultant                  LCCGT
Luis R. Prada Villalobos                  Sr Procurement Spec.              LCSPT
Manuel Vargas                        Sr Financial Management Specia         LCSFM
Christel M. J. Vermeersch                       Economist                   LCSHE


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
          Stage of Project Cycle
                                                No. of staff weeks         USD Thousands (including travel
                                                                                 and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY03                                                  18                              64.81
   FY04                                                   1                               3.03
   FY05                                                  32                             112.83
   FY06                                                  36                             124.87
   FY07                                                   1                               4.05
                                 Total:                  88                             309.59
Supervision/NCO
   FY03                                                                                   0.00
   FY04                                                                                   0.00
   FY05                                                                                   0.00
   FY06                                                  10                              36.03
   FY07                                                  20                              67.36


                                 Total:                  30                             103.39




                                                    17

Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents

Briones, C. 2005. Informe Final para la Implementación de Modalidades Flexibles de Educación
Media (mimeo)

El Salvador- Comisión Presidencial. 2004. Educar para el país que queremos.

Edwards, J. 2005. Propuesta para un Instrumento de Subsidio a la Demanda (mimeo)

Guerra, N. and Barrillos, A. 2005. Evaluación Social.

ITCA. 2004. Oportunidades y desafíos de la educación tecnológica en El Salvador.

ITCA. 2005. MEGA TEC: Propuesta de concepto y modelo curricular.

MINED. 2001. PAES 2000: Factores asociados al rendimiento.

MINED. 2004. Diagnostico Integrado de El Salvador.

MINED. 2005. Formulario Ambiental para Proyectos de Infraestructura Educativa.

MINED. 2005. Contrato Modelo para Proyectos de Infraestructura Educativa.

MINED. 2005. Especificaciones Técnicas para Proyectos de Infraestructura Educativa.

MINED 2005. Plan de Educación 2021.

MINED. 2007. Plan Nacional de Educación 2021, Informe de Avance 2005 - 2007.

Perla, Ricardo and de Morera, Aida. 2002. Se buscan jovenes: juventud y mercado de trabajo -
FLACSO

The World Bank. 2003a. Closing the Gap in Education andTtechnology.

The World Bank. 2003b. El Salvador ­ Country Economic Memorandum: Growing in the new
millennium.

The World Bank. 2004a El Salvador Poverty Assessment: Strengthening Social Policy

The World Bank. 2004b. El Salvador ­ Education Strategy Note (unpublished document).

The World Bank. 2005a. Central America Education Strategy Paper: An agenda for action.
The World Bank. 2005b. Central America Education Strategy Paper: Volume II.

The World Bank. 2005c. Expanding Opportunities and Building Competencies for Young People:
A New Agenda for Secondary Education.

The World Bank. 2005d. El Salvador- Country Assistance Strategy.




                                              18

The World Bank. 2005e. El Salvador: Investment climate assessment.

The World Bank. 2005f. Meeting the Challenges of Secondary Education in Latin America and
East Asia (mimeo).

Embajada de Japón y Agencia de Cooperación Internacional del Japón. SF. "Educación: Llave de
Desarrollo".
Embajada de Japón y Agencia de Cooperación Internacional del Japón. SF. "Cien Sacos de
Arroz".
PNUD. 2007. Trayectoria Hacia el Cumplimiento de las ODM en El Salvador. Cuadernos Sobre
Desarrollo Humano.
PNUD, JICA. 2006. Indicadores Municipales sobre Desarrollo Humano y Objetivos de
Desarrollo del Milenio, El Salvador 2005, Informe 262.




                                              19

