                                                                                                                      92747
Excellence and Innovation in Secondary Education (EXITO) Project                                                      April 9, 2007
                                          What is it?  |  Project Implementation   |  Benefits   |  FAQ

An educated labor force able to compete in increasingly global and technological
markets is crucial for poverty reduction and economic growth. A report prepared by
the World Bank on El Salvador’s education sector reveals many related education
policy implications, including the need for: (i) increasing access to education           Additional information
(especially at the secondary level where low enrollment and completion rates
persist); (ii) ensuring that disadvantaged students can enroll and excel in school; (iii)   Project Document

improving the quality of education at all levels; and (iv) strengthening public-private     2021 Program   S
links in education to guarantee that students have the appropriate skills to succeed        IDB Project       
in the work place.                                                                          Impact on education   S
                                                                                              El Salvador: World Bank approves US$85
Since 1998, El Salvador has considerably increased secondary enrollment rates
                                                                                              million for secondary education (press
(grades 7-12) (see page on education outcomes). Currently, El Salvador is                     release)
considered the Central American nation with the highest primary education coverage            Website on education in Latin America and the
and completion growth rates. Despite recent improvements, primary dropout rates               Caribbean
are still high (60 percent in 2004) and the quality of education is poor.
                                                                                             Project at a Glance
The El Salvador Government is implementing a Long-term Educational Development
Plan (2005-2021) called “Plan 2021.” This plan focuses on strategies to improve the          Agency                     Ministry of Education
quality, access, and relevance of secondary and primary education through three                                         (MOE)
main components: (i) flexible delivery modalities for secondary and primary
                                                                                             Loan amount                US$25 million
education (for working and / or rural youth); (ii) programs to improve the
competitiveness of secondary students; and (iii) educational networks (between               Counterpart                US$12 million
secondary schools, vocational schools, and universities) linked to a program that
                                                                                             Implementation period      5 years
strengthens vocational education both at secondary and college levels while
                                                                                             starting at date of        (approximately)
promoting the country’s industrial development.                                              effectiveness

In order to speed up Plan 2021’s completion, El Salvador raised external funds from          Repayment period           16 years, including a
three Multilateral Development Banks: the Inter-American Development Bank                                               six-year grace period
(Program for Equity in Basic Education), the Central American Bank for Economic
                                                                                             Variable Interest Rate     6-month LIBOR
Integration (the CONECTATE Program), and the World Bank (Excellence and                                                 +0.25%. currently at
Innovation in Secondary Education –EXITO– Project).                                                                     5.57%month 

                                                                          return to top      Termination date if not    May 29, 2007
                                                                                             declared effective

 

What is EXITO?

EXITO is a project financed by the World Bank and the Government of El Salvador that seeks to improve secondary enrollment and
completion rates among disadvantaged groups; increase the share of students with intermediate and advanced scores on national exams;
and improve the opportunities and quality of basic education graduates.

The project consists of three inter-related components. The first focuses on improving the quality and relevance of secondary education;
the second component aims at improving education coverage and equity; and the third component seeks to improve effectiveness by
strengthening secondary education management, targeting and assessment.

Component I. Quality, relevance, and competitiveness of secondary education. (US$42.7 million.)

This component seeks to improve the learning environment in poor, marginalized schools and guarantees high integration levels between
vocational secondary education and higher education by developing basic competencies and guidance among low achievers in five core
subjects (Spanish, mathematics, science, social science, and English).

Subcomponents:

       Reinforcement in core subjects
       Relevance of vocational and technological education
       Technology for learning
       Schools’ social environment for learning

Component II. Broad-based coverage (US$36.7 million).
This components aids in the creation of flexible delivery models, such as distance, semi-distance, and accelerated education modalities
for youth who did not complete, or are at risk of not completing, secondary education. It also seeks to address direct costs and
opportunities of completing secondary education by offering scholarships to students from the poorest 40% of the population. In addition,
the project will expand and rehabilitate public infrastructure as needed.

Subcomponents

       Flexible delivery models
       Demand-side strategies
       Improving infrastructure

Component III. Management and assessment for effectiveness.  (US$36.7 million).

This component will reinforce all the project’s interventions by developing solid supervision, assessment, certification, and accreditation
systems, and by improving school management and decentralization.

Subcomponents

       Strengthening assessment, certification, and accreditation systems
       School management and quality supervision

                                                                                                                                return to top  


Project Implementation

In order to carry out each of the aforementioned components, a solid inter-institutional coordination and dialogue has been established
that ensures the fulfillment of project objectives. Additionally, a series of actions are underway to improve project implementation that
target three key principles associated with project components:

       Strengthening the institutional capacities of the Ministry of Education (MOE) for project implementation. The MOE has prepared
       two major implementation studies with World Bank support: an “Institutional Analysis” and an “Institutional Capacity Assessment.”
       The latter study reveals that the MOE has the strategic, operational, administrative, and planning capacities to undergo the
       proposed project.
       Promoting strategic alliances to improve institutional capacity. This principle includes three types of alliances with different
       specialized education organizations or institutions: a) partnerships with high-quality service providers and strategic sectoral reform
       allies (Universidad Centroaméricana José Simeón Cañas -UCA-, Bussiness Foundation for Economic and Social Development -
       FEPADE-, and Centroamerican Technological Institute -ITCA-); b) partnerships to promote the participation of communities and
       service providers for sub-project implementation (largely non-governmental organizations); and c) partnerships for joint
       infrastructure implementation with specialized organizations (Social Investment Fund and Local Development -FISDL-, Salvadoran
       Foundation of Development and Low-Income Housing -FUNDASAL-, and HABITAT.)
       Results-based management with emphasis on monitoring and assessment. This principle refers to the implementation of specific
       guidelines, procedures, instruments and resources to guarantee quality targeting, accreditation, monitoring and assessment, as
       well as the participation of key education stakeholders.

Total project funds are allocated to each component and activity on a funding agency basis, as shown in the figures below:

                            PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT/ACTIVITY               World GOES Total US$
                                                                              Bank      (in millions)
                        ComponentI.Quality, relevance, and competitiveness of secondary education
                        Reinforcement in core subjects                        12.4  1.5     13.9
                        Relevance of technical and technological education    14.8  0.6     15.4
                        Technology for learning                                7.9  0.6      8.5
                        Schools’ social environment for learning               4.9   -       4.9
                                                                     Subtotal 40    2.7     42.7
                        Component II. Broad-based coverage
                        flexible delivery models                              13.6  6.5     20.1
                        demand-side strategies                                 2.8  2.7      5.5
                        improving infrastructure                               11.   -      11.0
                                                                     Subtotal 27.4  9.3     36.7
                        Component III. Management and assessment for effectiveness
                        Strengthening assessment, certification,                       7.2       -         7.2
                        And accreditation systems
                        School management and quality supervision                  6.3           -        6.3
                                                                         Subtotal 13.5           -        13.5
                                                            Project management 3.9               -        3.9
                                                              Initial commission -               -        0.2
                                                            Total funds required 85.0          12.0        97
                                                                       
                                                                       




Finally, follow-up activities are carried out via annual and biannual reports using a statistical database from the ongoing monitoring and
assessment of key subcomponents. This information includes, among others, the early enrollment census, grade nine test scores and
Test of Learnings and Aptitudes for Students of Average Education -PAES-. The responsibility for gathering the information will vary by
subcomponent. Standardized assessments, however, will be mostly led by the Ministry of Education and the UCA (Universidad
Centroaméricana José Simeón Cañas).

                                                                                                                               return to top  


Expected Project Benefits

The World Bank loan seeks to speed up the fulfillment of secondary education development goals. This new project aims at closing the
access and equity gap and delivering secondary education for all Salvadorans. It will also aid in improving the country’s productivity,
international competitiveness, and social development. These goals will be monitored using the following indicators:

       Increase secondary (grades 7-12) completion rates from 34% to 40% among disadvantaged youth 17-25 years old.
       Increase net enrollment rates from 49% to 67% and in grades 7-9 from 28% to 45% in grades 10-11.
       Increase the share of secondary students with intermediate or advanced scores on standardized exams (Spanish and
       mathematics).
       Increase the share of vocational education graduates who continue into tertiary education (referred to as technical or university-
       level studies) from 25% to 30%.

                                                                                                                               return to top  


FAQ

What would happen if World Bank financing is cancelled?
El Salvador would reduce its external funds for secondary education and only resort to its budget funds. However:

       Additional foreign funds would help El Salvador attain its secondary education goals sooner than expected.
       The expedited fulfillment of secondary education goals would contribute to greater poverty reduction.
       Projects receiving external funds focus on monitoring and assessment systems for secondary education programs, which in turn
       improves the monitoring and impact assessment capacities of public investments.

How does the project support the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals?
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), originally created for low-income countries, target Universal Primary Education. El Salvador,
however, is classified as a medium-income country and therefore requires Universal Secondary Education, an MDG+. It is estimated that
World Bank support would help El Salvador to come closer to the MDG+ in five years, by:

       Increasing the share of 13-17 year olds attending secondary school.
       Increasing the share of 17-25 year olds with secondary education.
       Close the gap in access to secondary education between poorer and wealthier families.
       Increase the share of vocational education graduates who continue into tertiary education.

Why is secondary education so critical to El Salvador’s development?
It has been proven that secondary education plays a key role in countries that have made huge steps forward in their economic, political,
and social development. The underlying reasons for this are:

       Secondary education results in a country with a qualified labor force which can absorb modern production technology, provide
       higher value products, and increase wages.
       People with secondary education contribute to their households’ continuing social and economic development, creating a virtuous
       cycle of social wellbeing.
       Populations with the highest average levels of secondary education contribute more to strengthening political systems and
       democracies, as they are informed, critical constituents who demand better public management.

Is the investment in “consulting services” really needed for the EXITO Project?
For all its projects, the World Bank groups all types of professional services under “consulting services,” including technical studies for
project implementation, hiring non-government organizations (NGOs), and training target communities, among others. It is a generic
classification for the professional services needed to implement the project successfully.

Under the EXITO Project, the greatest investment in the “consulting services” category is the purchase of slots / scholarships for students
and teachers through NGOs. Technical assistance, accreditation, evaluation, monitoring, and supervision programs, as well as program
management and student training and youth initiatives are also included under this category.

                                                                                                                                 return to top   

S=Spanish

Contact us for more information

Prepared by: Karla Villanueva
Last updated on March 12, 2007
