Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7713-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
MAY 26, 1989
Asia Country Department IV (India)
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Tirs document has a restidcted distribution and may be used by recipients ody In the performance of
their officld duies. Its contents may not othenvwis. be disclosed without Wodld BDk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -   Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00          -   Paise 100
US$1.00          -   Rs 15.00
Rs 1,000,000     -   US$66,667
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)                     1,000 meters (m) - 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 Meter (m)                      -   39.37 inches (in)
1 Cubic Meter (m3)               -   1.31  cubic yard (cu yd) - 35.35 cu.ft.
1 Thousand Cubic M-ter (MCM)    -   1,000 cubic meters
1 Barrel (Bbl)                   -   0.159 cubic meter
1 Normal Cubic Meter
of Natural Gas (Nm3)          -   37.32 Standard Cubic Feet (SCF)
1 Ton (t)                            1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 lbs
1 Metric Ton of Oil (390 API)   =   7.60  barrels
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)             =   3.97  British Thermal Units (BTU)
1 Kilovolt CkV)                  =   1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA)              1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)                  =   1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1 million watts
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)            =   1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour (MWh)            =   1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)                1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Ton of Oil Equivalent (toe)        10 million kilocalories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSES     -    Bombay Suburban Electricity Supply
CEA      -    Central Electricity Authority
CIL      -    Coal India Limited
CWC      -    Central Water Commission
GOI      -    Government of India
GOM      -    Government of Maharashtra
GOMED    -    Government of Maharashtra Energy Department
GOMID    -    Government of Maharashtra Irrigation Department
IBRD     -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      -    International Development Association
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -    Local Competitive Bidding
MSEB     -    Maharashtra State Electricity Board
MIS      -    Management Information Systems
NHPC     -    National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
NTPC     -    National Thermal Power Corporation
PFC      -    Power Finance Corporation
REC      -    Rural Electrification Corporation
REB      -    Regional Electricity Board
ROR      -    Rate of Return
SEB      -    State Electricity Board
TEC      -    Tata Electric Companies
WREB     -    Western Region Electricity Board
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
HAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary .................................. i-iii
I.    SECTORAL CONTEXT ..........................................                  1
Overview .............................................                 1
India's Commercial Energy Resources .............. .     . ...        2
Electricity Supply and Demand ........................                 3
Organization of the Power Sector .....................                 4
Financial Performance and Tariffs ....................                 6
Power Sector Planning ................................                 8
Entities' Management and Operations ....              ..............   9
GOI's Strategy in the Power Sector ...................    10
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector ....             ..........    12
Bank Group Participationi .............................              14
II.  THE BENEFICIARIES ..........................................    16
Introduction ..........................................    16
A. Government of Maharashtra Irrigation Department ....    16
Organization and Technical Capabilities ........    16
Project Accounts and Audit .....................    17
B. Maharashtra State Electricity Board ................    17
Introduction ...................................    17
Organization ...................................    19
Operation and Maintenance ......................    19
Tariffs ......      .     .........................    20
Personnel and Staffing .........................    21
Training .......................................    21
Corporate Planning .............................    22
Financial Planning .............................    22
Financial Organization and Accounting ..........    22
External Audit .................................    23
Int2rnal Audit .................................    23
Consumers Billing ..............................    24
Management Information System and
Data Processing ..............................    24
Tax Regime ....................................    25
Insurance ......................................    25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission. to India in
January/February 1989. Mission members were Messrs. A. Covindassamy
(Senior Financial Analyst), A. Sanchez (Principal Engineer),
M. Tomlinson (Economist), B. Trembath (Power Engineer), B. Partridge
(Environment Specialist), G. Dunnion (Consultant), and J. Niessen
(Consultant Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Page No.
III. THE PROJEC'...25
III~~~.  TEPRJ ........................... I ............................2
Project Satting                        ...   25
Project bjectivee ....                                               27
Project Description. ....         ... . ...          .     .27
Project Engineering .           ......................... ......     28
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule .3
Water Rights ..      .       .......................................    31
Resettlement and Land Acquisition                 ...    31
Environmental Aspects                      . . .    32
Project Costs                 ...34
Project Financing.                                .          .   35
On-Lending Arrangements ..... . .. ...... . .                        36
Procurement                  ...36
Disbursements                         ...   37
Project Operation                 .....38
Project Monitoring .... .. . .38
Project Risks...                                                     39
IV. FINANCE .40
A. Introduction .40
B. Historical Performance .41
C. Future Financial Situation & Performance Targets                  43
Profitability and Crediworthiness: .                         44
Indebtedness and Capital Structure .46
Capital Investment Plan .47
Working Capital ........... .    ...................    47
Investment Financing Policy .48
State Government Transfers .49
V.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS..  ..........................    50
Electricity Demand In The Western Region   .             .50
Lease-Cost Analysis. ...............          .       .50
Progtwa and Project Analyses   .                 .51
Program and Project Costs              ..51
Program and Project Benefits ..52
Economic Rate of Retur                   . .53
Program ..53
Project    .......53
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMENDATION                   .         .                   54
Agreements Reached During Negotiations  . .54
Rcommendation...                                                     56



-iii-
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.1   All-India: Electricity Supply and Demand ..................    57
1.2   Maharashtra: Electricity Supply and Deman             .59
1.3   Previous Loar.s and Credits to
Indian Power Sector (January 31, 1989) .61
2.1   Performance Indicators, India and Selected
Asian Countries. 1981 .62
2.2   A Comparison of the Performance of MSEB and
Other SEBs, 1987 .63
2.3   Action Plan tor Managerial Development .64
2.4   MSEB's Head Office Staff Set-up as on March 31, 1988 .87
2.5 Summary of MSEB's Tariff .88
2.6   MSEB's Workforce (as of March 31, 1988) .91
2.7   MSEB's Training Program 1986187 and 1987/88 .92
3.1   Detailed Project Description ....... .   .....................    93
3.2   Construction Schedule for Koyna IV Power Plant ............   105
3.3 Project Detailed Cost Table .106
3.4 PrGcurement Arrangements .113
3.5   Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts .115
3.6   ;chedule of Estimated Disbursements .117
3.7   Terms of Referenr.e for Panel of Experts
for the Koyna TV Hydroelectric Power Plant .118
3.8   Suggested Terms of Reference for Engineering
Consultancy Services for Koyna IV .120
3.9   Suggested Terms of Reference for Consultancy
Services for Dam Repair Work ............................   123
3.10  Proposed Terms of Reference for Studies of Load Dispatch
a:xd Interstate Power Trading in the Western Region .            125
3.31  Details to be Included in Annual Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Plans .         ..                                127
3.12  Organization for Design and Construction .................   128
3.13 Layout of Koyna Complex .129
4.1 MSEB - General Parameters ..130
4.2  Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets .132
4.3   Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of
Funds Statements .133
4.4 Financial Action Plan .134
4.5   Assumptions Followed fe  Financial Projections .136
4.6 Financial Indicators .140
4.7 MSEB's Investment Plan .141
4.8 Financing of Investment... .                                          143
4.9 Working Capital Schedule .144
4.10  Transfers from and to the Government .145
4.11  Unit Costs of Sales and Productivity..                              146
5.1   Economic Analysisn        a      l      y     s      is....         147
6.1   Related Documer,ts in the Project File..    169
MAPS:  IBRD 21492 and 21493



-1-
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJ!CT
Loan and Pro1ect Sumary
Borrower        s  India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries   a  1) Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB), and
2) Government of Maharashtra Irrigation Department (GOMID)
Amount           s  US$400 million equivalent
Terms           s  Twenty years, including e 5-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms s  Government of India (GOI) to Government of Maharashtra
(GOM): about US$400 million equivalent as part of Central
Government assistance to Maharashtra for development
projects on terms and conditions applicable at the time,
of which US$230 million equivalent will be retained by GOM
for the Koyna IV project omponent, and US$170 million
onlent to Maharashtra State Electricity Board for the
project transmission and distribution component.
GOM to Maharashtra State Electricity Board: US$170 million
equivalent for the project transmissior and distribution
component, with repayment over 20 year  including 5 years
grace period at GOM's interest rate applicable at the time
of its lending to MSEB (but not less than 9X per annum).
GOI would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risk.
Project
DescriDtion     s  The main objective of the Project is to improve power
supply and operating efficiency in MSEB and in the Western
Region power system through: (a) expanding regional
peaking capacity at least cost; (b) improving utilization
of existing generating capacity; (c) strengthening and
upgrading MSEB's transmission and distribution system; (d)
recommending ways to improve load dispatch in the Western
Region and rationalize bulk power regional trading; (e)
improving MSEBs retail tariff structure; (f)
strengthenin' MSEB's finances; and (g) introducing
institutional improvements to MSEB. The Project would
include: (i) construction of a 1000 MV fourth-stage of the
Koyna hydroelectric power plant; (ii) inspection and
repairs, as needed, of the existing Koyna dam; (iii)
supply and erection of equipment and material for MSEB's
five-year transmission and distribution investment
program, and strengthening of MSEB capabilities for
planning of distribution systems; (iv) implementation of
plans to strengthen MSEB finances, management and



-ii-
operations; and (v) consultancy and training services, as
well as computer hardware and software required to
implement the project.
Benefits
and Risks:          Through the Project, the Bank will be supporting GOI's
effort to: (a) alleviate power shortages in the Western
Region and to meet future demand in Maharashtra by
exploiting indigenous hydro resources; (b) improve the
reliability of supply and reduce system losses in
Maharashtra and in the Western Region; (c) improve the
planning capability of MSEB; and (d) strengthen MSEB's
finances and management. The proposed Koyna IV scheme
presents the usual risks associated with major uiderground
works, such as unexpected geological conditions that may
adversely affect project cost and construction schedule.
However, the geological exploration orogram carried out
thus far, and the excavation works carried out for the
neighboring stages I to III, which are also underground,
indicate that the geological setting is adequate for the
proposed works, and that risks are acceptably low. In
addition, external consultancy expertise is being provided
under the proposed Project to assist GOIaD during pro4ict
construction. The Transmission and Distribution
components do not present any extraordinary risks.
Project Costs:                                  Local       Foreign      Total
---(US$ Million)--------
A. Koyna IV Power Station       156.3         166.0       32z.3
B. MSEB's Investment
Program                      248.7         243.7       492.4
Total Base Costs                405.0         409.7       814.7
Physical Contingencies           47.1          45.0        92.1
Price Contingencies              86.1          85.9       172.0
Total Project Costs             538.2         540.6     1,078.8
Interest During
Construction                  197.2          67.8       265.0
Total Financing Required        735.4         608.4     1,343.8
_____~~~~~~~~-        =-   XD  _



-iil-
Financing Plan:                                 Local        Foreign       Total
-------(US$ Million)------
IBRD                                      400            400
Cofinanciers                               150           150
GOI/GOM/MSEB                 736            58           794
Total                        736           608         1,344
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY      1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Annual       1.1      38.5    71.4    75.0    75.6    82.4    34.8    15.1        6.1
Cumulative   1.1      39.6   111.0   186.0   261.6   344.0   378.8   393.9   400.0
Economic Rate of Return: 14.0! (for the Western Region development program)



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. Sectoral Context
Overview
1.01     India's power systems presently have an installed capacity of
nearly 54,000 MW and provided about 189,000 G'Wh of energy in FY 1987/88,
making them comparable in size to the power sectors of France and the U.K.
and to the combined power sectors of all the countries of Sub-Saharan
Africa.  However, despite impressive progress in expand.ng supply over the
last few years (installed capacity has increased from 32,000 MW in 1981/82
and energy availability from 114,000 GWh) shortages persist equivalent tc
about 202 of maximum power demand and 102 of total energy demand. The
quality of electricity supplies also remains mostly unsatisfactory. To
meet a higher proportion of demand, improve the quality of sipplies and
further extend rural electrification, GOI plans to install .-n additional
80,000 MW of capacity by the turn of the century. This wou-d cost about
US$150 billion at present prices and claim between 25? and 30? of total
allocations under the Eighth and Ninth Plans (compared with about 20? under
the Seventh Plan). Implementing such a large program of investments would
add sharp pressures to government finances and pose considerable managerial
and technical challenges for sector entities. Currently, the Bank finances
about 5? of the sector's investments.
1.02     In addition to substantially expanding supply, the sector is now
making encouraging efficiency gains through improving the utilization of
existing assets. For example, plant load factor averaged 52Z in 1987/88
compared with only 42? in 1980/81. Each 1 kW of generating capacity
therefore aow provides 880 kWh more electricity annually than in 1980/81.
Similarly, the rate of fuel consumption by thermal stations has been cut
about 102 since 1979/80. ITt row requizes only 720 tons of coal to generate
1 GWh, whereas in 1979/80 802 tons of coal (of equivalent quality) were
required. For the sector as a who_c, this improvement represents an annual
saving of approximately 12 million tons of coal, viz. 8? of annual coal
consumption in power plants. The improvements in power stations' load
factors and fuel consumption reflect healthy improvements in maintenance
and operations management. The improvements are all the more commendable
in view of the deteriorating quality of coal the sector has had to contend
with. A significant institutional development has been that the number of
employees per thousand consumers has been cut 34? from 28.7 per thousand in
1980/81 to 19.0 per thousand at present. Sector efficiency has also been
improved, though more modestly, through improvements in tariff levels
relative to economic supply costs (para 1.20). Since 1981/82, tariffs have
increased in real terms by an average 5? per annum. Tariffs to industrial
and commercial consumers (over 60? of total consumption) now are
approximately 802 of marginal cost and continue to improve. The weakesa
element of retail power tariffs are charges to agriculture, which continue
to be heavily subsidized.



-2-
1.03     Despite these gains, India's power utilities for the most part
remain relatively inefficient. Key constraints are the divided
responsibility (between GOI and the States) for power development,
political interference in the operations of the State Electricity Boards
(SEBs) and weaknesses in the financial structure of the sector, which
undermine financial performance and hold down resource mobilization. The
effects of these constraints are that India's power systems deliver to
consumers less power and of a poorer quality than they should be able to,
and at a higher cost. The costs to the econimy of shortages and poor
quality supplies are magnified by remaining inefficiencies in end-use of
electricity - the result mostly of insufficient comsercial incentives in
many markets and   bsidized power prices to low voltage consumers,
particularly agriculture. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) is
the one notable exception in this picture. NTPC, which now provides about
12Z of SEBs' bulk electricity supplies, has emerged from its first ten
years as a utility which is efficient by international standards. In
1987/88, NTPC earned a return on assets (most less than five years old) of
16.8Z.
1.04     GOI is aware of present inefficiencies, their causes and the
likely repercussions on future sector development. Under the Seventh Plan,
there have been encouraging signs of a strengthening resolve to address
constraints in a substantive way. GOI has mounted initiatives to bring
financial discipline to the SEBs (para 1.17) and has accelerated
developnent of the relatively efficient central utilities, particularly
NTPC. GOI also has formed the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) to mobilize
additional resources for SEBs willing to make needed institutional reforms.
In addition, GOI is reviewing its policy on private sector involvement in
power supply and aims to ease regulatory and financial disincentives to
private sector participation (para 1.17). Finally, GOI is also reviewing
its fuel supply policy for the sector. As well as considering several fuel
import options, GOI has deci, 'd to sanction more domestic natural gas for
power generations 8,000 K.    gas-fired plant will be added under the
Eighth Plan. The principa,. Ahallenge facing GOI under the Eighth Plan is
to improve the balance in sector development between expansion and
efficiency improvement. Central to achieving this will be to ensure that
utilities' institutional development keeps pace with their physical
expansion. To help meet the sector's enormous investment requirements, GOI
must also realize more of the sector's potential to mobilize resources.
India's Commercial Energy Resources
1.05     India's commercial energy resources comprise coal, oil, gas,
hydroelectricity and nuclear energy. Of the non-renewable resources, coal
is the most abundant. Reserves of thermal coal have been estimated at over
125 billion tons and 60 billion tons are considered economically
recoverable. However, coal quality generally is poor and is getting worse.
Ash contents are up to 50, which increases power station capital and
operating costs and exacerbates problems of coal transport. GOI's emphasis
on development of pithead statians eases transport problems, but does not
reduce the other costs associated with poor coal quality. Further pithead
development will be increasingly constrained by pollution concerns and
water availability. These difficulties, together with high production



-3-
costs and high transportation costs have raised questions concerning the
continued competitiveness of India's coal industry. Recently, GOI has
begun to give consideration to imports of coal, which probably would be
economic at coastal and some inland locations.
1.06     India's proven and probable oil and gas reserves are estimated at
580 million tons oil equivalent (mtoe), sufficieit for only 20 years supply
at present rates of consumption. Domestic oil production, which currently
provides about two-thirds of India's requirements, is peaking. Oil imports
consequently are expected to rise over the next few years, even though
natural gas may be able to substitute for a part of future oil consumption.
In the past, GOI limited natural gas to premium markets, such as petro-
chemicals and fertilizer. However, with growing estimates of reserves
(currently 360 mtoe) and the recent completion of a large gas pipeline, gas
is now becoming an important fuel for power generation. Oil products
continue to have limited use in thermal power generation, being confined
primarily to stabilizing combustion in coal-fired power stations and to
fuelling captive generating plant.
1.07     India's hydroelectric potential is equivalent to about 100,000 MW.
At present only 16,000 MW have been developed and 4,700 14W are under
construction. Schemes to add a further 23,000 MW are at various stages of
planning. The pace of India's hydroelectric development has slowed over
the past decade. Under the Sixth Plan, hydro stations provided 342 of new
capacity, whereas under the Seventh Plan hydro will provide only 30? of new
capacity. GOI is striving to reverse this decline in view of the prominent
role of hydro schemes in regional least-cost power development. Progress
to date, however, has been comparatively slow. Key difficulties have been
inadequate financial resources in states with the greatest hydro potential,
lengthy disputes over water rights and environmental issues, and the
limited technical rescarces available for the preparation of large hydro
projects.
1.M1    India's uranium reserves could support a modest nuclear program
(8,000 - 10,000 MW). Currently, India's nuclear power generating capacity
is 1,230 MW.
Electricity SuPpiy and Demand
1.09     In 1987/88, utilities' power generation 1/ was 189,000 GWh from an
installed capacity of 54,000 MW (Annex 1.1).  Almost 602 of generation was
from coal, 352 was hydroelectricity and the balance was generation from
oil, nuclear energy, and natural gas. Deteriorating coal quality has
increased the sector's own power consumption to about 102 of gross
generation. Also, rapid expansion of rural electrification and inadequate
investment in transmission and distribution have increased system losses to
more than 22Z of gross generation. The Bank has stressed the importance of
proper balance in system development between system expansion and
reinforcement of existing facilities and will continue to support
transmission and distribution investments designed to reduce system losses
and improve service quality.
1/ Net of consumption by power stations.



-4-
1.10     Electricity consumption has been growing at approximately twice as
fast as total commercial energy consumption and electricity now accounts
for more than 30Z of India's total commercial energy consumption.  Between
1981/82 and 1987/88, electricity consumption increased at 8.92 per annum in
terms of energy consumed and 7.62 per annum in terms of the maximum load
met (Annex 1.1). Principal consumption shares in 1987/88 were: industrial,
551; agricultural, 181; domestic, 14Z; and commercial, 82.  As energy
consumption and the maximum load met have both been constrained by supply
capacity, energy and power demands probably have been increasing more
quickly than reflected through consumption data. CEA estimates that
present shortages are about 21,000 GWh (about 102 of energy demand) and
8,400 MW (about 21Z of the maximum load met). CEA projects that both
energ7 demand and maximum power demand will grow at approximately 92 per
annum through 1999/2000 and that demand will continue to be supply-
constrained (Annex 1.1), although to a lesser extent than at present.
Increases in demand are expected to bp led by domestic and agricultural
consumers; the shares of consumption by industry and commercial consumers
are both expected to fall slightly (Annex 1.1). Continued increases in
real retail electricity tariffs (which averaged 51 per annum between
1980/81 and 1987/88) may slow the pace of demand growth and ease pressure
on supplies.   However, this relief will be mitigated by the relative ease
with which industrial and commercial consumers can pass tariff increases
through to customers. Agriculture's consumption share is expected to
continue to grow steadily through continued subsidization and further rural
electrification.
1.11     Between 1981/82 and 1987/88, electricity consumption in
Maharashtra increased at 8.8Z per annum in terms of energy consumed and
7.72 per annum in terms of the maximum load met (Annex 1.2). Principal
consumption shares in Maharashtra in 1987/88 were: industrial 522,
agricultural 19Z, domestic 16Z, and commercial 72. As in the case of
national consumption, energy consumption in Maharashtra and the maximum
load met have both been constrained by inadequate supply capacity: CEA
estimates that at present, unserved demand is equivalent to approximately
14Z of the maximum load met and 2Z of energy consumption. However, CEA
projects that through 1999/2000, maximum load in Maharashtra will increase
more slowly than in the past (6.92 per annum), while maximum generating
capability will increase relatively more quickly. Together, CZA expects
that by 1999/2000, these effects will close Maharashtra's power deficit to
the equivalent of about 61 of the maximum load met. Increases in
Maharashtra's energy generating capability are projected to keep pace with
increases in energy demand. Demand increases in Maharashtra are expected
to follow the national pattern, with strongest growth in domestic and
agricultural consumption (both expected to average about 10.7Z per annum)
and declining shares of industrial and commercial consumption (Annex 1.2).
Organization of the Power Sector
1.12     Responsibility for electricity supply is shared between GOT and
the States. GOl controls CEA, NTPC, NHPC, the Rural Electrification
Corporation (REC), and (through CEA) the Regional Electricity Boards
(REBs). The States control the SEBs and the day-to-day oNerations of the
REBs   CEA is part of the Department of Power within the Ministry of
Energy.  NTPC, NHPC and REC are public corporations reporting to the



-5-
Department of Power. SEBs were instituted under the Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948, to promote power development and to regulate private licensees,
such as the Tata Electric Companies. Although SEBs are supposed to be
autonomous, in practice they are under the control of state governments in
such matters as capital investment, tariffs, borrowings, and salary and
personnel policies. As a first step towards integrating power supply
nationally, SEBs have been grouped into five regional systems, each
coordinated by an REB. Activities coordinated regionally include states'
generation schedules and overhaul and maintenance programs, power transfers
and concomitant tariffs.
1.13     Public Utilities.  CEA was created in 1950 to develop a national
power policy and to coordinate power utilities. It is responsible for
vetting investment proposals, providing consulting support to SEBs,
promoting integration of regional power systems, training sector personnel,
and research and development. Unfortunately, CEA's effectiveness has been
limited severely by shortages of skilled staff and other resources.
Recently, GOI formed the Power Finance Corporation (PFC). PFC's functions
are to mobilize additional resources for sector development and to pursue
institutional reform of sector entities, particularly the SEBs. The
Corporation's lending operations are focussing on completing priority
rehabilitation and distribution projects being implemented by SEBs.
1.14     NTPC and NHPC were formed in 1975 to construct and operate large
power stations and transmission facilities and to sell bulk power to the
SEBs. NTPC has grown rapidly and now provides about 122 of India's total
power supplies. In the process it has established a proven track record
for implementing major projects and has gained a reputation for being
efficient. NTPC also enjoys a strong financial position (para 1.18).
NHPC, ostensibly established to promote the development of India's hydro
potential, has not yet enjoyed the same success and is developing
relatively slowly. Principally this is because States control water rights
and are reluctant to relinquish hydro projects to NHPC. REC was formed in
1969 to coordinate rural electrification and provide financial and
technical expertise for SEB schemes. REC finances more than 70Z of rural
electrification investments, but has proved a relatively weak institution
in its technical and financial operations. At present, there is no
organization with responaibility for developing a natioral transmission
grid, although GOI is contemplating the formation of such a utility.
1.15     Private Utilities.  Private utilities at present make only a
matrginal contribution to public electricity supply, though private captive
generation is extensive (equivalent to about 152 of public supply).
However, GOI is attempting to increase private participation in power
supply to mobilize additional resources for the sector and to secure the
potential efficiency gains. To this end, GOI has a White Paper on private
utilities under final review which aims to ease regulatory and financial
disincentives to private investment in the sector.



-6-
1.16     In Maharashtra, already home to twe of India's four private
utilities, 21 a significant expansion of private involvement in power
supply is likely over the next few years. TEC is seeking to install
additional gas-fired capacity and to improve the utilization of an existing
hydro station through its conversion to a pumped-storage scheme. BSES,
hitherto an efficiently-run distribution utility, has proposed expanding
its involvement in the sector through a thermal generation project. In
addition, the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) is actively seeking proposals
from the private sector regarding projects to be constructed during the
Eighth Plan. As well as seeking to mobilize additional resources for the
sector, GOM is considering innovative project implementation arrangements,
such as build-operate-turnover (BOT) schemes to ease pressure on technical
resources available in MSEB and GOM.
Financial Performance and Tariffs
1.17     In 1986/87, only 2 SEBs made a profit (MSEB and Orissa SEB).  SEbs
as a whole incurred a combined loss before subsidies of approximately
Rs 15,800 million (US$ 1,190 million). This corresponds to a return on net
fixed assets at historic cost of 3.52 before interest, and -9.32 after
interest. SEBs' investment self-financing rate, which was equivalent to
only 2.02 of capital expenditure, was correspondingly low. Partly, the
poor results reflect that almost all SEBs' capital expenditures are
financed by debt. As a first step in improving SEBs' finances, GOT has
amended the Electricity (Supply) Act to require SEBs to earn a minimum rate
of return of 32 on net assets at historic cost after meeting operating
expenses, taxes. depreciation and interest. 3/ The Bank supports GOI's
initiative and has changed the form of its financial covenants accordingly.
In terms of the Bank's conventional method of calculation, the 3Y minimum
return corresponds to a return on assets valued at historic cost of
approximately 6 to 8 and a return on revalued assets of 42 to 6Z.
Although modest, this target nevertheless represents a substantial
improvement on existing performance. Many SEBs, particularly those of the
poorer states, are experiencing considerable difficulty achieving even this
level of performance.  To stimulate private sector interest in power
supply, a second initiative under consideration by GOI is to increase from
121 to 152 returns on paid-in capit'l that private power utilities are
permitted to earn.
1.18     The financial performance of NTPC and NHPC is considerably
stronger than that of the SEBs, though not wholly satisfactory. In
1987/88, NTPC earned a return on net assets (most less than five years old)
before interest of 16.8Z. NHPC earned a return before interest of 12.52.
However, NTPC's cash flow after debt service and working capital financing
in 1987/88 was equivalent to only 82 of investment expenditures and that of
NHPC to only 12 of investment expenditures. These modest contributions
reflect both the size of the Corporations' revenue bases relative to their
2/ Tata Electric Companies (TEC), a private generatiun and bulk supply
utility, is based in Bombay. Bombay Suburban Electricity Supply
(BSES), a private distribution utility, provides supply to final
consumers in the Bombay metro area. The other private utilities
operate in Ahmedabad and Calcutta.
3/ GOI does not accept the principle of revaluation of assets.



-7-
investment programs (which have increased substantially) and their supply
contracts with SEBs, which include a fixed price for five years. Cash flow
will improve significantly over the next few years as many projects
currently under construction are brought into service. Unfertunately, both
Corporations are presently also carrying high accounts receivables: NTPC
has the equivalent of 3.8 months billings outstanding and NEPC has
11 months billings outstanding. GOI is in the process of devising an
action plan to reduce NTPC's receivables to the equivalent of 2 months
billings, as covenanted uider existing Bank loans. The forthcoming
Northern Region Transmission Project will include a similar plan to reduce
NHPC's receivables, and the proposed project includes a reduction in MSEB's
payables (para 4.18).
1.19     In lending to individual SEBs, the Bank will continue to press for
state-specific programs '.o improve resource mobilization, for example,
through agreed financial programs capable, as a minimum, of achieving the
3Z rate of return specified in the Act.  Where higher returns are required,
as was the case in the recent Nathpa Jhakri Power Project and in the
proposed project (para 4.15), the Bank will press state governments to use
their discretion under the Act to require a higher rate of return.
1.20     In general, SEBs' tariffs do not cover the long run marginal cost
of supply (LRMC). Moreover, there are sharp differences in the structure
of electricity tariffs with industrial tariffs at or above LRMC, and
agricultural tariffs heavily subsidized. The average level of SEBs'
tariffs is estimated at approximately 60-70% of long run marginal cost
which represents an improvement from about 50% of LRHC in 1981 following
real tariff increases which have averaged 5Z per annum. In Maharashtra,
the average level of retail tariffs is one of the highest in India and is
estimated to be 74Z of marginal cost (para 2.15). The level of SEBs'
tariffs relative to LRMC will continue to improve as rates are increased to
meet at least GOI's minimum rate of return target. However, the structure
of tariffs remains unsatisfactory. Tariffs do not distinguish between the
costs of supplying peak as opposed to off-peak energy, frequently are
excessively complex and invariably heavily cross-subsidize low voltage
consumers. Despite GOI accepting the principle in both its Sixth and
Seventh Plans that energy prices should "reflect true costs', social and
agricultural objectives have sharply limited progress towards this
objective. Moreover, very little has so far been done to improve tariff
structures through tapping the considerable potential for consumer load
management. To impress an GOI, the States and SEBs the full costs of
cross-subsidization, the Bank will continue to require tariff studies in
parallel with lending operations. One such study currently is being
undertaken by MSEB (para 2.17), and others are underway in Kerala and
Karnataka. These studies will be used to design tariff reform programs for
impl6mentation in parallel with the project concerned. The proposed
Maharashtra Power Project includes a component which will help MSEB
implement tariff reforms in Maharashtra. Most probably, these will include
the introduction of peak and off-peak retail tariffs and the launching of
additional load management initiatives (para 2.17). Notwithstanding these
efforts, resistance to economic power pricing in India, at least for some
categories of consumers, is such that progress in pricing reform with the
SEBs is likely to be slow.



-8-
1.21     The tariffs of NTPC and NHPC have several shortcomings, notably
that they are based on average generation costs and do not distinguish
between supply costs in peak and off-peak periods. Recently. GOI has
established a committee to recommend the principles on which both NTPC and
NHPC should set their tariffs. It is widely expected that the committee
will recommend a tariff structure more closely aligned to the structure of
the Corporati3ns' fixed and variable costs. This would be an important
step towards ensuring that NTPC's and NHPC's stations are utilised as
efficiently as possible, and towards more closely integrating operations of
the regional grids (para 1.25). The forthcoming Bank operations with NTPC
and NHPC will include components to assist each Corporation to restructure
t',eir tariffs.
Power Sector Planning
1.22     The Bank has consistently encouraged GOI to pursue integrated
power system planning and to operate India's regional grids in an
integrated way. In response, GOI has prepared regional least-cost
generation development plans and recently has prepared a National
Transmission Plan. Although these plans are important steps towards
integrated planning, they need further refinement and regular updating.
1.23     Disparities between regional generation development plans,
national Five-Year Plans and SEBs' capital budgets have been substantial.
Fewer projects have been included in Five-Year Plans than in regional
development plans owing to a lack of resources. In addition, inadequate
provisions for cost escalation and inadequate implementation planning have
led to still fewer projects being executed. The resulting power deficits
have undermined long-term least-cost planning by necessitating rapid
expansion of short gestation generating capacity. The deficits have also
stimulated investment in captive generating plant. Usually, this is
economically less efficient than public electricity supply, in part because
of the dependence of captive plant upon high value petroleum products.
1.24     The Bank is continuing to stress the importance of further
strengthening sector investment planning. For Bank project appraisals,
analyses undertaken by CEA (in collaboration with the Bank) go well beyond
CEA's traditional,appraisals (Annex 5.1, para 5). These analyses are
exposing CEA to the more rigorous planning techniques employed by power
utilities outside India. For both generation and transmission planning.
the results have been a gradual improvement in the quality of CEA's project
appraisals and (often substantial) economies in the technical design of
particular projects. Scope remains for further improvement, but the Bank's
involvement with CEA is helping India to improve the economic efficiency of
power sector planning. In parallel with this, the Bank is continuing to
stress to GOI the importance of integrating pricing with planning and of
easing pressure on supplies through extending load management. Economic
sector work being und2rtaken in FY 1989/90 4/ will include comprehensive
reviews of sector planning, power pricing and load management potential,
and environmental aspects of power development to identify practical ways
the efficiency of sector planning can be enhanced.
4/ A study entitled 'Long Term Issues Facing The Power Sector' is expected
to completed in December, 1989.



-9-
1.25     To complement CEA's regional planning, the Bank is emphasizing the
need to operate each regional power system in an integrated way. At
present, only the Northern Region is approaching this. In the other
Regions, SEBs operate largely independently and most of the economies
available through diversity in the timing of states' peak demands are not
yet being realised. To facilitate regional operations, GOI is encouraging
states to reach the necessary agreements on technical operating parameters.
However, progress is likely to be slow so long as severe power shortages
exist. To improve the coordination of operations in the Western Region,
the Bank and CEA have agreed upon a program of work to be undertaken in
parallel with the proposed project that will identify opportunities for
economic load dispatch in the Region and rationalize interstate power
tradinj (para 3.02). Similar initiatives are planned in the Northern and
Eastern Regions in parallel with the forthcoming operations with NHPC and
NTPC. Even if generation operations become coordinated within Regions,
national coordination will be very difficult without extensive direct
current transmission facilities to overcome problems of frequency control.
The first such facility, a link between Northern and Western Regions, is a
component rf the Central Power Transmission Project.
Entities' Mlanagement and Operations
1.26     Institutional and financial evolution of the sector has not kept
pace with the tremendous physical growth of India's power systems. The
structure and capabilities of sector entities require strengthening and the
roles of some entities and the services they provide (principally CEA and
CWC) need refocutsing. Compared with the relatively efficient management
and operations of NTPC, the capabilities of central agencies and most SEBs
are extremely weak. However, even the institutional and financial
capabilities of NTPC are straining under the pressures of managing the
Corporation's rapid growth. Most SEBs have adequately qualified
engineering staff but lack experienced persounel for financial planning and
control. Unfortunately, significant pay differentials between the public
and private sectors make it difficult for SEBs to recruit and retain the
necessary staff. Overstaffing also remains a problem, though SEBs have
made significant progress on this over the last few years: since 1980/81,
the number of staff per thousand consumers has been cut 34Z (para 1.02).
(MSEB's ratio of 17.5 staff per thousand consumers compares favourably with
the national average of 19.0). SEBs' management practices also are often
outmoded and inadequate. For example, the accounts of some SEBs are still
maintained principally to track cash receipts and expenditures. (The
uniform system of commercial accounting mandated through the 1985 amendment
of the Electricity (Supply) Act is being implemented, but only slowly).
And in SEBs which have implemented commercial accounting (such as MSEB),
there is still too little use of accounting information for managerial
purposes.
1.27     Institutional reform is a principal objective of the Bank's
strategy in India's power sector (para 1.34). Consequently, the Bank is
limiting its direct operations with SEBs to those Boards which, together
with their state governments, are committed to institutional reform. Under
the proposed project, MSEB would launch initiatives to streamline
management through reorganizations in key areas and strengthen its



-10-
management information systems (para 2.12). In addition to specific
project components aimed at institutional strengthening, the Bank will
continue to support ad-hoc initiatives which aim to improve understanding
of the factors underlying SEBs' poor financial performance and to identify
ways constraints can be eased. One such recent initiative has been the
workshop on SEBs' finances, run in conjunction with PFC in February, 1989.
1.28     The operations of many SEBs continue to be hampered by the poor
condition of their plant and equipment. Nevertheless, there have been
significant improvements in plant utilization. Despite deteriorating coal
quality, plant load factors have increased ten percentage points since
1980/81 and the rate of fuel consumption has been cut by 102 since 1979180
(para 1.02). The poor condition of plant can principally be attributed to
persistent capacity shortages, which have obliged SEBs to operate plant
through normal maintenance periods. However, poor plant condition also
reflects manufacturing deficiencies and the difficulties of obtaining spare
parts in a timely manner. In general, these problems have been recognized
by the relevant authorities and corrective steps are being taken. Under
the proposed project, MSEB will take actions to strengthen its maintenance
of installations and will establish an operation and maintenance unit
(para 2.14). Also, through its program of sector work, 5/ the Bank is
seeking to identify generic causes of recurring technical problems and to
recommend solutions that could be implemented in parallel with future
lending operations. Distribution systems also mostly are in poor
condition, reflecting inadequate maintenance, overloading owing to
inadequate investment and equipment deficiencies. Rehabilitation,
particularly of thermal plant and distribution systems, is a most cost-
effective way to improve efficiency and augment system capacity. Recently,
GOI has initiated a program to rehabilitate 30 thermal power stations.
However, because of the divided responsibility for sector development (para
1.12), GOI is less able to effect improvements in distribution. Wherever
appropriate, the Bank will continue to include rehabilitation components
under its loans. The proposed project includes a time-slice of MSEB's
investments in transmission and distribution, the balance of which, as
between rehabilitation and extension, has been agreed with. the Bank
(paras 3.09 and 3.11).
GOI's Strategy in the Power Sector
1.29     The Five-Year Plan constitutes the only formal statement of
India's energy and power policies. Separate formalization of India's power
policy is made difficult by the constitutional arrangement whereby
responsibility for the sector is shared between GOI and the States. While
the Eighth Plan has yet to be finalized, preliminary indications suggest
there will be little change in energy and power objectives from those
reflected in the Seventh Plan. PrincipaL objectives are likely to remain
to: (a) develop energy supplies at a rate commensurate with economic growth
and social needs; (b) substitute indigenous energy resources for imported
fuels wherever this is economically feasible; and (c) encourage rational
and efficient energy use. India's power policies are governed by
essentially the same objectives, although alleviation of India's acute
5/ Specifically, the Power System Efficiency Study, which will be
completed in June, 1989.



-11-
power shortages most probably will continue to dominate GOI's short-term
strategy. Over the longer term, achievement of least-cost development
assumes greater importance.
1.30     Recent GOI initiatives (its establishment of PFC and attempts at
improving SEBs' financial performance and at stimulating private sector
participation in power supply) are encouraging signs that the Eighth Plan
will focus more sharply on tackling root causes of sector inefficiencies.
Specific power policy objectives for the Eighth Plan will likely be to:
(a) rehabilitate thermal plant (para 1.28);
(b) accelerate implementation of ongoing projects - GOI has
created a ministry to improve implementation of public sector
projects; also, lending by PFC will aim to accelerate
rehabilitation and distribution projects (para 1.13);
(c) be more supportive of private sector participation in power
supply (para 1.15);
(d) permit the construction of shorter gestation gas or oil-fired
plants (para 1.04); and
'e) improve the quality and reliability of coal supplies to power
stations (para 1.05).
1.31     GOI's long-term strategy for power sector development comprises a
blend of policies to address investment, organizational, institutional and
financial issues. Regarding investment, the Eighth Plan objectives will
likely be to:
(a) accelerate hydro development (para 1.07);
(b) increase investment in transmission and distribution relative
to investment in generation (para 1.09);
(c) extend coal beneficiation to improve both quality and
homogeneity of supplies to power stations (para 1.05);
(d) diversify coal transport, for example, through the
introduction of coastal shipping (para 1.05);
(e) diversify the fuels used for power generation; GOI recognizes
that gas has an economic role to play; also that imported
coal may be economic at some locations (paras 1.04 and 1.06);
and
(f) continue steady development of nuclear power (para 1.08).
1.32     Long-term organizational, institutional and financial issues are
more controversial and GOI still needs clearly defined strategies in these
areas. GOI recognizes the institutional and financial weakness of the
SEBs, but is heavily constrained in its ability to effect improvements



-12-
unilaterally (para 1.12). Initiatives GOI is likely to pursue urder the
Eighth Plan vill be tot
(a)  increase the role of efficient central sector inst'tution3,
particularly NTPC (para 1.14);
(b) accelerate implementation of the uniform system of commercial
accounting for all SEBs (para 1.26); and
(c) give more favorable consideration to specific proposals for
private sector participation in power supply, particularly
when such developments would mobilize additional resources
for the sector (para 1.15).
1.33     GOI's initiative in forming PFC will also begin to yield results
under the Eighth Plan. Funds lent by PFC will be attractive to SEBs
because, at least in part, they will be additional to Plan allocations.
GOI expects that PFC will pursue institutional reform of SEBs through
subjecting loan beneficiaries to conditionality designed to improve
efficiency and financial performance. In addition, GOI will also press for
improvements in SEBs' financial performance through requiring SEBs to meet
or exceed the minimum rate of return target specified in the 1985 amendment
to the Electricity Supply Act (para 1.17).. Finally, GOI is giving close
consideration to formation of an entity to oversee development and
operation of a national transmission grid. GOI recognizes that this would
be difficult within the present organization of the sector (para 1.12).
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector
1.34     The Bank supports the elements of GOI's strategy outlined above.
However, while each element is desirable, the strategy does not address all
the sector's deficiencies in a sufficiently determined way. Additional
efforts are needed to address constraints in the areas of planning,
pricing, load management, institutional development and finance. The
prevalent nature of these constraints suggests that a sector-wide approach
should be sought. However, the comparative autonomy of the States and SEBs
from GOI makes it difficult to achieve progress through involvement
exclusively with central agencies. With the exception of the introduction
of uniform commercial accounting in SEBs, few improvements at the state
level have been realized through umbrella projects coordinated by a central
agency. The experience of the Bank ln its earlier transmission projects,
and more recently in rural electrification, has been particularly
disappointing. As a result, the Bank is pursuing a more direct involvement
with selected SEBs which, together with their state government, are
committed to reform and where state-specific programs can be designed to
address areas of deficiency. Initial experience with individual SEBs (in
Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh) has been encouraging. Under the Uttar Pradesh
and Karnataka Power Projects, Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board and
Karnataka Electricity Board each agreed to comprehensive programs of
institutional and financicl reform. Under the proposed project, MSEB will
also implement a program of institutional and financial reforms. The main
objectives of the program will be to strengthen MSEB's management
organization and management information systems and to adjust MSEB's tariff
to reflect more closely the level and structure of economic supply costs.



-13-
Tariffs and financial performance will continue to be the areas in which
progress is most difficult to make as States have limited incentives to
improve SEBsB financial performance.
1.35     In parallel with lending to selected SEBs, the Bank plans to
continue to support central sector entities. Increased reliance by the
SEBs on generation from NTPC and NHPC appears to be the best way to
encourage decisions at the state level consistent with the national
interest. Difficulties GOI has experienced in bringing hydro projects into
the central sector mean that NTPC will continue to be the main recipient of
Bank support. NTPC's record to date is impressive, though the Corporation
continues to face strains emanating from its rapid growth and will benefit
from continued Bank support (paras 1.18 and 1.26). In the wider context,
the Bank feels that a review is needed of the organization and technical
services provided by sector entities. This review should encompass the
organization and functions of CEA and consider the desirability of
establishing a utility specifically to develop and operate a national power
grid. Such an institutional review is included in the Bank's program of
economic sector work (para 1.24).
1.36     In addition to addressing areas in which GOI's strategy appears
deficient, it is appropriate also for the Bank to focus on aspects of the
strategy already adopted, where the Bank can catalyse progress. In this
regard, specific objectives the Bank has adopted are to assist:
(a) integration of power systems operations, including through
the formation of a national grid. Work that will be
undertaken by CEA and the Bank in parallel with the proposed
project will improve coordination of SEBs' operations in the
Western Region and facilitate efficient dispatch of new and
existing power stations (para 3.02);
(b) acceleration of hydro development. The proposed project
would assist facilitate more efficient utilization of the
existing Koyna reservoir and thereby avoid the need for more
expensive peaking thermal plant (para 5.04);
(c) development of international projects that could result in
low-cost sources of power for India, such as the Karnali
hydro project in Nepal and the Pancheshwar hydro project
lying on the border between India and Nepal;
(d) strategy developments that require coordinated actions by
organizations within and outside the power sector. The Bank
can tailor its own lending operations to improve inter-
sectoral cooperation. Priority areas concern improvements in
coal quality and transportation, and the use of natural gas
for power generation;



-14-
(e) development of private sector power generation. Possible
operations with BSES and TEC will aim to complement GOI's
initiatives to stimulcte private sector participation in
power supply (para 1.1Z). Specific project objectives will
be to mobilize funds not available to public power utilities
and to improve commercial arrangements between private
utilities and SEBs; and
(f) development of a comprehensive strategy regarding
environmental and sociological aspects of power sector
development. Economic sector work being undertaken this year
(para 1.24) will recommend uniform eni'ironmental,
sociological and anthropological safeguards for power
projects in India and improved procedures within GOI and the
States for reviewing proposed projects.
Bank Group Participation
1.37     The Bank has made 28 loans (US$5,339 million) and 18 IDA Credits
(US$2,306 million) for Indian power projects (Annex 1.3). Twenty-two
projects have been completed: 15 generation; 4 transmission; and 3 rural
electrification. Projects currently under implementation include: 12
generation, 3 of which are hydro; 2 transmission; and 5 which include a mix
of generation, transmission and distribution. With respect to NTPC
projects, the first-phase projects at Singrauli, Korba, and Ramagundam were
commissioned on or ahead of schedule and the plants have been operating at
high efficiency. The second-phase extensions at these sites, the Farakka,
the Rihand Power Transmission, and the Combined Cycle Projects are
proceeding satisfactorily.
1a38     Through its participation in the sector in recent years, the Bank
has contributed to the creation and development of NTPC which, with
2,500 MW commissioned in the last five years and around 3,000 MW under
construction, is becoming a large and efficient generating company by
international standards. The Bank also has assisted one of the few private
utilities ir. the country - the Tata Electric Companies - in supporting the
construction of the first 500 MW thermal unit in India and the Bank is
planning further operations to support development of private utilities.
Similarly, the Bank promoted - through two transmission projects. the
Central and Rihand Power Transmission Projects - the introduction of high
voltage, direct current technology. In addition to contributing in a
substantive way to the supply of power, projects financed by the Bank also
have promoted the development in India of a large public and private
manufacturing sector for the construction of the required equipment (e.g.
steam generators, turbo-generators, auxiliary and transmission equipment).
While these industries still lack the quality and efficiency of their
international counterparts, the competition resulting from international
competitive bidding will encourage further improvements in the quality of
domestically manufactured equipment.



-15-
1.39     The Bank has had a direct involvement in Maharashtra's power
sector through the First, Second, Third and Fourth Trombay Power Projects
with Tata Electric Companies 6/ and through the Chandrapur Thermal Power
Project (Loan 2544-IN in 1985) with MSEB. Implementation of the first
three Trombay projects was completed successfully. The Project Completion
Report for the Third Trombay Project (February, 1986) notes that the
project fully achieved its objectives and is likely to yield an economic
rate of return in excess of 302. Implementation of the Fourth Project is
proceeding satisfactorily and all Bank funds are now committed. After
initial delays related to necessary environmental clearances,
implementation of the Chandrapur Power Project is also now proceeding
satisfactorily. The Bank has also had indirect involvements in
Maharashtra's power aector through the First, Second and Third Rural
Electrification Projects, 7/ and through the First, Second and Third
Transmission Projects. 81 While the physical objectives of these projects
mostly have been achieved, implementation frequently was problematic and
institutional gains proved very disappointing relative to expectations.
1.40     A performance audit conducted in 1980 for the Second PoweiL
Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN) concluded that the project succeeded
in helping the nine beneficiary SEBs extend their transmission systems to
meet their growing power requirements. Utilization of generating capacity
in these SEBs exceeded the appraisal forecast. However, the audit
highlighted the difficulties of effecting institutional improvements in the
absence of a close working relationship between the Bank and beneficiary
SEBs. Project Completion Reports for the Third and Fourth Transmission
Projects (Credits 377-IN and 604-IN) highlight that Bank expectations to
improve the financial practices and viability of the SEBs through centrally
managed projects have not been fulfilled; despite some progress, SEBs in
general did not respond to initiatives mounted by GOI. These PCRs also
emphasize that direct Bank involvement with SEBs is desirable and the
attempts to reach SEBs through the Center probably will be successful only
when the Center is more directly involved in the sector in the region, for
alleviating power shortages and assisting in system expansion and
operation. Another performance audit, conducted in 1985 for the First and
Second Rural Electrification Projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN),
concluded that India's rural electrification program, of which the projects
were a part, has helped the country achieve food self-sufficiency,
alleviate poverty, and strengthen the rural economy; however, little
progress was made in bringing about institutional improvements. In common
with the previous audit, this also emphasized that the Bank should devote
resources to deal with the SEBs directly.
6/ Respectively, Loans 106-IN, 164-IN (in 1957), 1549-IN (in 1978) and
2452-IN (in 1984).
7/ Respectively, Credits 572-IN and 977-IN and Loan 2165-IN (in 1982).
8/ Respectively, Loan 416-IN and Credits 242-IN and 377-IN.



-16-
II. THE BENEFICIARIES
Introduction
2.01     The two principal beneficiaries of the project are the Government
of Maharashtra Irrigation Department (GOMID), which vill implement the
Koyna IV hydroelectric component, and the Maharashtra State Electricity
Board (MSEB). MSEB vill have responsibility for implementation of the
Transmission and Distribution component, as well as for the operation and
maintenance of Koyna IV hydro component (under a 30-year leasing
arrangement with GOM) once construction completed. A brief account of the
two Action Plans, aimed respectively at trengthening the operational
management as well as consolidating the longer run financial soundness of
MSEB, is given in paras 2.12 and 4.01.
A. Government of Maharashtra Irrigation Department
2.02     GOMID is an operational unit of the Government of Maharashtra,
responsible for implementing all irrigation and hydropower schemes in
Maharashtra. The Bank au.d GOMID have been associated in a number of
irrigation and hydroelectric projects dating back to the earlier Koyna
developments. The most recent project financed by the Bank and implemented
by GOMID is the Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project (Loan 1621-IN),
approved in 1986. GOMID is therefore thoroughly familiar with the Bank's
procedures for project implementation.
Organization and Technical Capabilities
2.03     Civil engineering design is carried out under the chief engineer
(projects). He is responsible for the Central Design Office (CDO) which
carries out major civil design work; he is also responsible for the
Maharashtra Engineering Research Institute (a well reputed organization
carrying out basic and applied research in the civil engineering field),
the Dam Safety Organization, and the Engineering Staff College. The chief
engineer (electrical) is responsible for the design of permanent equipment
for each installation, and the chief engineer (mechanical) is responsible
for provision and maintenance of construction plant by force account units.
Coordination of the various inputs is the responsibility of the regional
superintending engineer in charge of the project. Improvement to the
existing organization will be implemented under the proposed project
(para 3.10).
2.04     At the operating level, responsibility is divided among a number
of functional divisions and six regional divisions, each headed by a chief
engineer. Regional chief engineers are responsible for investigation and
construction of new projects and operation and maintenance of existing
irrigation projects.
2.05     GOMID's design and construction organization is well established
and experienced.  GOID and its predecessor (Maharashtra Izrigation and
Power Department) have been responsible for the construction of some 600
large and medium-sized dams throughout the state. GOMID also has
considerable experience in hydropower, having installed some 1,200 MW over



-17-
the last 30 years. Most of their hydro developments are small to medium
sized plants associated with irrigation dams. However, they have also been
responsible for a number of large developments, including the first three
stages of the Koyna scheme, which are directly relevant to the currently
proposed development. Stages I and II, which were completed in 1967, have
an installed capacity of 560 MW in eight units, and a very similar
configuration to Stage TV. The Stage III development, completed in 1976,
also inclu.des a major dam, an underground powerhouse, long tunnels, and a
further 500 MW of capacity in four units. In the construction area, the
practice of GOMID carrying out a large proportion of its work by force
account has resulted in the desirable situation of supervising engineers
having direct construction experience. Specific GOMID arrangements to
implement Koyna IV are discussed in Chapter III.
2.06     Hydropower plants in Maharashtra belong to GOM; they are leased
for 30 years to MSEB, which is fully responsible for their operation . i
maintenance. For each plant, the lease rent payment is calculated so that
GOM recoup all investment costs for power generation, at an 8Z interest
rate, over a 30-year period. After 30 years, the facility will return to
GOM and a new lease contract would be negotiated. All hydro plants in
Maharishtra are less than 30 years old, but the lease for the older ones
will be eligible for renegotiation within two years. MsEB bears all
operation and maintenance costs.
2.07     The 8Z interest rate used for calculation of the lease-rent
payments is substantially below the ongoing interest rate for long-term
loans to MSEB (1lZ to 14Z), and the rate charged by GOM for loans to its
agencies and corporations (9Z). Hence, it arguably includes an element of
subsidization. Moreover, the 30-year period used in the calculation is
less than the economic life of most hydro plants. This situation should be
corrected in the future for new hydro plants; hence under the Financial
Action Plan (Annex 4.4, para 2(c)), GOM and MSEB will revise the terms of
the lease agreements to be signed later than December 31, 1989.
Project Accounts and Audit
2.08     External audit of project accounts will be carried out by the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India, through his local
representatives, the Auditor General of Maharashtra. Agreement was reached
with GOM during negotiations that GOMID will set up separate accounts for
the proposed project, to be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, and that it will provide the Bank with audited
financial statements of said project accounts within nine months of the end
of each fiscal year, together with a certified report by the Auditor.
B. Maharashtra State Electricity Board
Introduction
2.09     The proposed project would be the second Bank operation with MSEB.
The first project (Chandrapur Thermal Power Project, Loan 2544-IN) focussed
on training, reduction of transmission and distribution losses, financial
accounting, and tariff structure improvement. The project is proceeding



-18-
satisfactorily, except with regard to commercial receivables (paras 4.06
and 4.17), and delay in preparation of a tariff structure study now
underway (para 2.17).
2.10     MSEB was constituted in 1954 under the Electricity (Supply) Act of
1948; it is responsible for generation, transmission, and distribution of
electricity throughout the State of Maharashtra. It constitutes the
largest state power network in India, with an installed capacity of about
6,000 MW as of end-1987 (13Z of all-India); 256,000 km of distribution
lines, and 150,000 km of above 11 kV transmission lines. It has about
97,000 employees (10Z of the sector). MSEB seives about 6.5 million
connections comprising 4.3 million domestic, 0.7 million commercial, 0.2
million industrial, 1.2 million agric__tura)., and less than 0.1 million
miscellaneous. Industrial consumption represents 38Z of the total, while
commercial represents 2Z; agriculture 17Z; domestic consumption 8Z; and
other consumers and bulk power trading 35X. The Board constructs and
operates generating stations and transmission and distribution networks to
supply final consumers, and also issues licenses to private power utilities
in Maharashtra 9/ and for private captive generation. MSEB is not fully
autonomous in executing its responsibilities, since the Government of
Maharashtra Energy Department (GOMED) exercises considerable infl-ence over
the Board's activities, especially in matters of staffing, borrowing, and
tariff-setting. Furthermore, MSEB's capital investment program is an
integral part of Mahareshtra's capital budget formulated by GOI ntd GOM on
a five-year basis.
2.11     Although there is scope for improvement in management efficiency
and productivity by international standards (Annex 2.1) as well as for
improved financial performance, MSEB raiks favourably in comparison with
other SEBs in Ii.dia (Annex 2.2) in terms of efficiency and financial
performance; it is the seventh SEB in terms of number of employees per
1,000 consumers (17.5 employees/l,000 consumers), and the second for the
number of employees per GWh (4.6 employees per GWh); it was one of the two
SEBs in the country with a positive net income in FY 1986/87, and a rate of
return (on historically valued net fixed assets, after depreciation,
interest and taxes) close to the 32 minimum stipulated in the Electricity
(Supply) Act (equivalent to a 9.3Z ROR on historical assets according to
Bank definition).
2.12     During preparation of the proposed project, the management,
operations and finances of MSEB have been reviewed in the context of an
Action Plan for Managerial Development (.nnex 2.3), and a Financial Action
Plan (A ,ex 4.4), aimed at strengthening the overall operational,
managerial and financial performance of this utility. The main areas that
would need improvement are organization, management information systems,
and finances. MSEB's present organization was found to be generally
satisfactory. However, in order to improve the quality of electricity
service and enhance productivity, the organization of MSEB will need to be
strengthened in the following areas: (a) corporate planning; (b)
distribution planning; (c) operations performance monitoring; (d)
management accounting; (e) environment protection; and (f) management
9/ The Tata Electric Companies (TEC) and Bombay Suburban Electricity
Supply (BSES), both operating in Bombay.



-19-
information systems. The necessary actions needed to achieve this
improvement have been discussed with MSEB's management, and are included in
an Action Plan for Manager'al Development (Annex 2.3), including specific
targets, proposed actions to achieve them, and an implementation timetable.
The different aspects of the Action Plan are discussed below in the ensuing
paragraphs. During negotiations, agreement was reached with MSEB on the
content of the Action Plan as well as on its implementation in accordance
with an agreed timetable (para 6.02(a)). Regarding electricity tariffs,
specific actions to improve cost recovery from consumers and inter-state
power trading have already been identified and are discussed in para 2.17.
Measures necessary to improve the financial situation of MSEB and
strengthen its financial autonomy are discussed in Chapter IV.
Organization
2.13     MSEB is a corporate body managed by a Board consisting of a full-
time Chairman, and three full-time Members (for Accounts, Technical, and
Administration). Board Members are appointed by GOM, and define MSEB's
general policies, as well as managing their respective sectors. The Board
meets about twice every month. MSEB's field organization for distribution
(Annex 2.4) is generally satisfactory. It is set up around seven Regional
Distribution Zones, under a Technical Director (Distribution). Each Zone,
headed by a Regional Chief Engineer, comprises about five Circles, each of
fi-re Divisions. An average Division serves about 60,000 consumers, with a
workforce of about 700. The Division is a fairly autonomous entity, in
charge of distribution system maintenance, commercial relations with
consumers, billing and collection, consumers connection and disconnection,
local accounting, and personnel management. Generation (Operations &
Haintenance) is organized in the field in eight zones corresponding to the
main power plants and transmission substations. MSEB directly executes a
substantial part of its development program, espertally transmission lines
and substations, with its departmental organization.
Operation and Maintenance
2.14     MSEB's operation and plant maintenance standards and practices are
satisfactory. This is confirmed by the relative low load shedding taking
place in a system with little or no spare capacity. Overall plant
performance is acceptable. Major maintenance is done by contractors or
suppliers and routine maintenance is done by MSEB staff. Major equipment
is maintained in accordance with routines and schedules prescribed by
manufacturers. Transmiscion lines are inspected at least once a month, and
major components of distribution systems are also inspected periodically in
accordance with pre-established schedules. Reporting of performance for
generation and analysis of field reports are systematically done at MSEB's
headquarters. Reporting of performance for Transmission and most of all,
for Distribution is less satisfactory, where the management is not provided
with a consistent set of operational performance indicators. As part of
the Action Plan for Managerial Development (Annex 2.3, para 2.3), a
performance monitoring system will be implemented, and present monitoring
indicators will be reviewed and revised, if needed. Moreover, a central
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) unit will be established to monitor
technical performance indicators and maintenance standards (terms of
reference are given in Annex 2.3, Attachment 4). Training as well as



-20-
technical visits to selected public utilities to acquaint MSEB's staff with
on-going practices in this respect will be financed under the proposed
project (para 3.06). Maintenance of installations such as buildings,
auxiliary services (i.e. water treatment plants, repair shops, storage
area, etc.) is corrective rather than preventive. Standards are generally
below those for a utility of the size and importance of MSEB. The general
condition and cleanliness of some installation poses risks to safe plant
operation and to safety and health of staff. Under the Action Plan for
Managerial Development (Annex 2.3. para 2.3), MSEB will establish by
March 31, 1990, an O&M unit, and prepare, before December 31, 1990,
maintenance manuals and preventive maintenance routines.
Tariffs
2.15     MSEB's existing tariff is summarized in Annex 2.5, together with
the relationship of the main elements of the tariff in comparison with
estimated economic supply costs. The principal features of the tariff are
its complexity, the cross-subsidy of low voltage consumers (and
agricultural consumers in particular) by industry and the absence of any
distinction between the co'sts of providing energy during peak and off-peak
periods. MSEB's average tariff level of 75 paise per kWh in 1987188 is
estimated to have been equivalent to approximately 74Z of the marginal cost
of supplies and is one of the highest in India. However, the structure of
MSEB's tariff shows sharp divergences from the structure of marginal cost
estimates. For example, while the tariff to large industrial consumers is
equivalent to approximately 1152 of the marginal cost of supplying these
consumers, agricultural consumers are charged only 82 of the marginal cost
of their supplies. Similarly, the tariff to commercial consumers is
approximately 602 of marginal cost, while that to domestic consumers is
about only 24Z of marginal cost.
2.16     Under the 1985 revision to the Electricity (Supply) Act, SEBs have
the authority to adjust the level and structure of their tariffs. In
practice, however, SEBs do not adjust tariffs without the concurrence of
their state government; power tariffs (particularly to low voltage
consumers) have become a highly charged political issue. Nevertheless, the
pace of reform of MSEB's tariff has been impressive. Since 1984/85, the
average level of MSEB's tariff has increased 25.02 in real terms, an
average real increase of 7.7Z per annum (Annex 2.5), page 2). Prices to
industry increased over 30? in real terms during this period as did prices
to bulk purchasers of power. 10/
2.17     The proposed project includes actions which aim to continue
improving the level and structure of MSEB's tariff in relation to economic
supply costs through a series of load management initiatives and selective
tariff increases. This project component will be based upon the findings
and recommendations of a study of MSEB-s tariff presently being undertaken
by consultants. During negotiations, MSEB agreed that, prior to
December 31, 1989, it would furnish to the Bank a copy of the finsl report
of the tariff study (para 6.02(b)). It was understood during negotiations
that the Bank will provide MSEB with comments on the findings and
recommendations of the study, and that MSEB will take the Bank's comments
10/ MSEB also provides bulk power supplies to TEC, BSES and States in the
Western and Southern Regions.



-21-
into account when formulating its proposals for tariff adjustments and load
management initiatives. MSEB also agreed that, prior to June 30, 1990, it
will afford the Bank an opportunity to comment on the tariff adjustments
and load management initiatives it lntends to implement based, inter alia,
on the recommendation of the tariff study (para 6.02(b)).
Personnel and Staffing
2.18     At the end of FY1988, HSEB had about 97,000 regular employees, and
about 8,000 skilled workers employed in non-permanent positions
(Annex 2.6). About 6,000 of the regular workforce and all the daily wage
workers were engaged in construction activities. Distribution and
Operation & Maintenance staff represent 85,000 employees, of which more
than 50? were unskilled workers.  Although significant labor productivity
gains were achieved over the last few years (from 21 employees per thousand
consumers in FY83 to 15 employees per thousand consumers in FY1987/88), and
MSEB's labour productivity is one of the highest amongst India's State
Electricity Boards, MSEB is still over-staffed compared to public utilities
in cceparable developing countries (Annex 2.1) (for example, in Indonesia,
there are 81 consumers per employee). MSEB's management has placed, in FY
1986/87, a freeze on recruitment of all staff below junior enginseer level
(levels III and IV). Future expansion (7.7? per annum in terms of power
generation, and 6.2? per annum in terms of number of consumers) over the
FY 1987188 to FY 1994/95 period is expected to be met with an average
labour force increase of 2X per annum. To achieve this target, MSEB's
Action Plan for Managerial Development includes the preparation of a human
resources development plan, including monitorable annual staff productivity
targets, and a manpower plan (Annex 2.3, para 3.3, and Attachment 7).
Training
2.19     MSEB has an active Training Department located at Nasik,
supervising eight training centers (four for generation, and four for T&D),
mainly for technicians and engineers. In addition, MSEB has in-house
training programs in accounting and administration, and external training
programs in finance, management of human resources for higher level staff,
computer skills and science, and in specialized technical fields. In
FY1987/88, training courses were delivered to 1,329 employees in different
fields, of which 1,273 within MSEB (Annex 2.7). MSEB has also developed
human resources management and staff motivation programs, and is
experimenting--with some success--with Quality Circles and "protege"
(mentor) arrangements for junior staff. However, there is a deficiency in
specific training for higher level staff in public utilities management,
particularly in management accounting, corporate planning, operation
performance monitoring systems, and MIS computerization for public
utilities. The proposed project will finance specific training programs in
public utilities management and MIS (operation and maintenance, para 2.14;
financial planning, para 2.21; and management accounting, para 2.23).   The
Action Plan for Managerial Developmeit also includes specific targets for
computer training (Annex 2.3, para 3.2).



-22-
Corporate Planning
2.20     To date MSEB has no Investment Planning or Corporate Planning unit
to ptepare medium and long-term development plans and to integrate the
plans of the different organizational units. Investment Planning is
nominally under the Chief Engineer (Transmission Planning); Operation
Planning is coordinated by the Director Generation (Operations &
Maintenance); Sales Planning is under the Chief Engineer (Commercial);
Personnel Planning under the Member (Administration); and Financial
Planning is under the Director (Finance). The planning cycle in MSEB is
limited to the preparation every five years of the State and National
Plans. With the considerable developments planned to occur in the future,
coordination between generation, T&D, commercial, and finance functions is
becoming increasingly important. The planning function needs to be
reorganized and strengthened, to become a centralized, coordinating, and
forwarding-looking function. The need for a planning unit is recognized by
MSEB management, and the establishment of a centralized planning unit is
included in the Action Plan for Managerial Development (Annex 2.3, para 2.2
and Attachment 2). This unit will prepare and maintain a detailed,
revolving five-year plan, as well as long-term indicative 10 and 20-year
plans; it will also coordinate the preparation of disaggregated power
demand forecasts, and detailed plans for generation and T&D, investment,
finance, and manpower.
Financial Planning
2.21     Financial planning is carried out mainly for the annual
calculation and negotiation of GOM loans to MSEB, and the preparation of
the National and State Plans, but not for management purpose. The Board
prepares every five years, as part of the National and State planning
process, reports on its investment program and investment financing
requirements. These documents are of little practical use for financial
planning purpose, as they are prepared in constant prices, and do not
provide a complete investment and working capital financing plan including
all sources available. Moreover, the five-year plan is not updated
annually, and therefore rapidly becomes obsolete. An experimental
Financial Planning Unit has been established in relation with the
preparation of the proposed project, but its present staffing is
insufficient, and the scope for strengthening it is limited by the acute
shortage in MSEB of suitably trained staff. The unit also needs data
processing support, but the introduction of micro-computers and
computerized financial planning models is being delayed by the necessary
lead-time to train staff in their operation. The strengthening of the
Financial Planning Unit, and the satisfaction of its logistic needs is
included in the Action Plan for Managerial Development (Annex 2.3,
para 2.2). The proposed project will provide support for purchase of data
processing hardware and software, and for training abroad, as necessary
(para 3.06, and Annex 3.1).
Financial Organization and Accounting
2.22     Financial operations in MSEB are regulated by the Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948, amended in 1978 and 1985 to reorganize finances of SEBs
along commercial lines. MSEB successfully introduced new commercial



-23-
accounting system in 1985. The organization of MSEB's financial complex is
satisfactory. It is is headed by a full-time Board Member (Accounts), who
is a senior member of the Indian Administrative Service. He is assisted by
a Director (Accounts) for financial accounting; a Director (Finance) for
revenue collection, financial operations, treasury, and the budget; a
Director (Management Accounts) for consumer billing, computer center
management, and management accounting; and a Director (Internal Audit) for
field office inspection, internal financial audit, and relations with the
External Auditor. In addition, the Accounting Department has field offices
in every zone and division, under the administrative authority of the local
Chief Engineer, but with permanent functional relations with the
Directorate of Finance and the Directorate of Management Accounts.
Accounts Department staff are competent and well-trained.
2.23     Management Accounting needs to be strengthened.  Reasonably
reliable cost data are available only for thermal generation, but not for
T&D. Data availability is insufficient for tariff setting, performance
monitoring, or economic analysis. MSEB is aware of this weakness and has
requested Bank support under the proposed project to modernize its
management accounting system. The proposed project includes provision for
organizing a training programlworkshop for upper level management
accounting staff (para 3.06 and Annex 3.1). The implementation of a new
management accounting system is included in the Action Plan for Managerial
Development (Annex 2.3, para 3.1), under terms of reference given in
Attachment 6 to Annex 2.3.
External Audit
2.24     The audit of MSEB's accounts is carried out annually by the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India through his local representative,
the Auditor General of Maharashtra. The FY1987/88 audit report was
completed recently and found satisfactory. Accounting procedures in MSEB
have been found satisfactory in general jy the Auditor. According to the
Act, the accounts and the Auditor's report must be submitted to the State
Government within six months of the close of the year. In the past, MSEB
has submitted the financial statements to the Auditor within the six-month
limit, but the Auditor's report was finalized after the six-month period,
although within the nine-month period stipulated in the Chandrapur Thermal
Power Project. The existing audit arrangements under the on-going
Chandrapur Thermal Power Project are satisfactory, and should be continued.
During negotiations, MSEB agreed to continue to furnish to the Bank, by no
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, its audited
accounts together with the Auditor's certificate and report.
Internal Audit
2.25     MSEB's internal control is limited at present to financial and
monetary transactions, including capital expenditures, store purchases,
billing and collection. Controls are carried out by the Chief Auditor, who
reports to the Member (Accounts). This unit has proved to be efficient in
establishment of sound financial procedures. However, its role is limited
to financial transactions, and does not extend to all managerial practices
and internal procedures, which are also covered in modern internal audit
units. MSoreover, the placement of this unit under the Member (Accounts)



-24-
may limit its autonomy and independence. The extension of the role of the
Internal Audit Unit, and suitable arrangements to guarantee its
independence and autonomy are included in the Action Plan for Managerial
Development (Annex 2.3, para 2.3), and terms of reference are given in
Attachment 5 to Annex 2.3.
Consumers Billing
2.26     All electricity consumption is metered, except for low voltage
agriculture. Meter reading and billing is done on a monthly basis for
industrial and agricultural high voltage consumers. For other consumers,
meter reading is carried out every two months (every four months in rural
areas). Although consumeL billing is still mostly manual, it is reasonably
efficient and is not responsible for collection delays. MSEB has initiated
in 1974 a billing computerization program, with one computer center in each
zone. To date four out of seven zones have been successfully computerized
(Pune, Bombay, Nagpur, and Aurangabad). Computerization of the remaining
three zones is delayed by the shortage of staff with computer skills
(despite MSEB's computer training program), the considerable work required
for the initial data input (each region represent about one million
consumers), and telecommunication deficiencies between regions. These
issues will be addressed under MSEB's Data Processing Plan (para 2.28).
Management Information System and Data Processing
2.27     MSEB has embarked on the development of its management information
system (MIS), and encouraging results have been achieved in the areas of
financial accounting, consumer billing, investment project monitoring,
inventory management and fixed assets management; the MIS is still under
development for personnel management.  At present, each of the main
departments has its own MIS and data processing systems which have been
developed independently.  With the growth !  the number of consumers, the
increased generation capacity, and the expansion of the transmission and
distribution network, an increasing volume of data must be collected and
processed to provide timely information to the decision centers.  MIS
development has not kept up to the Board's expansion, hence some systems
need to be modernized and integrated to become an effective management
tool. In consideration of the size of the organization, its limited
absorptive capacity and the shortage of managerial skills, MSEB has adopted
a piecemeal approach, progressing sub-system by sub-systam. Under the
Action Plan for Managerial Development, MSEB will redesign in priority the
Operations Management System and performance indicator monitoring system
(para 2.14), and management accounting system (para 2.23).
2.28     Computerization in MSEB was initiated in 1974.  However, it is
still at an infant stage. Until now, the Finance Department, who is the
heaviest user, has taken the lead for managerial computer development.
The pace of computerization hap been slow, because of restrictions on
acquisition of suitable hardwaLe and software, shortage of qualified staff,
and resistance from labour unions. However, the situation has improved,
since computer acquisition has been liberalized. MSEB has now a regular
computer training program, and resistance from unions has diminished. With
the acceleration of computerization, the need for coordination of the
initiative taken by the different departments has become more pressing.



-25-
Under the Action Plan for Managerial Development (Annex 2.3, paras 2.2,
and 3.2), MSEB will: (i) create a Data Processing department in charge of
mainframe computer operation, development of software for management, and
coordination of acquisition of data processing hardware and software; (ii)
accelerate training in data processing; and (iii) prepare a time-bound
long-term Data Processing plan, setting long term goals, and outlining
MSEB's proposed strategy (terms of reference are given in Annex 2.3,
Attachment 3).
Tax Regime
2.29     HSEB is liable for corporate taxes according to the Indian
corporate tax laws, which stipulate that corporate tax is collected by the
Central Government. In the past, GOI's investment financing policy for
MSEB has kept the interest burden on MSEB high, therefore the Board did not
show a taxable income. MSEB's accumulated losses and the accelerated
depreciation allowed for corporate tax purposes, which can be carried
forward, are such that MSEB will not incur any income tax obligation over
the next ten years, even at the targeted rate of return of 4Z.
Insurance
2.30     MSEB follows the standard practice of insuring works under
construction and equipment procured for ongoing projects against total or
partial loss. For permanent installations MSEB holds policies which
conform to the accepted utility practice in India in terms of type and
amount of coverage. Assets which are mortgaged with Life Insurance
Corporation are insured, as are assets of hydro power stations which are on
lease from GOMID. The present practice does not provide insurance for
industrial risks and accidental damage to industrial installation.
However, generation related risks do exist, as demonstrated by a recent
accidental fire in a coal handling facility, for which no insurance
coverage was provided for. Under the Action Plan for Managerial
Development (Annex 2.3), MSEB will carry out a comprehensive industrial
risks survey for its operations and contract adequate insurance coverage
(Draft terms of reference for the survey are given in Annex 2.3,
Attachment 8).
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01     Because of the high thermal share, peak demand in the Western
Region is being partially met with expensive-to-run thermal plant.
Moreover, the need for thermal plant to operate at partial load during off-
peak hours is shortening considerably equipment life. To correct this
imbalance, the long term expansion plan for the Western Region includes the
installation of a number of peaking plants in the Region. The concept of
the proposed scheme is to expand further the capacity of the existing Koyna
hydropower, capacity allowing the entire installation to operate in a more
peaking mode than at present. This solution, in addition to being the
least cost, minimizes displacement of population and adverse environmental



-26-
effects because no new reservoir is needed and all necessary infrastructure
is in place. Koyna IV vould add 1,000 MW of peaking capacity to the
existing system but only a small quantity of additional energy would be
generated by the Koyna complex, that resulting from the higher efficiency
of the new units relative to the existing ones. The objective of the
project will increase capacity to generate at peak hours at the expense of
generation at times when spare capacity exists elsewhere; shifting Koyna to
peak load duty would result .4n existing thermal units operating at a higher
load factor and increasing their energy generation by about 1390 GWh.
3.02     Interstate power trading in the Western Region is still very
imperfect and does not take full advantage of the large potential economic
gains from integrated operation. The WREB, established to organize power
pooling and dispatching in the Region, has not fully achieved its
objectives because of institutional, technical and operational limitations.
Presently most interstate power transactions are arranged bilaterally by
the SEBs concerned, without full access to information on the best options
available to SEBs at a particular time. Prices are set in an ad-hoc way
with no clear relation to overall economy and efficiency of the system.
While WREB local dispatching is equipped with sophisticated hardware and
software, financed through a previous Bank credit (Credit 377-IN) for
monitoring plant operation and programming plant dispatch, there is still
considerable scope for improvements in interstate power trading.
Understanding was reached during negotiations that GOI and the Bank will
jointly undertake, in parallel with the implementation of the proposed
project, the studies described in Annex 3.10 which will identify
opportunities to improve coordination of regional load dispatch and to
rationalize the commercial arrangements governing interstate power trading.
3.03     The existing Koyna gravity dam was completed in 1961.  In 1967, a
severe earthquake damaged the structure which was repaired and strengthened
with the advice of international experts. Since then, the dam has operated
satisfactorily with no signs of distress or abnormal behavior. HSEB and
GOMID have set up a detailed surveillance system including necessary
instrumentation, periodic inspection of the dam and monitoring of
performance by a panel of experts. Over the years, leakage through the dam
has increased substantially although not yet exceeding normal levels for
this type of dam. Considering the additional investments to be incurred in
Koyna IV and the need to ensure that the life of the dam is preserved for
as long as Koyna IV would be in operation, it is prudent to proceed at this
stage with a thorough inspection of dam condition using modern technology
'i.e. underground cameras, radioisotop tracers, etc.) to: (i) carry out
repairs as necessary to control leakage and any other repairs deemed
necessary after detailed inspection; (ii) upgrade surveillance
instrumentation and monitoring procedures; and (iii) update emergency plans
and procedures. The proposed project includes a component to carry out
these tasks.
3.04     MSEB's five-year system expansion plan for 1989/90-1994/95
includes generation additions (about 2,200 MW), reinforcement and
improvements to the high voltage transmission system (about 3,300 km of
double and single circuit lines with voltages between 110 kV and 400 kV),
as well as improvementi and development of the distribution grids
throughout Maharashtrs. Annex 3.1 (Section B) gives details of the plan.
The Plan is well balanced with emphasis on transmission and distribution,



-27-
two areas which have been lagging behind, impeding a better use of existing
generating capacity and constraining the reduction of system losses which
are presently at 14Z. Generation projects included in the Plan are part of
the least-cost expansion program for the Western Region prepared by CEA.
The configuration of the high-voltage transmission system is also least-
cost and has been determined on the basis of expected demand growth at the
various load centers throughout the State, together with requirements for
power evacuation from proposed and existing generating stations. The
proposed transmission program is consistent with the long term transmission
plan for the Region up to the year 2005 prepared by CEA. Distribution
investments included in MSEB's investment Plan are part of a longer term
(10 year) program to improve and expand the distribution systems in ten
major urban centers throughout the State. The first group of cities in the
Plan includes Thane, Dombivali, Ulhasnagar, Nagpur and Pune. Transmission
and distribution schemes scheduled for implementation during the initial
three years of the Plan, for which Bank financing is proposed under this
Project, have been defined at feasibility level whereas those in the later
years of the plan are still at prefeasibility stage and may undergo changes
in cost and scope as engineering work advances. For this reason the
proposed Bank financing covers only the initial three years of the Plan.
The Plan, when implemented, would result in a more efficient use of
installed plant, better service quality, lower system losses and increased
revenues for MSEB.
Project Objectives
3.05     The Project objective is to improve power supply and operating
efficiency In MSEB and in the Western Region power systems through:
(a) expanding regional peaking capacity at least cost; (b) improving
utilization of existing generating capacity; lc) strengthening and
upgrading MSEB's transmission and distribution systems; (d) recommeniding
ways to improve load dispatch in the Western Region and rationalize bulk
power regional trading: (e) improving MSEB's retail power tariff structure;
(f) strengthening MS!B's finances; and (g) introducing institutional
improvements to MSEB.
Project Description
3.06     The project would consist of:
(a) construction of the fourth stage of the Koyna hydroelectric power
plant comprising:
Ci)    intake structure in the existing Royna reservoir;
(ii)   a 4.5 km long headrace tunnel for 230 m3/s maximum
capacity ending in a 22.8 m diameter, 110 m high surge
tank;
(iii) four steel-lined high pressure shafts 3.9 rn diameter
and 530 m long each;



-28-
(iv)   a 1,000 MW (4x250 MW) underground power station
including a machine hall 22 m wide, 143 m long and
48 m high and a transformers hall 158 m long, 22 m
wide and 18 m high;
(v)    a 2,150 m long tailrace tunnel;
(vi)   a 2,000 m long tunnel for access to the power plant;
and
(vii)  the associated 400 kV switchyard and transmission
lines;
(b)  detailed inspection of the existing Koyna dam, repairs as needed,
upgrading of instrumentation, and review of emergency plans as
required;
(c)  supply and erection of equipment and materials for MSEB five-year
transmission and distribution investment program to be procured
between 1989/90 and 1991/92, and strengthening of MSEB capabilities
for planning of distribution systems;
sd)  implementation of plans to strengthen MSEB's finances, management,
and operations including: (i) financial performance targets and
corresponding actions; (ii) setting up of corporate planning,
opexational performance monitoring, and management accounting
systems; (iii) streamlining internal procedures; and (iv)
accelerating development of data processing and internal audit
systems; and
Ce)  consultancy, training services, including services of POE, and
computer hardware and software required to implement parts (a) to
(e) of the project.
Annex 3.1 gives a detailed description of the project.
Project Engineering
3.07     Koyna IV Power Station.  GOMID has been responsible for the
engineering of the Koyna complex. Engineering work stated in the late 50's
for Stages I and II, which were commissioned between May 1962 and June,
19M7. Stage III was commissioned in 1976. GOMID has been working since
1978 on the engineering of Stage IV, for which designs, draft bidding
documents, and technical specifications for all major contracts have been
completed. GOMID has appointed a five-member Panel of Experts (POE) to
review the technical aspects of the power plant. Annex 3.7 shows the TOR
for the POE. The present composition of the POE may need to be modified to
include a wider range of specialists in fields such as rock mechanics,
geotechnical engineering, dam safety and electromechanical equipment, etc.
and to ensure independent technical review. GOMID agreed to retain the POE
to review the technical aspects of Koyna IV in accordance with the TOR
agreed with the Bank, and to furnish for Bank review the revised composition
of the POE including the qualifications of the proposed members
(para 6.01tb)). The terms of reference for the POE enable it to retain



-29-
temporary members or advisors in specific disciplines. To expedite the
recruitment of temporary or permanent members of the POE, GOHID will
maintain a roster of specialists in different disciplines during the
construction period, from which POE members will be selected. The roster
and the qualifications of included candidates will be furnished to the Bank
for comments no later than December 31, 1989 (para 6.01(a)). Any subsequent
additions to the roster should be acceptable to the Bank. The POE will
oversee the technical aspects of project implementation until commissioning
of the last generating unit.
3.08     GOMID has a cadre of experienced engineers in design and
construction of hydropower stations which will be responsible for the
detailed design and construction supervision of the power station. However,
since completion of the previous stages, underground design and construction
technology have evolved rapidly resulting in more efficient and less
expensive practices. Moreover, the size of the units proposed for Koyna IV
(250 MW, Francis type) is unprecedented in India and no substantial
expe::ience exists in the country with units of similar characteristics.
GOMID will therefore need assistance from consultants with suitable
expertise in design, manufacturing and erection and testing of large
Francis-type generating units. GOIMD will also benefit from assistance of
consultants with expertise in modern construction of underground works.
Moreover, the detailed inspection and subsequent repairs, if necessary, of
the Koyna dam will need specialized assistance in modern dam inspection and
repair technology. GOM has agreed to employ consultants by December 31,
1989, to assist GOMID during the preparation of final engineering,
preparation of technical specifications, inspection of manufacturing of the
generating units and erection and testing of the units. In addition, GOMID
has agreed to appoint, before December 31, 1989, an independent
international dam review panel (DRP) of specialists to: (i) review the
present condition of the Koyna dam; (ii) determine the scope of any
additional investigations that may be required; (iii) establish the need for
specialized consultants for the additional investigations; (iv) approve the
terms of reference for any consultants that may be needed; (v) review the
results of the investigations and the proposed repairs plan; and (vi) review
implementation of the repairs :para 6.01(b)). GOMID will furnish the Bank,
before December 31, 1990, the report of the panel for comment.  Any
consultants determined by the DRP will be appointed before June 30, 1991
(para 6.01(c)). Annex 3.8 shows the suggested terms of reference for the
engineering consultants. About 80 staff-months of consulting services will
be required for this purpose. Annex 3.9 shows the suggested scope of the
investigations and engineering work to be carried out in respect of the
existing Koyna dam.
3.09     Transmission and Distribution Component. MSEB will be responsible
for the engineering of the transmission and distribution components of the
projec;, including the transmission lines to evacuate power from Koyna IV.
Engineering for transmission and distribution schemes to be financed under
the Project are at feasibility level. MSEB has prepared general conditions
for bids, special conditions, conditions of contract and draft technical
specifications for the bulk of materials and equipment to be procured under
the Project. MSEB has sufficient competent engineers and an adequate
organization to undertake the detailed engineering work associated with
these components. However, MSEB's needs for expansion and reinforcement of
distribution systems are large and growing fast. Presently distribution



-30-
planning and optimization of this work, which involves considerable
computational effort, is done manually. MSEB's planning and design
capabilities need to be enhanced by the provision of suitable computerized
design aids that will permit system planning and design at a rate
commensurate with its needs, and the preparation of more economical
development distribution plans, and the refining of the schemes proposed
under this component. Moreover, MSEB is not fully exploiting existing
design options whJich could substantially reduce costs of system improvements
and development. The proposed project provides for assistance to HSEB to
improve distribution planning and to enhance MSEB's capabilities in this
regard. MSEB will, as part of the proposed Action Plan for Managerial
Development (Annex 2.3): (i) acquire and install hardware and software
necessary to implement computerized planning and design for distribution
systems; and (ii) implement a training program for distribution staff
including, inter-alia, operation of computerized planning and design and
familiarization with current trends and practices in distribution planning
and design elsewhere in the world. Attachment 1 to Annex 2.3 gives the
proposed scope of the program. About 20 staff-months of coneultancy
services will be required to net up the computerlzed design system and train
MSEB's staff in its use.
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule
3.10     Koyna IV Power Station.  The project will be completed over a
period of six-and-a-half years starting mid-19&9. GOMID will be responsible
for implementation of the Koyna IV power station. The first unit of Koyna
IV will be commissioned in December 1994 and the fourth unit in December
1995. Being an extension of an existing power plant, much of the necessary
infrastructure such as housing, access roads, communications facilities,
etc. are already in place. Road access to all working fronts of the plant
has been completed except for the 1.5 km road to the top of the surge tank
which will be part of the civil works contract for the headrace tunnel.
GOMID is presently excavating several access tunnels and the tailrace tunnel
on force account and using local contractors. These works which are not
financed by the Bank will be handed over to the main civil contractors
allowing rapid access to excavation of the headrace tunnel and power house
which are critical. GOMID has established a project unit to implement this
component. Annex 3.14 shows the organization proposed by GOMID which is
generally satisfactory. The Bank has proposed modifications to the
crganization to strengthen specific areas which presently appear inadequate
for the proposed tasks. GOMID will revise the organization of the project
unit as agreed with the Bank. GOMID agreed to provide, before December 31,
1989, a staffing plan and description of qualifications and experience
required for all positions at superintending engineer level and above.
Furthermore, GOMID will give the Bank an opportunity to comment on any
substantial changes to the agreed organization before they are implemented
(para ;}O.01(d)).
3.11     Transmission and Distribution Component.  MSEB will implement the
transmission and distribution components of the Project. Procurement of
materials and equipment for transmission and distribution will be carried
out between 1989 and 1992. Erection works will take place in parallel but
may extend until 1994/95 as part of the 1989190 - 1994/95 Investment Plan of
MSEB. No special organization is required for implementation of these



K
-31-
components because MSEB is adequately organized to carry out the works
envisaged under the project as part of its normal operations. In order to
facilitate project monitoring and control of Bank financed investments, MSEB
agreed to prepare and furnish to the Bank, no later than March 1st of every
year, a work plan including the list of transmission lines and substations
to be financed by the Bank in the following financial year, the list of
contract packages for which tenders will be invited, and the associated
timetable for procurement of equipment and materials to be financed by the
Bank (para 6.02(c)). Considering that several MSEB units will be involved
in the implementation of the project, MSEB agreed during negotiations to
establish, before December 31, 1989 a Project Cell under the Member
(Technical) to: (a) monitor project implementation in a centralized way; (b)
serve as liaison with GOI, CEA, other government agencies and the Bank on
matters related to Bank financed schemes; (c) prepare periodic project
progress reports for concerned authorities and for the Bank; and (d)
coordinate preparation of application for disbursement of Bank funds. The
Cell wili eventually be transferred to the Planning Unit to be created in
MSEB (Annex 2.3).
Water Rights
3.12     There are no pending water rights issues that could affect the
operation of the proposed Koyna IV power station. The scheme is located on
the Koyna river which is a tributary of the Krishna river. The waters of
the Krishna river are shared by Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka.
The Krishna Waters Tribunal was set to allocate water to different uses and
shares to the riparian states. The diversion of water for power generation
from the Koyna river, will be in compliance with Krishna Waters Tribunal
Award. The Tribunal determined that as from June, 1994, nc more than
1,911 million m3 per year could be diverted for power garep:at'on at Koyna.
The Tribunal decision has been taken into account in the planning of the
scheme.
Resettlement and Land Acquisition
3.13     Koyna IV Power Station.  Resettlement for the first three stages of
this scheme was completed in 1960 to 1970. When the Maharashtra Project
Displaced Persons Act of 1976 was passed, the provisions of this Act were
extended to the families displacetd by the earlier stages of the Koyna
Project. The provisions of the Act are consistent with the Bank's
guidelines for resettlement and rehabilitation. Construction of the Koyna
IV power plant requires resettlement of unly six landless families in
Ratnagiri district. One of these families has already moved voluntarily and
the others have agreed to shift to lands provided by the Revenue Department.
3.14     The construction of Koyna Stage IV requires 479 hectares of private
land belonging to farming families residing in neighboring villages. Land
is required for spoil areas, quarries, temporarv storage and afforestation
programs. Of the total land required, some 118 hectares, which includes all
critical areas necessary to start construction, have been acquired and
another 345 hectares are expected to be in possession of GOMID before June
1989. The remaining 16 hectares have been requested from the District
Collector, Ratnagiri for processing. While no houses (village sites) will
be affected, the families owning this land could be losing income from their



-32-
productive farmlands and will be therefore entitled to resettlement and
rehabilitation under the provisions of the Maharashtra Resettlement of
Project Displaced Persons Act of 1976. Before December 31, 1989, GOMID will
furnish a report to th, Bank on the individual cases of both landowning and
landless families affected including applicability of the Act. GOMID will
subsequently, on the basis of the report, compensate the families in
accordance with the Act (para 6.01(e)).
3.15     Transmission and Distribution Component.  MSEB requires about
250 hectares of land for construction of all the substations contemplated in
the 1989/90 - 1994/95 investment plan. MSEB surveys proposed sites for new
substations on a rolling basis throughout the year, in accordance with its
needs for commissioning of new facilities. After surveys are completed,
MSEB proceeds to acquire the land and to compensate any persons displaced.
Presently the proportions of these lands owned by government and by private
individuals is unknown, but in most cases the land is occupied and
resettlement and rehabilitation of landowners, renters and squatters will be
required. At present, the exact number of persons to be displaced and the
amount of compensation to be paid are not known, but provision has been made
in the cost estimate of the sub-stations based on MSEB's recent experience.
Cost variations in this respect are not expected to exceed 1 or 2? of the
total project cost. MSEB's past compensation practice did not conform with
the Maharashtra Resettlement of Project Displaced Persons Act of 1976.  MSEB
will resettle and rehabilitate any persons displaced by MSEB's schemes in
accordance with the provisions of the 1976 Act as it may be amended from
time to time. MSEB agreed to prepare and furnish to the Bank, no later than
March 1st of every year, as part of the annual work plan mentioned in para
3.11, the resettlement and rehabilitation plan for persons displaced by any
substations under the project. The resettlement plan for persons displaced
should be based on actual surveys of the land to be acquired for the
substations. The first plan is expected to be furnished to the Bank on
December 31, 1989 (para 6.02(c)); Annex 3.11 shows the details to be
included in the plan. No resettlement of population is required for
transmission lines because only right-of-way is necessary. Landowners are
presently compensated for any loss of revenue stemming from right-of-way
restrictions or for any damage, normally minor, caused by construction of
the lines. Present arrangements in this respect are satisfactory.
Environmental Aspects
3.16     Koyna IV Power Station.  The environmental impact of Koyna IV is
negligible because no new reservoir is required and works are underground.
The Department of Environment of GOI has cleared the Koyna IV scheme. GOM
needs to obtain from the Department of Forest (DOF) the forest clearance for
about 2 hectares required for access road to the surge tank of the power
station. If an access road is not cleared, GOMID has devised an alternative
completely underground solution, which does not require forest clearance.
GOMID has applied for forest clearance for the road which should be obtained
no later than December 31, 1989 in order not to delay construction the power
plant. If clearance is not granted before December 31, 1989, GOMID will
consider alternative access (para 6.01(f)) or adoption of the underground
solution. Moreover, in order to minimize any adverse effect of construction
operations on the environmjnt, understanding was reached that GOMID will



-33-
restore all construction affected areas to an environmentally sound
coadition by adequate afforestation and treatment.  This requirement will be
part of the civil works contracts which will include specifications for
environmental treatment and corresponding pay items.
3.17     Transmission and Distribution Component.  MSEB plans to build
during 1989-92 some 1,500 to 1,800 km of transmission lines with voltages
between 132 kV to 400 kV. These lines will need about 7,000 hectares of
land for right-of-way for which MSEB will require to obtain clearance of the
Ministry of Revenue and Forests, GOM, and of the Ministry of Environment and
Forest, GOI. Procedures involved are time consuming and lengthy. MSEB
staff are well informed and able to utilize these procedures effectively as
there is a rolling program for obtaining forest clearances as part of the
normal system expansion in Maharashtra. MSEB will furnish, as part of the
annual work plan mentioned in para 3.11, evidence that forest clearance has
been obtained for all transmission lines proposed for Bank financing during
that year.
3.18     Environmental affairs are becoming an issue of major concern.
There is increased sensitivity and public interest in environmental
protection on account of the accelerated ecological degradation taking place
in the country. MSEB has to deal with this issue on a number of fronts, for
example pollution control (air, water, land) in design and operation of
thermal power plants, forest protection, water resources management for
hydropower schemes, monitoring of compliance with environmental standards
for construction and operation of power schemes, processing of clearances in
a timely way, etc.  These activities are presently dispersed throughout
different units in the SEB and there is no systematic and coordinated
approach to environmental issues for the SEB as a whole. Under the Action
Plan for Managerial Development (Annex 2.3, para 2.5), MSEB will establish,
by June 30, 1990, an Environmental and Forest Affairs Unit directly under
the Board Member (Technical) to coordinate and monitor environmental and
resettlement work in MSEB and provide training to the staff of this new
unit. Attachment 9 to Annex 2.3 shows the proposed terms of reference for
the new unit.



-34-
Proiect Costs
3.19        Table 3.1 shows a sunmary of project costs.   Annex 3.3 shows
details of project costs.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Sumary
Local     Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign       Total
------ -(Rs Nillion) --------       -------(US$ Hillion)------
A. KOYNA POVER STATION
Civil Works                          945.8        602.2    1,548.0         65.8       40.3       106.1
Equipment                            897.8      1,817.2    2,715.0         62.5      123.5       186.0
Consulting Services                   32.8          4.2        37.0         0.3        2.2         2.5
Engineering & Administration         405.0          0.0       405.0        27.7        0.0        27.7
Sub-total Koyna IV                   2,281.4      2,423.6    4,705.0        156.3      166.0       322.3
B. NSEB INVESThENTS
Equipment and Materials
for Transmission Systems         1,227.2      3,155.8    4,383.0         84.1      216.1       300.2
Erection of Lines and
Substations                      1,314.9          0.0    1,314.9         90.1        0.0        90.1
Engineering & Administration         170.9          0.0       170.9        11.7        0.0        11.7
Sub-total Transmission               2,713.0      3,155.8    5,868.8        185.9      216.1       402.0
Equipment and Materials
for Distribution System            583.0        381.0       964.0        39.9       26.1        66.0
Erection of Distribution
System                             278.9         10.3       289.2        19.1        0.7        19.8
Engineering & Administration          37.6          0.0        37.6         2.6        0.0         2.6
Sub-total Distribution                 899.4        391.4    1,290.8         61.6       26.8        88.4
Consulting Services                    19.0        11.7        30.0         1.3        0.8         2.1
Sub-total USEB Investments           3,631.6      3,558.0    7,189.6        248.7      243.7       492.5
Total Base Cost                       5,913.0     5,981.6   11,894.6        405.0      409.7       814.7
Physical Contingencies                  687.3       657.5    1,344.8         47.1       45.0        92.1
Price Contingencies                  1,786.2      1,879.7    3,665.9         86.1       85.9       172.0
Total Project Costs a/               8,386.5      8,518.8   16,905.3        538.2      540.6    1,078.8
Interest During Construction         3,287.4      1,142.5    4,429.9        197.2       67.8       265.0
Total Financing Required            11,673.9      9,661.3   21,335.2        735.4      608.4    1,343.8
a/ Including taxes and duties of about US$70 million equivalent.



-35-
The total cost of the Project including physical and price contingencies
(but excluding about US$70 million equivalent of taxes and duties) is about
$1,008 million equivalent of which US$540 million (541) represents the
direct and indirect foreign exchange costs. Interest during construction
add another US$265 million to the financing required. The project costs are
based on January 1989 forecast prices which were derived from: (a)
contractor-type analysis of unit prices (heavy-construction estimating
method) prepared for the civil works of Koyna IV; (b) recent quotations
received for similar equipment and miscellaneous civil works in India; and
(c) inquiries with manufacturers of major rotating equipment carried out in
1987. Prices have been updated to April 1989 on the basis of estimated
inflation for 1988189. Quantities were obtained from designs at tender
level for the power plant and from feasibility estimates for the
transmission and distribution components. The cost of consulting services
was based on an estimated 160 staff-months, of which about 40 staff-months
are expected to be from local consultants. In addition to the consulting
services, an allowance of 9.52 of the base cost has been made for
engineering and administration of the power plant, and of 52 for other
Project components. Physical contingencies have been provided for as
follows: (a) 252 of the base cost for all underground works; (b) 102 of the
base cost for all other works; (c) 101 of the base cost for materials and
equipment. These allowances are in line with the status of Project design
and with the risks of extra costs for underground works such as those
contemplated under the proposed Project. Price contingencies, which amount
to 212 of the base cost, are based on expected annual inflation rates of 92
for 1988/89, 82 for 1989/90, 72 for 1990/91-93 and 6.52 per year thereafter
for local costs and 5.32 for 1988189-90, 52 for 1990/91 and 4.12 per year
thereafter for foreign costs over the entire construction period. Interest
during construction were calculated on the MSEB component and on the GOM
component separately based on their respective implementation periods and on
their individual local and foreign costs. It has been assumed that US$ 220
million of the power station investment cost will be ftraded on Bank terms,
and that 202 of the MSEB transmission and distribution component will be
funded by equity and 802 by loan from GOI bearing an interest of 112 per
annum, which is the current average interest rate for MSEB's long term
borrowing.
Project Financing
3.20     The proposed Bank financing for this Project is US$400 million,
equivalent to about 312 of the total financing requirements, net of duties
and taxes. In order to finance the foreign exchange not financed by the
Bank, GOI will seek cofinancing for the project, particularly for major
equipment, from bilateral donors, export and suppliers' credits or
commercial banks. There is scope for cofinancing of materials and equipment
for the transmission and distribution component estimated at about US$150
million. GOI has already received expressions of interest frcm a number of
donor countries and suppliers of equipment. In case cofinancing
materializes for any item presently envisaged to be financed by the Bank,
the Bank will reallocate any Bank funds no longer needed for that item to
other elements of the project. Any sums not financed by cofinanciers will
be financed by GOI, GOM and, for the MSEB component, MSEB's own generated
funds. GOI will bear the exchange rate and interest rate risks. The Bank
will not finance IDC. Table 3.2 gives the project financing plan.



-36-
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
(USS Million Equivalent)
Local      Foreign        Total
IBRD                                       400           400
Cofinanciers                   -           150           150
GOI/GOH/MSEB                  736           58           794
736         608         1,344
On-Lending Arrangements
3.21      The Bank loan will be lent to India.  GOI will make the proceeds of
the loan to GOM under the standard terms for Central assistance to the
States.  GOM will in turn onlend US$170 million to MSEB for implementation
of the transmission and distribution program at the standard interest rate
it charges to its corporations and agencies but not less than 92 per annum,
with a repayment period of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years.
GOM will retain US$230 million for implementation of the Koyna IV hydropower
station.
Procurement
3.22      Table 3.3 summarizes the procurement arrangements for the proposed
Project.
Table 3.3: Summarv of Procurement Arrangements a/
(USS Million)
ICB       LCB        Other        N.A.    Total Cost
Land                                                                        1.0         1.0
Civil Works                             102.7      141.0 d/    46.7 e/                290.4
(62.8)    (17-3)                              (80.1)
Materials and Equipment                 355.8      369.3                               725.1
(309.1)     (4.8)                             (313.9)
Training and Consulting Services                                6.0                     6.0
(6.0)                   (6.0)
Engineering and Administration                                             56.3        56.3
Total                   458.5     510.3        52.7        57.3      1 078.8
(371.9)    (22.1)      (6.0)       (-)        (400.0)
a/ Amounts include taxes and duties (US$70 million), and figures between
brackets are the Bank-financed portion.
b/ Employment of consultants in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
c/ Land acquisition, administration overheads, works implemented
departmentally and items not subject to commercial procurement.
d/ Erection of transmission and distribution works.
e/ Corresponds to portion of access tunnels presently under construction by
GOMID on force account, not financed by the Bank (para 3.11).



-37-
Annex 3.4 shows the detailed procurement arrangements and Annex 3.5, the
timetable for processing the individual contract packages.
3.23     All civil works contracts for MSEB's transmission and distribution
schemes financed by the Bank with an estimated cost of US$5 million
equivalent or more will be subject to ICB. All Bank financed contracts for
supply of goods exceeding US$200,000 will also 3.6 subject to ICO, except
Bank financed survey equipment, laboratory instruments and equipment,
specialized office engineering equipment and computer hardware and software
up to an aggregate cost of US$5 million which may be procured through
international or local shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Other
materials, equipment, and civil works will be procured under LCB
procedures. Foreign suppliers will not be precluded from participating in
LCB. The Bank is satisfied that LCB procedures used by MSEB will result in
efficient and economic procurement of those elements not financed by the
Bank for the transmission and distribution program. Procurement of the
bulk of Bank financed goods for MSEB transmission and distribution program
will be carried out in three major rounds, one every year, in 1989/90,
1990191 and 1991192. To take advantage of low prices resulting from bulk
supplies, contracts may be awarded for phased deliveries over a period
extending beyond a one year horizon. 'Zontractors for construction of the
headrace tunnel and for the civil works of the Koyna IV power house and
suppliers of the turbo-generating units for Koyna IV will be prequalified.
Except for the access and tailrace tunnels to the Koyna IV power plant
(para 3.11), no other major works will be undertaken by force account.
Local civil contractors, competing under ICB, will have a 7.52 of
preference margin and local manufacturers a 152 preference or the
applicable duty, whichever is less. Major local firms are expected to be
competitive in civil works and in most of the equipment supply tenders.
Consultants will be employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
employment of consultants by the Bank and its borrowers. All Bank financed
civil works contracts, with an estimated cost of US$5 million equivalent or
more will be subject to the Bank's prior review. All Bank financed
contracts for supply of goods, with an estimated cost of US$1 million
equivalent or more, will also be subject to Bank prior review. Other Bank
financed contracts will be subject to selective post award review. About
10 contract packages for civil works and 35 contract packages for equipment
will be subject to prior Bank review, representing 90Z of the total cost of
Bank financed items. In order to simplify Bank review of documents, MSEB
and GOMID have agreed to use standard bidding documents for all Bank
financed contracts.
Disbursemuents
3.24     Disbursements of Bank funds will be made against: (a) 1002 of the
CIF cost or of the ex-factory cost (if manufactured in India) of equipment
and materials procured under ICB and international shopping for Koyna IV,
repairs of Koyna dam, MSEB transmission and distribution schemes included
in the annual programs mentioned in para 3.11; (b) 502 of locally procured
equipment for the same project components mentioned in (a); (c) 702 of the
cost cf civil works for Koyna IV including the supply and erection of the
penstocks and the repairs to the dam up to a maximum of US$40 million



-38-
equivalent and 152 thereafter; (d) 60Z of the cost of civil works and
erection of lines and substations for MSEB's transmission and distribution
schemes included in the annual programs mentioned in para 3.12; and (e)
10OZ of consulting and training services, including POE's and DRP's
services. Materials and goods for MSEB's transmission and distribution
component (except the lines for Koyna IV) will be eligible for Bank
financing only if contracts are awarded before December 31, 1992 (para
6.02(d)). Disbursements will be fully documented except for payments
against contracts for training, equipment, materials, consultants, and
compensatory afforestation contracts each less than US$200,000 equivalent,
and against contracts for civil works each less than US$500,000.  Such
disbursements will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs), the
documentation of which will not be sent to the Bank but retained by GOMID,
MSEB and CEA, as appropriate, for inspection by the supervision missions.
Standard procedures for auditing SOEs will apply. To facilitate
disbursements, a special account will be established by GOI with an
authorized allocation of US$20 million. Annex 3.6 shows a comparison of
the project disbursement profile and the standard profile for power
projects in India. In the initial four years of project implementation,
the project cumulative profile is about 52 higher th&n the standard profile
because of the time-slice approach used for the transmission and
distribution component. Annex 3.6 also shows the schedule of estimated
disbursements for Bank funds. The closing date for the loan will be
December 31, 1996.
Project Operation
3.25     The Koyna IV power plant will belong to GOM but be leased for 30
years to MSEB, which will be fully responsible for its operation and
maintenance. With the addition of 1,000 MW, the Koyna complex will operate
as a peaking facility for about 4 hours a day throughout the year. The
average annual plant factor will be 17Z. (The present installation
operates as a mid-range facility with a load factor of about 37Z). The
power plant will add 870 MW of effective capacity to the system (after
allowing for scheduled and forced outages). Since there is no addition of
water to the Koyna complex, the installation will add only capacity to the
system and a small amount of firm energy (as a result of its more efficient
units). The transmission system to link the Koyna IV power plant to the
Western Region grid is part of the proposed transmission component of this
project. The power evacuation system comprises one 400 kV double circuit
line from Koyna to Karad substation (80 km) and another 400 kV Koyna to
Lonikand double circuit line (180 km) and extension of the existing
substations at the Karad and Lonikand. GOM will furnish to the Bank, no
later than December 31, 1989, a satisfactory timetable of key actions for
implementation of the transmission lines to connect Koyna IV to the Western
Grid. GOM will implement the project in accordance with the agreed
timetable (para 6.01(g)).
Project Monitoring
3.26     GOMID and MSEB will furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports
covering physical works, consultancy services, costs, disbursements and
administrative aspects of the project. MSEB will be responsible for
coordinating the preparation of the quarterly report covering all project



-39-
components. In addition, MSEB vill furnish to the Bank annual reports of
its financial and operational results and of the Board's administrative and
managerial situation. The first quarterly progress report will be made
available to the Bank ro later than March 31, 1990.
Project Risks
3.27     The proposed Koyna IV scheme presents the usual risks associated
with major underground works, such as unexpected geological conditions that
may adversely affect project cost or the construction schedule (or both).
However, the geological exploration program carried out thus far and the
excavation works carried out for the neighboring Stages I to III, which are
also underground, indicate that the geological setting is adequate for the
proposed work, and that risks are acceptably low. The size of the turbo-
generating units proposed for Koyna IV (250 MW Francis type) is
unprecedented in India and GOMID does not thus have the necessary expertise
to deal with the selection, specifications, and inspection of manufacturing
of the turbines. To minimize the risk of technical problems, GOKID will
hire for assistance consultants specialized in this field. The
transmission and distribution components do not pose any extraordinary
technical risks since there is ample knowledge in India and in MSEB of the
technologies involved. Implementation of MSEB's proposed five-year
investment plan may be affected by delays in administrative approvals,
forese clearances and land acquisition. Budgetary constraints may also
require rescheduling of investments included in the plan. To deal with
these risks, adequate allowances for administrative processing have been
incorporated in the implementation schedule. Moreover, MSEB agreed
(para 4.16' to review with the Bank every year the updated investment
program for the following five years. As part of the review, the Bank will
need to be satisfied as to the nature and scope of any revisions needed and
the integrity of the updated program in terms of its internal consistency,
technical adequacy, and economic justification. It is possible that as a
result of rescheduling of investments, MSEB may be unable to commit the
entire loan amount before December 31, 1992 (para 3.26). To keep this risk
at a low level, the Bank envisages financing only 252 of MSEB planned
investment during the initial three years of the plan. This will give
ample flexibility to MSEB for selecting those schemes for Bank financing
which are not ccnrtrained by issues of the nature described above. There
is a risk that GOM may not allow MSEB to implement tariff adjustments
necessary to achieve the targetted 4? rate of return by FY 1993/94. Annual
tariff adjustment 1? below the targetted 7.8? annual average involves a 32
lower ROR, and a financial gap of Rs 10 billions over five years, to be
filled by GOM. Tariff adjustment 12 below inflation would reduce MSEB's
rate of return to zero, and require a contribution from GOM of Rs 70
billions over the Eighth Plan period. Although the State government
considers tariff increases with some reluctance, its past record in this
respect is impressive, with a 5? per annum real increase over the last
three years, and the budgetary implication of insufficient tariff
adjustments makes tariff adjustments below inflation rather unlikely.



-40-
IV. FINANCE
A. Introduction
4.01     Maharashtra State Electricity Board is the largest SEB in India,
with revenue in FY 1987/88 of Rs 20 billions (US$1.3 billions),
representing about 182 of total sector revenue for all-India. It manages
and operates fixed assets estimated at Rs 50 billions (increasing by about
Rs 5 billions every year) with a higher than averaae efficiency
(Annex 2.2). Although the overall financial perfcsftance of SEBs in India
is rather weak (para 1.17), MSEB stands out as a notable exception: its net
income has been consistently positive over the past five years; it met the
3Z after interest Rate of Return target established by GOI; and it has
claimed Rural Electrification Subsidies from the GOM only in exceptional
years. However, MSEB's finances suffer from an imbalanced capital
structure with an insufficient equity basis (it has a 92/08 debt/equity
ratio), resulting in high debt service. Moreover, working capital
management has been less than sa_isfactory: commercial receivables (mainly
from other States) increased recently and exceeded 3 months of revenues in
FY 1987/88 but have been reduced to 2.6 months as of January 31, 1989. In
future, rapidly increasing demand (para 1.11) will necessitate capital
investment of Rs 8 to 20 billions annually, to be funded in an increasing
proportion (up to 21Z) from self-generated funds, in order to limit
recourse to GOM funds. MSEB's creditworthiness will be strengthened with a
debt coverage of at least 1.2, and its equity base will be strengthened
from retained earaings, so as to achieve a 83/17 debt/equity ratio by
FY 1994/95. Also, commercial receivables will be reduced to 2.5 months of
revenues by FY 1989/90. Agreement was reached with MSEB during
negotiations on the content and implementation of a Financial Action Plan
(Annex 4.4) to strengthen the Board's longer term financial position (para
6.02(e)). The main actions included in the Financial Action Plan are
discussed in detail in the ensuing paragraphs.
4.02     For the preparation of the proposed project, the Bank and the
financial department of MSEB carried out a detailed diagnosis of the
financial position and perspectives for the Board. The main conclusions of
the diagnosis are that:
(i)   MSEB has a reasonably satisfactory financial performance in
terms of profitability with a 3Z rate of return on net fixed
assets at historical value in FY 1987/88 (9.6Z Bank ROR
equivalent on historical net fixed assets);
(ii) MSEB's liquidity position has gradually deteriorated as a
result of underfunding of investment as well as increasing
level cf receivables due particularly by neighbouring
States. The cash shortage issue has been addressed by
increasing short-term payables, but more particularly by
changes in FY 1986/87 in the terms of GOM loans, which
include now a six-year deferral of interest and principal
payments; and
(iii) in the absence of sufficient funding of capital investment
from equity, MSEB has become heavily indebted.



-41-
4.03      Remedies to identified weaknesses have been discussed with MSEB's
management and GOX. They include: (a) increasing profitability through
combined tariff adjustments and cost reduction, to achieve and maintain an
acceptable debt service coverage and strengthen MSEB's equity position from
its self-generated resources; (b) maintaining future growth of debt
compared to equity within reasonable limit,; (c) ensuring that GO  loans
for capital investment correspond to a more realistic estimate of MSEB's
expansion program, by improving coordination between investment funding and
plans: and (d) pursuing efforts to reduce working capital requirement by
reducing commercial receivables to their pre-1983/84 level of 2.5 months of
revenues. Financial projections have been developed on that basis,
indicating that the financial position of MSEB would then significantly
improve by 1994195.
B. Historical Performance
4.04      The main aspects of MSEB's financial performance between 1982/83
and 1987/88 are shown in Table 4.1. Annexes 4.1 to 4.3 present MSEB's
Income Statements, Balance Sheets, and Sources and Applications of Funds.
Table 4.1: MSEB's Oneratina Results - Fl 1982/83 to FY 1987/88
(in Million Rs.)
1982/83     1983/84    1984/85       1985/86    1986/87       1987/88
Total Energy (GWh)        18,058       19 872     20 158        24 198     25 764       27 885
Losses (%)                 15.2%        14.9%      14.5%          14.6       14.5%       14.5%
Sales (Gwh)               15,320       16,915     17,239        20,663     22,015       23,899
Average Tariff
(Ps./kWh)                41.11       45.92       47.22         57.09      69.34        72.37
Net Revenues               7,073        8 775     10,517        14,639     17,256       19,590
Net Income                 (234)        (250)        232           508        644          731
Gross Cash Generation a/    1737        2144       3,176         3,109      3,736        4,150
Net Cash Generation b/     (128)        t35)         733           851        685          498
Capital Investment
(including IDC)                      3,417       3,468         5,455      5,729        7,135
Debt Service Accrued c/    1,865       2,179       2,443         3,037      3,861        4,573
Commercial Receivables
(No. of Months) d/         2.2         2.4         2.5          2.9         3.0          3.7
Long Term Borrowing                    2,947       2,906         4,428      3,911        5,753
Return on Fixed Assets -
GOI e/                               (1.5%)       1 3%          2.4%        2.9%        2.9%
Return on Fixed Assets -
Bank f/                  10.3%        11.4%      13.6%          8.8%       9.3%         9.6%
Debt Service Coverage S/     .93          .98       1.30          1.38        1.22        1.14
Debt/Equity Ratio          89/11       89/11       88/12         96/04      94/06        92/08
Contribution to
Investment h/             1.5%       13.5%       12.5%          9.5%      18.7%         0.5%
Current Ratio               1.11         1.18       1.21          1.23       1.18         1.20
a/ Before debt service.
b/ After debt service accrued.
c/ Including IDC.
l/ Including disputed amounts and amounts billed but not yet due.
e/ After interest accrued excluding IDC, on historical value of net fixed assets,
in accordance with Eiectricity (SUPPlY) Act.
f/ On net fixed assets in use at historical value, before interest accrued.
/Calculated on the basis of debt service accrued excluding IOC.
/ After working capital firancing.



-42-
4.05      Profitability.  Since 1983, MSEB has maintained a reasonably
satisfactory financial position in terms of net income and contribution to
capital investment. Profitability since 1984/85 has been steady with a net
income of Re 500 to 700 million; pre-1984185 performance is not strictly
comparable, because of the change in accounting practices under the new
accounting system, and non-capitalization of interest during construction
(IDC). However, there has been some deterioration in gross cash generated
from operations from 24? of revenues in FY 1982/83 to 212 in FY 1987/88,
because of the rapid increase in personnel cost, prior to the 1985/86 freeze
on recruitment, and increasing expensive power purchases. In terms of
contribution to capital investment after debt service payment and working
capital financing, MSEB financed from 9.5Z to 19Z of its capital investment
program; however, this ostensibly satisfactory performance was attributable
to MSEB low debt service prior to FY 1985/86 (prior to FY 1985/86, GOM loans
were not repayable), and to the moratorium on interest and principal on new
GOM loans since FY 1986/87 (para 4.14).
4.06      Liquidity Position.  MSEB's liquidity position over the FY 1982/83
to 1987/88 period has deteriorated. In the past, MSEB's long-term financial
resources (own funds, long-term loans and consumers contribution) were
barely sufficient to cover capital investment (Table 4.2). Moreover,
commercial receivables have increased by Rs 1.5 to 2 billion every year
since FY 1985/86 and have reached 3.7 montbs of sales, resulting in
increasing liquidity difficulties, which were financed through increasing
short-term payables. including payables to suppliers, and higher advances of
consumers for future consumption. In the future, the increasing trend in
short-term payables and receivables is expected to be reversed, and MSEB's
working capital will be strengthened (paras 4.17 and 4.18).
Table 4.2: MSEB Investment Funding
(in Million Rs.)
1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88
Cash Generated               2,144      3,176     3,109      3,736     4,150
Debt Service Paid             1,451     1,838     1,550      3,155     3,936
Net Cash Generation aI         693      L338       1.559       579       214
Consumers Contributions        106        125       268        520       710
Commercial Loans              1,114     1,687     2,319      2,588     3,634
GOM Loans                    1,833      1,219     2,109      1,323     2,119
Total Long-Term Sources       3.746     4.369     6.255      5.010     6.677
Disbursements for Capital
Investment (excluding IDC)    3,417   3,468     4,669      4,937     6,240
Balance                       (329)       901     1.586         73       437
a/ After debt service paid.



-43-
4.07     Indebtedness.  The capital structure of HSEB displays a permanent
weakness in the small proportion of equity as comDarea to long-term debt.
The Board Debt/Equity ratio w&s from 89/11 to 92/08 over the FY 1982/83 to
nY 1987/88 period, with little improvement, as HSEB's annual retained
earnings were negligible, and GOM did not contribute to HSEB's equity. The
high level of indebtedness of the Board is a major factor contributing to
the current liquidity constraint, which has forced MSEB to resort to
exceptional financial practices for temporary relief (para 4.17), The
rationale for these exceptional practices was that on the one hand long-
term financing sources available to MSEB provided for loans with maturities
in the range of 6 to 24 years; on the other hand, annual depreciation,
fully reflected in costs of operations, is calculated on a linear basis,
over a period of time close to the asset's economic life, which frequently
exceeds 30 years. With tariffs set at a sufficient level to cover total
costs of operations, including depreciation calculated over more than 30
years, plus a 3Z ROR, funds available after payment of working expenses and
interest are insufficient to cover debt repayment calculated over 6 to 24
years, except under special arrangements such as non-repayable loans (which
became repayable from FY 1985/86 onward), as was the case prior to
FY 1985/86, or loans with deferred interest and principal payments, as is
the case now. In future, MSEB's debt/equity ratio will be reduced to
mai.atain debt service within reasonable limits (para 4.14).
C. Future Financial Situation and Performance Targets
4.08     MSEB faces serious financing issues in the future, in order to
maintain its financial viability and creditworthiness, while at the same
time satisfying demand for energy which is expected to increase from 23,899
GWh in FY 1987/88 to 41,038 GWh by FY 1994/95 (7.7? per annum). Capital
investment necessary to satisfy future demand will be much larger than in
the past: in the 19808 annual capital investment ranged from Rs. 3 to 7
billions, while in future, it will range from Rs 8 to 25 billions annually.
MSED's resource mobilization policy underpinning the Financial Action Plan
(Annex 4.4) aims at balancing the financing burden of i.ts development
between (a) consumers, through reasonable tariff adjustments; (b) GOM,
through Government funding; and (c) MSEB, through increased productivity
It also aims at avoiding any build-up of unmanageable long term debt and
debt servicing. Table 4.3 summarizes expected future financial performance
indicators for MSEB. Pro-forma Income Statements, Balance Sheets, and
Sources and Applications of Funds are given in Annexes 4.1 to 4.3; the main
underlying assumptions are detailed in Annex: 4.5, and detailed supporting
tables for performance indicators, future capital investment, financing
plan, working capital schedule, and transfers from GOM are given in Annexes
4.6 to 4.10.



-44-
Table 4.3: MSEB's Future Financial Performance Indicators - FY 1987/88 to FY 1994/95
(in Million Rs.)
1988/89  1989/90  1990191  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
Sales (6Wh)                25,698   29.501   32,625   35,640   37,744   37,787   41,038
Averae Tariff (Ps./kWh)        75        78       83        90      100       111      122
Annual Tariff Increase (%)    4.1       4.1      5.7       8.8     11.3      10.3     10.2
Net Revenues               22,760   27,185   31,820   37,444   43,385   47,835   56,996
Net Incoe                   1,372    1,338    1,710    2,096    2,368    3,259    4,287
Gross Fixed Assets in Use   45,378   53,395   67,250   84 ,068   95,008  110,087  139,748
Capital Investment          8,064   10,420   14,321   15,697   17,126   22,406   26,786
Debt Service Accrued
(including IDC)           4,769    5,836    6,767    8,298    9,990   11,907   13,705
Debt Service Paid           4,160    5,348    6,077    7,016    8,060    8,991    9,676
Commercial Receivables
(months)                    3.0      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5
Cash Available                574       687      503      471       558       595      606
Commercial Loans (Gross)    5,376    3,917    3,636    3,847    4,082    4,343    4,633
Annual Govt. Loans (Gross)      0    4,000    8,000    8,500    9,000   12,000   14,000
Net Transfers from GO a/   (2,345)   1,251    4,900    4,737    4,112    6,666    8,083
Working Ratio                 0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8       0.7      0.7
Return on Fixed Assets -
GOI b/                     2.9'%     2.9%     3.0%      3.5%     3.5%      4.0%     4.0%
Return6on Fixed Assets -
Bank c/                   10.1%      9.6%     9.3%      9.4%    10.0%    10.5%    10.2%
Return on Fixed Assets -
Bank (Revalued) d/         6.3%      5.7%     5.6%      5.8%     6.1%      6.3%     6.3%
Debt Service Coverage
(Accrued)                  1.33      1.22     1.29      1.27     1.25      1.28     1.36
Debt/Equity Ratio           90/10    88/12    87/13    86/14    85/15    84/16    83/17
Contribution to
Investment (%)            32.9%    11.0%      8.1%    11.1%    12.9%    19.0%    21.4%
Current Ratio                1.13      1.08     1.08      1.12     1.16      1.16     1.21
a/ Gross annual loans, less loan repayment, interest payment, and state taxes.
Wf After interest accrued, excluding ]DC, on net fixed assets at historical values, GOI formula.
c/ Before interest, on net fixed assets in use at historical value.
dt Before interest, on revalued net fixed assets.
Profitability and Creditworthiness
4.09      In the future, total costs of sales per kWh are projected to
remain constant in real terms over the FY 1988/89 to FY1994/95 period
(Annex 4.10). Ownership costs (depreciation plus interest charged to
operations) will increase substantially (about 32 per annum in real terms)
dr-' to the increasing cost of commercial borrowing, while working expenses
(f"el, personnel, consumables, services and lease costs) per kWh will
declined by 0.82 per annum in real terms, because of the increasing
productivity of labor. Full coverage of cost of sales plus a contribution
to capital investment of about 21Z will require that average tariff per kWh
be adjusted by about 1.2Z per annum in real terms over the FY 1988/89 - FY
1994/95 period.
4.10      MSEr hsas undertaken an extensive program for modernization of
operations (both in the technical and the administrative sectors) which is
expected to raise personnel productivity. The Manpower Plan to be prepared
by MSEB (para 2.18) will be based on a labour force increase of about 22
per annum as stated in the agreed Financial Action Plan (Annex 4.4), while
sales, and the number of consumers will increase by 8Z and 9.5Z per annum
respectively. The corresponding 52 to 62 productivity increase will



-45-
generate annual savings of about Rs 4 billions. Personnel productivity
increase is reflected in Table 4.4 below, in the decreasing labor cost per
kWh (from 0.124 in FY 1988189 to 0.087 in FY 1994195) and the remaining
number of consumers per employee (from 67 in FY 1987188 to 110 in FY
1994/95).
4.11     Despite the coummissioning of more efficient thermal units plants
(500 MW each), no reduction in fuel cost per kWh sold is projected. This
is due to the anticipated decline in coal quality, not fully reflected in
coal price structure, and the effect of more stringent emission standards
on internal consumption and unit efficiency.
Table 4.4: Enerav Cost Structure 1988-1995
(in 1988 Rs. per kWh)
1988/89 1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
Fuel                        .276   .258    .251    .250    .257    .257    .273
Personnel                  .124    .110    .101    .095    .091    .093    .087
Maintenance                .040   .038    .041    .044    .044    .047    .052
Purchase of Power          .131    .156    .156    .157    .165    .164        .!51
Other Workinq Expenses      .057   .054    .049    .045    .042    .041    .048
Total Working Expenses      .629   .615    .599    .590    .599    .603    .612
Depreciation                .052   .050    .051    .055    .058    .062    .065
Interest                   .083   .079      .082    .090    .097    .104    .108
Total Ownership Costs       .135    .129    .133    .145    .154    .165    .174
Miscellaneous             (.104)  (.089)   (.085)   (.084)   (.084)   (.OR6)   (.035)
Grand Total                 .659   .644    .633    .642    .670    .682    .701
Sales per Employee (GWh)  0.260   0.243    0.317    0.340    0.353    0.346    0.369
Consumers per Employee       78      84      86       88       95     102      110
4.12     Ownership costs per kWh sold are projected to increase in real
terms, because of MSEB's substantial generation expansion program, but also
because of its heavy capital investment in transmission (para 4.16 and
Annex 4.6). Interest charges per kWh sold is projected to increase,
because of rising long term debt (Rs 43 billions in FY 1987/88 and
Rs 120 billions in FY 1994/95), despite MSEB financing an increasing share
of its capital investment (para 4.15), and also because of the increasing
cost of borrowed funds: presently, the debt still includes "old" loans on
concessional terms but new loans are contracted at rates ranging from 92
for GOM loans to 14.7Z for IDBI loans.
4.13     In order to offset these increases in cost of sales, to finance
working capital requirements, and to contribute adequately to future
capital investment, electricity tariffs should be raised by an average 8.4Z
per annum in nominal terms over the 1988/95 period (Annex 4.1). Projected
annual tariffs are given in Table 4.3 and detailed in Annex 2.8; the
highest increases should take place after 1992/93 in order to support
MSEB's infrastructure building efforts and higher ROR target. MSEB's
profitability, measured by its cash generation before debt service and its
net income, is projected to improve, with a gross cash generation of Rs 4.1



-46-
billions and a net income of Rs 0.7 billions in PY 1987188, and
corresponding figures of Rs 15.9 billions and Rs 4.2 billions in FY 1994195
(Table 4.3 and Annex 4.1).
4.14     Future cash generation should cover long-term debt service,
working capital requirements, and MSEB's own contribution to capital
investment. Presently, MSEB's low level of debt service coverage (1.05 on
a cash basis equivalent to 1.14 on an accrual basis excluding IDC) does not
allow it to contribute significantly to its capital investment needs from
its own funds. The ongoing practice for GOM loans to bear a six-year
moratorium on interest and principal payments will push debt service
payments below the level of accrued debt service (excluding IDC). However,
deferred payments will come after six years as additional debt service
payable over 24 years period, but not to be charged to operations in these
years. This practice is acceptable provided: (i) tariff level is set based
on requirements to meet debt service accrued, which will be substantially
higher than debt service paid; (ii) the corresponding cash savings are
utilized to increase HSEB's self-financing rate, thereby reducing new
borrowings for capital investment and future debt service when rescheduled
debts become payable; and (iii) financial performance is evaluated on the
basis of debt service accrued, and long-term debt including deferred
interest. Alternative solutions to strengthen MSEB's debt servicing
capacity exist, such as conversion of some of GOM loans into equity, or
perpetual interest bearing loans. Under the Financial Action Plan (Annex
4.4, para 2.3), GOM and MSEB will examine by March 31, 1990, alternative
financial packages and financing terms for GOM contributions to MSEB's
capital investment program. With an improved earning capacity (para 4.13)
and the investment financing policy developed in para 4.16, MSEB's debt
service coverage ratio on accrual basis is projected to improve from 1.14
at present to 1.20 in FY 1989/90, and above 1.20 in FY 1990/91 and
thereafter -- equivalent to 1.05 at present, 1.09 in FY 1989/90, 1.19 in
FY 1990/91, and up to 1.65 in FY 1994/95, on a cash basis (Annex 4.4, para
3). Agreement was reached with MSEB during negotiations that it will take
all necessary measures, including tariff adjustments, so that cash
generated from operations divided by interest accrued, (defined as interest
charged to operations), plus debt repayment, is higher than 1.00 in FY
1989/90, and 1.20 in FY 1990/91 and thereafter (para 6.02(f)).
Indebtedness and Capital Structure
4.15     Presently, MSEB is financed 962 on borrowed funds (para 4.07).
Equity is only Rs 3.7 billions (4Z of long-term funds), of which
Rs 2.4 bllions are consumer contributions, and long-term debt represents
Rs 43.4 billions (comprising Rs 24 billions of GOM loans, and including Rs
6.9 billions of deferred debt service on GOM loans). This high level of
indebtedness, which is one of the causes of MSEB's liquidity constraints,
will be gradually reduced by raising MSEB's own contribution to investment
from its FY 1987/88 level of 0.5Z up to 8Z by FY 1990/91, 112 in
FY 1991/92, 13Z in FY1992/93, and 202 or more from FY 1993/94 onward, as
indicated in the agreed Financial Action Plan (Annex 4.4). Financial
projections indicate that to achieve these capital investment self-
financing rates, and the profitability level mentioned in para 4.13, MSEB's
financial rate of return (after interest charged to operations and
calculated on net fixed assets at historical value) should be no less than
3Z in FY 1989/90 and FY 1990/91, 3.5Z in FY 1991/92 and FY 1992/93, and 42



-47-
from FY 1993/94 onward as agreed with MSEB (para 6.02(g)), (equivalent to
respectively 5.52, 6Z, and 6.31 on revalued net fixed assets, according to
Bank definition). This will permit equity to reach Rs 9.5 billions by FY
1990/91; Rs 12.3 billions in FYl991/92 and Rs 24.6 billions by FY 1994/95,
corresponding to a Debt/ Equity ratio of 87/13; 86/14; and 83/17 in the
corresponding years (Annex 4.4, para 3), as indicated in the agreed
Financial Action Plan.
Capital Investment Plan
4.16     MSEB's capital investment program for the FY 1987/88 to FY 1994/95
period is given in Annex 4.6. It was reviewed and found to be technically
and economically sound. The proposed five-year plan envisages an increase
in capital investment, including IDC, from Rs 7.1 billions in FY 1987/88 up
to Rs 26.8 billions in FY 1994195 (a 20Z annual increase). The priority
given by MSEB to transmission and distribution is reflected in high capital
investment in the sector from FY 1991/92 to FY 1993/94 (about Rs 6 billions
annually); investment in generation will increase from Rs 3 billions in FY
1988/89 to Rs 13 billions in FY 1994/95, to meet increasing demand; and
capital investment in rural electrification is projected to decrease from
Rs 2.6 billions in FY 1988/89 to Rs 1.3 billions in FY 1994/95, as
Maharashtra's rural electrification program approaches completion.  Capital
investment program in generation and in transmission for the outer years of
the plan may need to be adjusted, to take into account limitations in the
MSEB's implementing capacity, possible budgetary constraints (para 4.20),
and possible changes in the demand pattern. As part of MSEB's Corporate
Plan (Annex 2.3), the investment plan will be revised annually. Agreement
was reached with MSEB during negotiations that annual revisions to the
five-year revolving capital investment and financing plan will be discussed
with the Bank, by December 31 of each year (para 6.02(h)).
Working Capital
4.17     Receivables.  Projected working capital requirements of MSEB
depend on its ability to recover expeditiously commercial receivables,
which have steadily increased from 2.5 months of revenues (Rs 1.2 billions)
in FY 1982/83 to 3.7 months in FY 1987/88 (Rs 5.5 billions). The analysis
of commercial receivables by category of consumers indicates that the
situation is markedly different for receivables from neighboring States on
the one hand, and other consumers on the other hand. For the latter
category (about 6.5 millions of consumers), receivables, including
consumption billed but not yet payable, represent on the average an
acceptable 1.5 months of revenues; for neighboring States (Gujarat,
Karnataka, and Goa), receivables increased from 4 months in FY 1982/83 to
8 months in FY 1987/88. However, the most recent information indicates
that following MSEB's efforts to redress the situation, commercial
receivables excluding disputed amounts have been reduced to less than Rs
4.3 billions (2.6 months of sales). Agreement was reached with MSEB during
negotiations that total commercial receivables excluding disputed amounts,
but including consumption billed but not yet payable, will be reduced to
less than 2.5 months of revenues from FY 1989/90 onward (para 6.02(i)), as
agreed under the on-going Chandrapur Thermal Power Project. Though
reduction of receivables from neighboring States may involve politically
sensitive issues, the recent deterioration in the situation and the risk of



-48-
MSEB increasingly delaying its own payments to other public and private
undertakings because of cash shortage (para 4.18) makes it necessary for
MSEB to act rapidly to reduce receivables from neighboring States.
Understanding was reached with MSEB that from September 30, 1989 onward,
late payments by neighbouring States will be subject to a 18Z penalty
interest surcharge, and that MSEB will make its best efforts to secure
confirmed letters of credit for any outstanding amount.
4.18     Commercial Payables.  MSEB purchases fuel from CIL and oil
companies; energy from Tata, NTPC and other States; and transport services
from Indian Railways. The average payment delay as of end-FY 1987/88 was
3.8 months of purchases, but it has been increasing alarmingly over the
past three years, creating financial difficulties with suppliers, including
power suppliers such as NTPC, most of which are also in a tight cash
situation. The recent trend should be redressed, and to that effect,
a-reement was reached during negotiations that MSEB will reduce commercial
payables to less than three and a half months of consumption (i.e. fuel and
consumables and purchases of power) by March 31, 1990; three months by
March 31, 1991; and two months from March 31, 1992 onward para 6.02(j)).
Investment Financing Policy
4.19     The Board's investment financing plan for the period FY 1987/88 to
FY 1994/95 is given in Table 4.5 below. Non-Government funding (market
bonds and commercial banks loans), are projected to increase by about 9Z
annually, from Rs 2.6 billionb in FY 1986/87 to Rs 4.6 billions in FY
1994/95, amounting to Rs 29.8 billions over the FY 1988/89 to 1994/95
period. Annual GOM loans will increase from Rs 1.3 billions in FY 1986/87
to about ks 14 billions in FY 1994/95, and will amount to Rs 55.5 billions
over the FY 1988/89 to FY 1994/95 period. wY .le MSEB will provide Rs 27
billions (23Z of financing requirements) from internally generated funds.



-49-
Table 4.5: Investment Financing Plan - FY 1988189 to FY 1994195
(in Million Rs.)
FUNDS REQUIRED                                     Amount        x
Capital Investment                                114,820
Increase Working Capital                            2,042
Total Funds Required                            116,862
SOURCES OF FUNDS
________________
Cash Generation                   71,272
Less: Debt Service (Paid)      (44,214)
Net Cash Generation                                27,058        23
Consumers' Contributions                            4,469         4
Borrowings
GOM                           55,500
PFC                            2,150
REC                             9,349
Bonds and Commercial          18,335
Total Borrowings                                   85,335        73
Total Sources                                   116,862       100
State Government Transfers
4.20     Although in the past the State Government contributed about 502 to
MSEB's investment, transfers from GOM to MSEB were negative over the last
three years, because capital outflows including State taxes and 0OM debt
service payments, exceeded capital inflows including new loans and
subsidies. The Board therefore did not burden State Government finances.
In the future, MSEB's increasing investment program will make the Board
more dependent on GOM's net transfers, which will reach Rs 4.1 billions by
FY 1992/93, despite increasing borrowings from non-government sources and
Rs 8.1 billion in FY 1994/95. It is in this context that resource
mobilization from consumers, through adequate tariff policy (para 4.13),
and increased ROR, to alleviate MSEB's reliance on GOM's bud-et, becomes
particularly important.



-50-
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.01     The economic analysis of the proposed project is reported fully in
Annex 5.1 and summarized below. Because India's power systems are planned
on a regional basis, economic analysis focuses on the Western Region power
system, where the proposed project is located.
Electricity Demand In The Western Region
5.02     Electricity consumption in the Western Region and projected
demands through 1999/2000 are summarized in Annex 5.1, Tables 1 and 2.
Between 1981/82 and 1987/88, the maximum load met increased at 11.4Z per
annum.  Through 1999/2000, CEA projects that maximum demand will increase
at 8.6Z per annum (Annex 5.1, para 3). Similarly, while energy consumption
through 1987/88 increased at 12.72 per annum, CEA projects growth through
1999/2000 will average 8.42 per annum. Demand growth is expected to be led
by domestic consumers (132 per annum), while growth in agricultural demand
is expected to ease (from 12.8Z per annum to 8.6Z per annum). Demand by
industry is expected to increase at 7.42 per annum, in line with current
growth. Even though generating capacity is projected to increase at 10.12
per annum, the projections suggest that in 1995/96 (when Koyna IV would be
commissioned), the Western Region will still face a shortage of generating
capacity of about 162.
5.03     Between 1981/82 and 1985/86, India's elasticity of electricity
consumption to economic growth was approximately 1.6. In the Western
Region, this elasticity was approximately 2.1, reflecting the high share of
industry in the Region's economic activity. Some reduction in the Region's
elasticity is likely (Annex 5.1, para 4). Even so, compared with GOI's
targets for economic growth of 62 per annum under the Eighth Plan and
growth of about 52 per annum thereafter, projected increases in electricity
demand in the Western Region of 8.42 per annum appear conservative. This
suggests therefore, that there is little likelihood that the Western Region
development program as presently planned will not be utilized fully upon
commissioning. The project analysis reported below suggests further that,
in the event that some adjustment of the program is required, deferral of
other projects would provide greater cost savings than deferral of Koyna
IV; hence that there is little likelihood of Koyna IV not being utilized
fully upon commissioning.
Least-Cost Analysis
5.04     CEA and the Bank have undertaken studies to examine: (i) the
justification for the inclusion of Koyna IV in the least-cost program for
the Western Region; and (ii) the optimum size of the project and proposed
date of commissioning (Annex 5.1, paras 5 to 8). Compared with alternative
projects that would provide approximately the same additional peak
generation capacity as Koyna IV, the analysis shows the program including
Koyna IV offers a cost advantage in terms of the present value of total



-51-.
system costs of approximately 8.6Z (about US$430 million). 11/ For Koyna
IV to lose this advantage, the costs of the project would have to triple,
or the fuel costs of thermal plant would have to decrease 27Z in real terms
(Annex 5.1, para 6). The analysis also confirms that the optimum capacity
of the project is 1000 MW (Annex 5.1. Table 4) and that to mximize
benefits, the project should be constructed as soon as possible (Annex 5.1,
Table 5). An installation of 750 MW instead of 1000 MW would increase the
present value of system costs by 2.6Z (about US$129 million), while a one-
year delay in commissioning would increase costs by 1.51 (about US$75
million).
Program and Prolect Analyses
5.05     Benefits that will be derived from the components of the proposed
project cannot easily be separated from benefits that will be derived from
other investments in generation, transmission and distribution in the
Western Region. Because of this, it is appropriate to focus cost-benefit
analysis primarily on a time-slice of the Western Region development
program as a whole. However, when prices are below marginal costs (as
power prices mostly are in India), demand can be inflated and can lead to
an investment program which is larger than can be justified purely on
economic grounds. In these circumstances, an acceptable program rate of
return can mask uneconomic projects. Analysis of the Western Region
program therefore has been supplemented with a separate analysis of Koyna
IV to ensure the project is economic, as well as the development program
time-slice as a whole. The time-slice analysed is 1989/90 to 1997/98.
This period covers implementation and the first two years operation of
Koyna IV and the period of implementation of most other new generation
projects to be started in the Western Region over the next few years.
Program and Proiect Costs
5.06     Capital and operating and maintenance costs of the 1989/90 to
1997/98 time-slice of the Western Region development program are shown in
Annex 5.1, Table 6. Corresponding costs for the Koyna IV project are shown
in Annex 5.1, Table 7. All costs have been converted to economic terms by
removing taxes and duties and by shadow-pricing local costs, using an SCF
of 0.8. Investments in transmission and distribution are not planned
integrally with generation. For the regional program, an allowance for
associated transmission and distribution investments has been included at
60Z of generation investments (Annex 5.1, para 11). For Koyna IV,
transmission investments are the costs of reinforcing the lines which
connect the existing Koyna station to bulk supply delivery points. For
ill These comparisons have allowed for the higher energy generation of
thermal alternatives to Koyna IV. As the Western Region is
predominantly short of power rather than energy (Annex 5.1, Table 1),
these additional benefits nostly accrue in the form of fuel cost
savings from displacing more costly thermal plant from operation.



-52-
associated distribution investments, a small allowance has been made in
proportion to the small amount of incremental energy that vill be provided
by Koyna IV (Annex 5.1, para 12). Operating and maintenance costs are
assumed to be 2.52 per annum of the capitals cost of coal-fired and gas-
fired plant, 1.13t per a*num of the capital costs of hydroelectric plant,
and 1.02 per annum of the capital costs of transmission and distribution
(Annex 5.1. para 13). Transmission and distribution losses are assumed to
be 15 of gross generation. New coal stations are assumed to consume
0.61 kg of coal and 15 ml of oil per kWh generated. The economic costs of
coal and oil are assumed respectively to be Rs 193 per tonne and Rs 3.36
per liter. Gas power stations are assumed on average to consume 0.23m3 per
kWh generated. The opportunity cost of gas is assumed to be Rs 1,920 per
thousand m3 (Annex 5.1. para 14).
Program and Project Benefits
5.07     Benefits that will be derived from the Western Region development
program mostly will be in the form of incremental electricity consumption.
Additional benefits may be realized through reducing supply costs during
off-peak periods and through improving the quality of supplies. However,
these are likely to be small by comparison and have not been factored into
either the program or project analyses (Annex 5.1, paras 15-16). Partly,
benefits of the development program can be measured by the incremental
revenues generated through the increase in consumption. Similarly, the
benefits of Koyna IV can partly be measured by the incremental revenues
that will be yielded through concentrating the station's generation into
peak periods. 12/ At present, the average tariff level in the Western
Region is estimated to be 87 paise per kWh. By 1995/96, it is expected to
reach the equivalent of 100 paise per kWh (in constant 1989/90 prices).
After 1995/96, the average tariff level has been assumed to remain constant
in real terms. Applying an SCF of 0.8, the corresponding economic value
associated with incremental consumption is assumed to be 70 paise per kWh
in 1989/90 rising to 80 paise per kWh in 1995/96 (Annex 5.1, para 18). The
incremental economic value of concentrating Koyna IV's generation into peak
periods also is estimated to be 80 paise per kWh (Annex 5.1. para 26).
5.08     The total economic benefits associated with incremental
consumption will be at least equal to what consumers are required to pay
for additional supplies (otherwise consumption would not increase). These
associated net benefits to consumers (consumezers' surplus) are directly
attributable to the increase in consumption facilitated by the development
program. In the program analysis, consumer surplus is estimated to be
extended to all categories of consumers. The rate of net benefit imputed
has been conservatively assumed to be half the savings consumers realize
through access to public electricity supply compared with the additional
costs of autogeneration (Annex 5.1, paras 19 to 22, and Table 10) In
economic terms, this rate of benefit is estimated to be 41 paise per kWh.
This brings estimated total economic benefits to 111 paise per kWh in
1989/90 rising to 121 paise per kWh in 1995/96. In the project analysis,
consumer surplus is estimated to be confined largely to peak period
consumers, which are domestic, commercial and agricultural consumers. On
the 302 of consumption accounted for by these consumers, surplus is
estimated to be 180 paise per kWh at 1989/90 prices (Annex 5.1, para 29).
12/ The analysis assumes that two-part tariffs will be in effect by the
time Koyna IV is commissioned.



-53-
Zconomic Rates of Return
Program
5.09     The estimated rates of return of the 1989190 to 1997198 time-slice
of the Western Region development program aret
ti) 7.2Z counting as benefits only incremental revenues; and
(ii) 14.0? when allowance is made for associated consumer surplus.
With a 122 discount factor, the NPV of the time-slice (including the
allowance for consumer surplus) is estimated at Rs 12,294 millions
(equivalent to US$820 millions, (Annex 5.1, para 30).
5.10     Even including the allowance for associated consumer surplus,
sensitivity analyses show the program could absorb adverse changes in costs
and benefits amounting to only about 10? before some reconfiguration of the
program would be required for it to remain economic (in the sense of
earning a return greater than 12?). Similarly, as presently configured,
the program could withstand an implementation delay of only one year. The
project analysis demonstrates that in the event some adjustment to the
Western Region program is required, Koyna IV would not be a preferred
candidate for deferral. It must also be remembered that set against these
adverse sensitivities are equal likelihoods of more favourable outcomes for
the development program.
Proiect
5.11     The estimated rates of return of the proposed Koyna IV project
(including associated investments in transmission and distribution) ares
(i) 9.52 counting as benefits only incremental revenues; and
tii) 18.3Z when allowance is made for associated consumer surplus.
Including associated consumer surplus, the NPV of the project is estimated
at Rs 2,891 millions (US$193 millions) (Annex 5.1, para 33).
5.12     Sensitivity analyses suggest that the returns (including consumer
surplus) yielded by Koyna IV are more robust than those yielded by the
program as a whole. The Koyna IV project could absorb adverse changes in
costs and benefits amounting to about 40? and remain economic. Similarly,
the project is able to withstand a delay in implementation of more than
three years. Variations greater than these are considered very unlikely.
Hence there is a strong likelihood that Koyna IV will prove economic. The
results demonstrate that deferral of other projects in the Western Region
program would provide greater economies than deferral of Koyna IV in the
event that some reconfiguration of the program became desirable (Annex 5.1,
para 34).



-54-
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOM:
(a) on the review of the technical aspects of Koyna IV by a panel
of experts in accordance with Terms of Reference agreed with
the Bank and that it will: (i) furnish for Bank review the
revised composition of the Panel of Experts including the
qualifications of the proposed members; and (ii) no later
than December 30, 1989, the roster from which POE members
will be selected and the qualifications of candidates
included in the roster, for comments (para 3.07);
(b)  on the appointment, before December 31, 1989 of an
independent international dam review panel to: (i) review the
present condition of Koyna dam; (ii) determine the scope of
additional investigations that may be required; (iii)
establish the need for specialized consultants; (iv) review
the result of the investigations and repaid.a of said dam
(para 3.08);
*c) that it will furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1990, a
report on the recommendation of panel mentioned in (d) above;
and, if recommended by the panel, retain consultants by
June 30, 1991, to assist GOM in implementing recommendations
of said panel (para 3.08);
(d) to revise suitably the organization of the project unit, and
to give to the Bank an opportunity to comment on any
substantial change in the organization arrangements for
project implementation (para 3.10);
(e) to furnish a report to the Bank before December 31, 1989, on
the individual cases of both land-owning and landless
families affected by construction of Koyna IV, including
applicability of the Maharashtra Project Displaced Persons
Act of 1976, and to compensate, on the basis of the report,
the families in accordance with the Act (para 3.14);
(f) that, if forest clearance for the access road to the surge
tank is not granted before December 31, 1989, GOMID will
consider alternative access (para 3.16); and
(g) to furnish to the Bank, no later than December 31, 1989, a
satisfactory timetable for key actions for implementation of
the transmission lines to connect Koyna IV to the Western
grid, and to implement the project in accordance with the
agreed timetable (para 3.25).



-55-
6.02     During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOM and MSEB:
(a)  on the content and implementation timetable of an Action Plan
for Managerial Development (para 2.12);
(b)  that by December 31, 1989, MSEB will furnish to the Bank a
copy of the final report of the tariff study and afford to
the Bank an opportunity to comment on its proposed load
management initiatives and tariff adjustment (para 2.17);
(c) to prepare and furnish to the Bank, no later than March 1st
of every year, a work-plan including the list of transmission
lines and substations to be financed by the Bank in the
following financial year, the list of contract packages for
which tenders would be invited, the associated timetable for
procurement of equipment and materials to be financed by the
Bank (para 3.11), and the resettlement and rehabilitation
plan for persons displaced, based on actual surveys
(para 3.15);
(d)  that material and goods for the transmission and distribution
component (except the lines for Koyna IV) would be eligible
for Bank financing only if contracts are awarded before
December 31, 1992 (para 3.24);
Ce)  on the content and implementation of a Financial Action Plan
(para 4.01);
(f)  that it will take all necessary measures, including tariff
adjustments, to maintain its debt coverage ratio, defined as
cash generated from operations divided by debt service
accrued in the previous year, including interest during
construction, is above 1.00 in financial year 1989/90, and
1.20 from financial year 1990/91 onward (para 4.14);
(g)  that MSEB's financial rate of return after interest (GOI
definition) will be no less than 3Z in financial year 1989/90
and 1990/91; 3.52 in financial year 1991/92 and 1992/93; and
42 from financial year 1993/94 onward (para 4.15);
(h)  to discuss annually with the Bank, by December 31 of eacb
year, revisions to its five-year revolving capital investment
and financing Plan (para 4.16);
(i)  to reduce total commercial receivables less any disputed
amount to less than 2.5 months of revenues from March 31,
1990 onward (para 4.17); and



-56-
(j) to reduce commercial payables to less than 3.5 months of
consumption of fuel and consumables, plus purchases of power,
by March 31, 19901 3.0 months by March 31, 1991; and 2.0
months from March 31, 1992 onward (para 4.18).
Recommendation
6.03     On the basis of the proje~:t justification and the agreements to be
reached during negotiations, the proposed Project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$400 million equivalent.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
ALL-INDIA: ELECTRICIM SUPPLY AND DEMAND
Actual                                           Expected
Annual                                                     Annual
19#1/82      10#7/88     Increae (Un         198966)      1994/96     1999/2000      Increase CU
1. Poer
(a) Installed Capacity (MW)                82,347       58,90C          6.9              50,091     108,916       165,461           9.6
(b) Generating Capability (MW)             20, 21       31,226          7.6              84,767      61,419        09,865          10.0
(e) Peak Load (OM)                         20,121 pj    89,660         12.0 y            43,t80      72,711       112,819           9.0
(d) Deficit (MW/S of Peak Load)             n.x.         6,436/          -                8,541/     11,203/       12,9C4/           -
21.8                            19.7        15.5          11.5
2. Enemy
(a) Generating Capability (GWh)           118,827       169,417         8.9             211,582    381,856        629,067          10.4
(b) Energy Requirement (GWh) S/           113,827 pj   210,492         10.6             220,O62     884,764       598,778           9.0
(c) Deficit (Jh/% of Requirement)           n.x.        21,075/          -               18,060/      2,906/       J8,314/           -
10.0                             7.9         0.8           6.9
!/ Constrained by supply capecity. No *etimtes are avai labl- on the *xtent of suppresse demand in 1981/82.
hi Growth rates are overstted as 1961/82 data ref loet supply rather than demand.
f  Total final deand for energy plus trnsmission and distribution losss                                       ',
Source: Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December 1987, plus Bank estimates.



-58-
Annex 1.1
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND DEMAND
ALL-INDIA: ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY MAIN CONSUMER CATEGORY
Actual (X)                   Estimated (2)
Consumer Category        1981/82    1987/88       1988189    1994/95    199912000
1. Domestic                11.6        13.5         13.9        16.7        19.7
2. Public Lighting           0.9        0.9          0.9         0.9         0.9
3. Public Water             2.3         2.2          2.2         2.3         2.4
4. Agriculture             16.9        18.1         18.1        17.6        17.1
5. Industry                57.7        55.3         54.9        52.6        50.1
6. Traction                 2.8         2.4          2.4         2.4         2.4
7. Commercial a/             7.8        7.6          7.6         7.5         7.4
Total                10(.0       100.0        100.0      100.0       100.0
a/ Includes consumption by other miscellaneous categories of consumers.
Sources Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December 1987,
plus Bank estimates.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
MAHARASHTRA: ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND DEMAND
Actual                                         Expected
Annual                                                   Annual
1961/62      1987/86     Increase ()        lo8s/9     1994/95      1999/2000     Increas (e
1. Powr
(a)  tanUlled Capacity (MW)                4,822        7,272         9.1               7,482      11,225       15,744          7.0
(b)  enerating CapabWllty (MW)             2,998        4,072         7.7               4,981       7,880       11,632          8.1
(a) Pek Load (MW)                          2,993        5 5,411       10.4  /           5,906      86,62        12,324          6.9
(d) Deficit (MW/I of Peak Load)            n.s.           7J9/         -                  974/        948/         692/          -
18.6                                       10.7          5.6
2. Enor
(a) Gnerating Capability (GUh)            18,118       29,996         8.6              31,561      49,020       70,702          7.0
(b) Energy Requiremnt (GWh) 3/            18,118 3/   80,041          9.2 y            83,488      50,659       71,216          7.1
(c) Deficit (GWh/U of Requirement)         n.a.           648/         -                1,864/      1,619/         S18/          -
2.1                            5.6         3.0          0.7
3/ Constrained by supply capacity. No stimates are available on the extent of suppressed demand In 1981/82.
G Growth rates are overstated as 1981/82 data reflect supply rather than deand. 
g/ Total final demnd for energy plus trnsmission and distribution lose.                                                                     .
0.
Source:  Thirteenth Electric Power Survwy of India, CEA, December 1967, plus B3ank estimates.                                               1t1h%



-60-
Annex 1.2
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND DEMAND
MAHARASHTRA: ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY MAIN CONSUMER CATEGORY
Actual (Z)                 Estimated (Z)
Consumer Category       1981/82    1987/88      1988/89    1994/95    1999/2000
1. Domestic               13.2        15.4        15.7       17.8        19.6
2. Public Lighting         1.1         1.0         1.0        0.9         0.9
3. Public Water            2.2         2.8         2.9        3.3         3.6
4. Agriculture            13.2        18.5        18.6       19.1        19.5
5. Industry               56.5        52.2        51.9       50.5        49.1
6. Traction                5.4         3.2         3.1        2.5         2.1
7. Commercial a/           8.4         6.9         6.8        5.9         5.2
Total               100.0      100.0        100.0      100.0      100.0
a/ Includes consumption by other miscellaneous categories of consumers.
Source: Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December 1987,
plus Bank estimates.



-61-                                    Annex 1.3
INDIA
pJJI9A5jTRA POVER PRJECT
Pviou  Lons Wad  reditsto Indan Pes Scor   mumrv 31. 1989)
tmwm iutn U4  iionl
Approval   Closing     Loan       Amount
Borrower   IBRD Loans                              Number     Date      Date      Amount      Disbursed    Status
India      First DYC - Bokaro - Konar                 23      4/50       2/56      18.50        16.72     Complete
India      Second DVC - Naithon - Panchot             72      1/53       6/58      19.50        10.50     Complete
Tata       Trombay Power                             106     11/54       9/66       16.20       13.85     Complete
Tata       Second Trombay                            164      5/57       9/66       9.80         9.66     Cooplete
India      Third DVC - Durgapur                      203      7/58       6/65      25.00        22.00     Complete
India      Koyna Power                               223      4/59       4/65      25.00        18.70     Complete
India      Power Transmission                        416      6/65      12/70      70.00.       50.00     Complete
India      Second Kothagudem Power                   417      6/65      12/70      14.00        13.97     Complete
Tata       Third Trombay Thermal Power              1549      4/78      12/ 84     105.00      105.00     Complete
India      Ramaqundam Thermal Power (*              1648      1/79       6/87      50.00        45.15     Complete
India      Farakka Thermal Power (N                 1887      6/80      12/88      25.00        12.50
India      Second Ramagundam Thermal Power (*)      2076     12/81       6/89     300.00      209.55
India      Third Rural Electrification              2165      6/82       6/88     304.50      295.44      Complete
India      Upper Indravati Hydro                    2278      5/83       6/91     156.40         0.39
India      Central Power Transmission (*)           2283      5/83       3/89     250.70        26.06
India      Indira Sarovar                           2416      5/ 84      6/92      17.40         4.92
India      Second Farakka Thermal Power (*)         2442      6/84      12/91     300.80        39.78
Tata       Fourth Trombay Thermal                   2452      6/84       6/90     135.40       90.74
India      Chandrapur Thermal Power                 2544      5/85      12/92     300.00        64.44
India      Rihand Power Transmission (*)           2555       5/85      12/89     250.00       114.26
!ndia      Kerala State Power                       2582      6/85       9/91     176.00        12.58
India      Combined Cycle (*)                      2674       4/86      12/91     485.00       145.05
India      Karnataka Power                          2827      6I87      12195     330.00        14.00
India      National Capital Power Supply (*)        2844      6/87       6/95     485.00       63.50
India      Talcher Thermal Power (*                 2845      6/87       3/96     375.00        18.00
India      Second Karnataka Power                   2938      5/88      12/96     260.00       20.00
India      Uttar Pradesh Power                      2957      6/88      12/96     350.00       25.30
India      Nathpa Jhakri Power                      3024      3/89      12/97     485.00
Total                                                                5,339.20    1,462.06
(Total Loans for NTPC Projects)                                     (2,511.50)
IDA Credits
India      Fourth DVC - Durgapur                      19      2/62      12/69      21.88       19.88      Complete
India      Second Koyna Power                         24      8/62       9/70      21.10       21.10      Complete
India      Kothagudem Power                           37      5/63      12/68      24.13       24.13      Complete
India      Beas Equipment                             89      6/66       6/74      26.59       26.32      Complete
India      Second Power Transmission                 242      4/71       3/77      75.00       72.93      Complete
India      Third Power Transmission                  377      3/73       9/78      85.00       85.00      Complete
India      Rural Electrification                     572      7/75      12/80      57.00       57.00      Complete
India      Fourth Power Transmission                604       1/76       6/83     150.00      149.87      Complete
India      Sin rauli Thermal Power (*)               685      3/77       6/84     150.00       150.00     Complete
India      Korba Thermal Power (*)                  793       4/78       3/86     200.00      199.92      Complete
India      Ramagundam Thermal Power (1               874      1/79       6/87     200.00      200.00      Complete
India      Second Rural Electrification             911       5/79       3/84     175.00       171.74     Complete
India      Second Singrauli Thermal Power (*        1027      5/80       3/89     300.00      285.18
India      Farakka Thermal Power (*                 1053      6/80      12/88     225.00      215.82
India      Second Korba Thermal Power (*)           1172      7/81      12/89     400.00      307.50
India      Upper Indravati Hydro                    1356      5/83       6/91     170.00       90.23
India      Indira Sarovar                         SF020       5/84       6/92      13.00        0.56
India      Indira Sarovar                           1613      5/86       6/92      13.20
Total                                                                2,306.90    1,861.36
(Total Credits for NTPC Projects)                                   (1,475.00)
(* NTPC Projects



-62-
Annex 2.1
IIDIA
UAAIAASITRi POVWR PROJICT
PERFORNACE INDICATORS. INDiA AID SELICTiD ASIAN COUNTRIES, 1981
I.   & D loases.                                  IV. Customers/ laployee
1. India                    27                     1. India                50    (1986)
2. China                     15                    2. China
3. Pakistan                 31                     3. Pakistan ( [ISC       55
4. Bangladesh               39                     4. Bangladesh             1
5. Idonesia                  18                    5  Indonesia               I
II. Electricity Access (   !                        V. Capacity factor ( I
1. India                -1-/14                     1. India                 42
2. China                 -/-1-                     2. China                 51
3. Pakistan             -/-/24                     3. Pakistan              44
4. Bangladesh           221214                     4. Bangladesh            34
5. Indonesia           5018/16                     5. Indonesia             40
III. Energy sales/ Employee ( Gib                   VI. Electricity produced, per capit (lwh
1. India                 0. 37   (1986)            1. India                191
2. China                 0.246                     2. China                312
3. Pakistan ( KSC I    0.227                       3. Pakistan              190
4. Bangladesh           00T2                      4. Bangladesh            33
5. Indonesia               0.2                     5. Indonesia              73
Definitions:
I. t & D losses:             Utility subtotal generation - Total sales in GCb) I 100
Utility subtotal generation in Gvt
II. Electricity Access:       Percentage measurement of the extent of electrification
urban/ raral/total        in a country.
V. Capacity Factor            A seasure of the power plant utilization and it is
calculated according to the formula:
Total gross generation in Ibh             1100
Total installed capacity 1 8760 in IV
source: 1981 Power! Energy Data Sheets for 100 Developing Couantries
The World Bank, larch 1984
Asian Electric power Utilities Data Book
Asian Development Bank, Bay 1983



-63-                                            Annex 2.2
'AlA
niIADSI?DA mu  POICT
& CQPlISOI Of 01  PIOIAOnICt O0  IsIs AGD OtU1  611S, 116?
SI  s               tI & D       bployees    EIployees           iverage     Debt service  Operating   Average cost  iverage cost
losses.     per            pr               Tariff      ratio          ratio       0 & I          Ads. and 1st.
I           Gwk sold.      1000 couumrs  Paiue/ Ilk                                 Paisg/ 5 b    Paige/ Ilk
1986                                        1986
1. IAdhra Pradesh       19           5.4           14.4             50.3         1.02           92.1         3.1          11.4
2. Assam                21          19.2           67.6             56.5        -0.33          113.t        15.1          26.9
3. Bihar                22          10.8           37.8             79.0        -0.35          128.8         8.1          25.7
4. Gujarat              24           4.3           10.4             T8.6         0.32           94.6         4.1           11.2
5. laryana              18           8.6           21.1             42.1          0.17         126.3         6.5          12.3
6. Rimachal Pradesh    20           13.5           15.2             49.0          0.27          87.9        19.6           11.0
7. Jaoi I Kashir        36          13.7           30.8             30.0         -0.44         187.1         7.6           11.3
8. laruataka Board      22           1.1           13.8             54.9         -0.05         113.1         4.3           13.6
9. Ierala               22           5.6           11.0             39.8          1.16          81.1         4.4           14.5
10. Iadhya Pradesh       19           6.4           22.7             67.0          1.10          77.1         5.8           9.1
11.  AUBASHthI           15           4.6           17.5             68.4          1.05          85.6         3.9           12.6
12. leghalapa            10          11.2           71.1             47.2          0.67         110.5        13.0           19.4
13. Orissa               23          10.2           46.9             52.2         0.54           75.1         3.5          15.8
14. Pujab                19           6.7           1'.6             42.2          0.26         116.1         4.5           10.6
15. Bajashtan            24          11.1           28.6             63.8         0.60           94.5         8.1           13.6
16. Tamil ladu           19           8.6           15.2             55.7         -0.45         114.6         3.8           13.6
17. Ottar Pradesh        20           9.5           41.3             66.8          0.14          84.1         4.8           12.1
18. Vest Bengal          22          10.9           46.4             19.5          0.25          89.9        5.2            15.4
All Boards, average      20            7.3.         20.4             61.2          0.39          93.0         5.0           13.1
--                    --              -       -        -      --              ---                     --              --
Source: ' Annual report or the Vorking of State Electricity Boards
and electricity Departmentst
COl, JUIn, 198?



-64-                           Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Action Plan for Managerial Development
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1      MSEB has experienced in the past five years an unprecedented
growth, both in term of power generation, with an annual generation
increasing from 15,000 GWh in 1983 to 23,000 GWh in 1988, and in term of
number of consumers, from 4.1 million in 1983, to 6.4 million in 1988,
accompanied by a considerable expansion and increase in Transmission and
Distribution system complexity. Simultaneously, responsibilities are
increasingly decentralized at the operational unit level, with a
corresponding need for more coordination between operational and functional
units.
1.2      In consideration of the anticipated continuation of MSEB's growth
(MSEB will generate 39,000 GWh in 1995, and serve 10 million consumers),
MSEB has decided to modernize its organization, and to pursue the
decentralization of responsibilities by strengthening its Management
Information Systems (MIS).
1.3      The modernization of MSEB's organization will take place
gradually, building up on the existing organization, which was amended in
FY 1987/88. The objectives of the reorganization are:
(i)   to reflect in the organization the increasing
importance of the Distribution function;
(ii)  to strengthen coordination between technical and
managerial functions for corporate planning
purpose; and
(iii) to improve and streamline internal communication
and procedures for operations and management.
1.4      In parallel, MSEB's MIS will be strengthened to support
the reorganization, by:
(i)   improving the quality of technical and managerial
information;
(ii)  accelerating processing and dissemination of
relevant information;
(iii) improving communication amongst key technical and
managerial functions; and
(iv)  to improve industrial risk management.



-65-                            Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 4
2. ORGANIZATION
2.1 Target:   -  Strengthen Distribution.
Actionss  -  The purpose of the re-organization of the Technical
function is to strengthen Distribution planning. In order
to achieve this objective, MSEB will prepare by June 30,
1990, a plan with an implementing timetable, and implement
it thereafter (Attachment 1).
2.2 Target:   -  Improve internal coordination.
Actions:  - MSEB will establish by June 30, 1990 a Corporate Planning
Unit directly under the authority of the Chairman. This
unit will be in charge of: (i) translating the corporate
strategy into corporate plan objectives; (ii) coordination
of planning amongst the main functions, and preparation
and updating of MSEB's Corporate Plan (Five-, Ten-, and
Twenty-year revolving plans); and (iill) coordination with
CEA, GOM, and WREB for the insertion of MSEB's plans in
the more general State, Regional and National Plans
(Attachment 2).
- MSEB will establish by the same date Planning Units in the
Technical (Generation & Transmission, and Distribution &
Commercial), and Administrative sectors, directly under
the relevant Members. These units will be responsible for
the preparation and updating of their respective
components of the Corporate Plan. They will work in close
relation with the Central Planning Unit.
-  The existing Planning Unit in the Accounting sector will
be strengthenedt qualified professional staff will be
assigned to the unit, and data processing equipment will
be procured by June 30, 1990.
- MSEB will establish by June 30, 1990 a centralized Data
Processing Department in charge of coordination of data
processing development in MSEB, development of in-house
softwares, operation of the mainframe computer; and
management of MSEB's data processing network
(Attachment 3).
2.3 Target:   -  Streamline Internal Procedures.
Actions:  - MSEB will establish by March 31, 1990, an Operation and
Maintenance (OEM) Unit under Member Technical. This unit
will be in charge of establishing an Operations Management
System (OMS) and technical performance indicators;
defining standard reporting requirements and formats on
operation and maintenance activities activities. The O&M
unit will monitor the timeliness and quality of reports;
and organizing the circulation of information. The head
and key officers of the new unit will be sent on an



-66-                            Annex 2.3
Page 3 of 4
information mission to selected public utilities abroad to
study modern OMS systems, and design a system to meet
MSEB's needs (Attachment 4).
- MSEB will prepare and enforce, by December 31, 1990,
maintenance manuals and establish maintenance routines for
buildings, auxiliary services (water treatment plants,
repair shops, storage areas, etc.) for which no
manufacturers' manuals exist. Manuals and preventive
maintenance routines will cover power plants, substations,
stores, shops and field offices.
-  By the same date, MSEB will expand the existing Internal
Control Unit, presently under the Member Accounts and in
charge of financial control, into an Internal Audit Unit,
in charge of auditing all internal procedures, aud
compliance of all departments with procedures for
financial transactions, operations, personnel management,
etc. Terms of Reference for the new unit, and its
location in MSEB's organization will be decided upon by
June 30, 1990 (Attachment 5).
2.4 Target:   -  Improve Risk Management.
Actions:  - MSEB will make suitable administrative and organizational
arrangements by December 31, 1990 to assign responsibility
for industrial risk evaluation, monitoring and insurance
coverage, as well as for establishment and implementation
of safety procedures within and without MSEB, to be
effective by December 31, 1990 (Attachment 8).
2.5 Target:   - Monitoring MSEB's compliance with environment standards.
Actions:  - MSEB will establish by June 30, 1990, an Environmental and
Forest Affairs Unit to coordinate and monitor
environmental, forestry and resettlement work in MSEB,
under the Board Member (Technical) (Attachment 9).
- MSEB will prepare by the same date a long-term training
program for the staff of the newly created unit.
3. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS (MIS)
3.1 Target:   -  Improve the quality of technical and managerial
information.
Actions:  - MSEB will implement an OMS and establish a set of
performance indicators (2.3 above). The selection of
suitable performance indicators will be based on
experience in selected public utilities. The definition
of OMS and performance indicators will be completed by
June 30, 1990, and their implementation will be completed
by June 30, 1991.



-67-                           Annex 2.3
Page 4 of 4
- MSEB vill modernize its management accounting system for
Generation, transmission, and Distribution, to provide
more detailed information, and develop cost analysis for
management purpose, based on the Direct Costing method
(Attachment 3). The design of the new system should be
completed by June 30. 1990 and it: implementation by
June 30, 1991 (Attachment 7).
3.2 Target:   - Accelerate data processing expansion.
Actions:  - MSEB will expand its training program for data processing,
and provide training for at least 100 persons every year
from FY 1990191 onward.
- MSEB will prepare by December 1990 a data processing plan
covering the gradual development of the Data Processing
Department, the Board's policy regarding the relative role
of centralized data processing, regional computer centers,
and micro-computers, the development plan for the Board's
mainframe computer and associated centralized
applications, the plan and schedule for the extension of
the computerized billing system already in place in four
zones, to the remaining three, and the plan for the
dissemination of micro-computers for management. The plan
will include annual budget estimates for hardware and
softwares acquisition, and evaluations of the volume of
inputsioutputs to be processed in the future.
- In relation with the data processing plan, MSEB will
prepare a detailed assessment of the employment and social
impact of the envisaged computerization, to be presented
with the data processing plan, by December 31, 1990.
3.3 Target:   -  Improve coordination and communication.
Actions:  - The new Planning Unit (2.2 above) will prepare a five-year
revolving corporate plan by December 1990.
- The generation, transmission and distribution departments
will prepare by the same date a five-year plan for
operations, transmission and distribution.
- The personnel department vill prepare by the same date a
plan for human resources development (Attachment 7).
including monitorable personnel productivity indicators
and targets, a manpower plan, a training program, a staff
redeployment plan, and an action plan for staff
motivation.
- The planning units in the technical departments will
prepare by the same date a consistent generation,
transmission and distribution investment and investment
funding plan.
- The Accounting Department will prepare by the same date a
financial plan consistent vith the operation, investment
and personnel plans.



-68-
Annex 2.3
Attachment 1
INDIA
Sjk4NASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Suggested Terms of Reference for Strengthening MSEB Capabilities
for Planning and Design of Transmission and Distribution Systems
Obiective
1.    The objective of the proposed assistance is to strengthen MSEB
capabilities to plan and design least cost electricity distribution systems
by: i) setting up a computerized system in MSEB for planning and design of
distribution systems including the corresponding data management system; ii)
training of MSEB staff in planning and design of distribution systems, in
operation and use of the computerized system and in collection and maintenance
of the data base nee-ded for this purpose; iii) reviewing and revising if
necessary design standards and practices for distribution systems presently
used in MSEB to insure that resulting plans are least cost; and, iv) assist
MSEB in revising design procedures and manuals for distribution systems.
Scone of Consultancv Work
2.    The consultant, after assessing MSEB needs and data availability would
develop or adapt a computerized system for establishing the distribution
system data base, analyzing existing loss levels and analyzing alternative
expansion strategies for distribution systems. The consultant should determine
the quality of data being used and recommend any improvements needed to
correct existing deficiencies.
3.    The consultant should provide the software and assist MSEB in the
acquisition of computers and peripherals needed to establish the distribution
data base and the proposed planning system. The hardware requirements include
micro-computers complete with adequate storage and display facilities,
printers, a digitizer for data entry of maps and drawings and a plotter for
producing circuit maps and circuit diagrams. The software should drive the
above equipment and should include as a minimum the following: (a) a load
forecasting program cable of using basic data such as land use
classifications, population growth, etc. to develop forecasts; (b) a
distribution study program to provide load flows, voltage profiles, sectional
losses and total losses; (c) a transformer load management program; (d) a
circuit analysis program. All of the programs should interface with a common
data base and ideally should be capable of utilizing data directly from a
future billing system. The consultant is responsible for the complete
installation and interfacing of the computer software and hardware. The
consultant should indicate the guarantee maintenance period for the system and
any other follow-up services.
4.    The consultant should train key staff selected by MSEB in the use of the
software and hardware and in modern approaches and technology for p. nning and
design of distribution systems, including setting up and maintenance of data



Annex 2.3
-69-                           Attachment 1
base. Training would be imparted through formal classroom conferences, on the
job by developing actual plans for at least two of the cities contemplated in
the proposed Bank financed project, and through structured study tours to
utilities abroad. The consultants should as part of their proposals furnish a
specific training section explaining their planned approach to it.
5.    The consultant should undertake a critical review of MSEB current
standards, practices and technical specifications for key materials and
equipment for distribution systems and recommend in a report changes to be
introduced to make designs more reliable, economic and a tune with current
international practice. The consultant would also propose the outline, if
necessary, of distributing a planning and design manual to be developed and
implemented by MSEB. The consultant would review and comment on the manual
once finalized.
6.    The consultants should furnish MSEB with full documentation on the
computer planning system for its operation and maintenance.



-70-                           Annex 2.3
Attachment 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Action Plan for Managerial Development
Proposed Responsibilities for a Corporate Planning Unit in MSEB
Obiective
1.       The Corporate Planning Unit (CPU) will ensure that the plans
developed by each function adequately reflect MSEB's overall strategy and
are consistent with each other. MSEB will have plans for the medium and
long-term (5, 10 and 15 years), which will be adjusted and rolled over
every year.
Placement
2.       The CPU will be established directly under the authority of the
Chairman of MSEB. In addition, MSEB's main directorate will establish
their own planning units working closely with Lhe central unit.
Tasks
The CPU will: (i) develop and communicate corporate objectives for
the main subsectors in MSEB; (ii) monitor and coordinate preparation of
decentralized plans by each of the main functions in MSEB (generation,
transmission, distribution, marketing, finance, personnel, data
processing); (iii) integrate decentralized plans into a comprehensive and
consistent overall plan for MSEB; and (iv) monitor implementation of plans
and timely achievement of specified targets by each of the main functions.
Essential stages in this process are:
(a) Environment Analysis and Forecast
- Examine economic, regulatory and political influence.
- Examine technology.
- Examine market outlook.
- Identify and evaluate key external factors.
- Prepare environmental forecast.
(b) Competitive Analysis and Position Assessment
- Analyze current position in the industry.
- Develop industry strategic success factors.
- Identify and evaluate MSEB's strengths and weaknesses.
- Summarize position in the industry.
(c) Obiectives and Goals Development
Define business mission.
- Develop objectives, goals and strategic success factors.
- Communicate objectives, goals and strategic success
factors.



-71-                          Annex 2.3
Attachment 2
(d) Formulation of Alternative Strategies Abouts
- Service and consumer markets.
- Operation efficiency.
- Organizational structure.
- Technology to be used.
4.       The CPU will develop MSEB's corporate plan, based on the strategy
chosen, and ensure that goals and objectives are clearly communicated to
the implementing units, management, personnel are adequately trained, and
adequate incentive systems are developed to support the new business plan.
Human and Technical Resources
5.       The CPU will consist of a small number (five to seven) of high
level officers with experience of each functional unit, and headed by a
senior officer with extensive experience within MSEB, preferably with
technical or economic background. A continuity of employment in these
functions will be needed, since a CPU memory will be important. Use and
experience of computers is essential.
Timeframe
6.       The CPU will be established no later than December 31, 1989.  An
early establishment will facilitate the integration of the Eighth Plan in
MSEB's plan.



Annex 2.3
-72-                        Attachment 3
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Action Plan for Managerial Development
Data Processing Plan
Obiective
The objective of the data processing plan will be to design future
development in the data processing system of NSEB, based on estimated needs
and assessment of costslbenefits to be expected from alternative
strategies.
Scope of Work
The consultant should:
(I) Existing Situation
(a)  assess existing data processing equipments in HSEB, their rate of
utilization, and cast a judgment on their adequacy for the jobs
and efficiency in utilization;
(b) assess the existing organization for data processing in MSEB
including organization and efficiency of department(s) in charge
of computer operation, software maintenance, and software
development;
(c) audit the existing computerized applications with regard to their
adequacy for their intended purpose, end-user satisfaction with
output, quality and efficiency of application analyses and
progrnimning, and quality of supporting documentation; and
(d) assess the volume of processing required for each application in
terms of inputs and outputs, and computer memory and configuration
requirements.
(II) Estimation of Future Needs
(a) Prepare, in collaboration with future end-users, a list and brief
definition of possible future computer applications for
management;
(b) assess for each application the envisaged volume of processing and
computer configuration requirements at S and 10 years horizons;
(c) prepare for each application a brief cost/benefit analysis; and
(d) propose priority ranking for the envisaged applications.



Annex 2.3
-73-                          Attachment 3
(III) Development Plan
(a) Propose alternative computerization strategies and computer system
architectures based on (III) above;
(b) prepare suitable phasing for each of the envisaged alternative;
(c)  prepare cost estimates for each strategy, including hardware,
software conversion, development and creation, logistic needs,
personnel direct cost and training cost, and possible staff
redeployment costs;
(d)  make recommendations for an optimum strategy, based on cost-
benefit and risk analyses, taking into account existing
constraints in the local context.
(IV)  Implementation Program
(a)  Once HSEB's management has selected a specific data processing
development strategy, prepare a feasible five-year development
plan and implementation program, including financial requirements
and human resources requirements; and
(b) prepare a detailed training program for MSEB staff.
Reporting
The consultants will prepare a diagnostic report at the end of
phase I. A report on the scope for compaterization in HSEB will be
prepared at the end of phase II. The report on phase III, including the
presentation of alternative strategies and the recommended strategy, should
present at least four feasible alternatives. The report on phase IV will
be a detailed implementation plan, with specifications for the proposed
equipment for the first five years of the program, and proposed actions for
the organization of computer department(s) in HSEB.
Timing
The diagnosis should be presented four weeks after inctption of
the study.
The second phase should start after HSEB has commented on the
diagnosis, some six months after issuance of phase I diagnosis. The second
phase should last for 12 weeks. The review of phase II report by HSEB
would take about six weeks.
The third phase would take about four weeks. The review of the
phase III report and the selection of a strategy for HSEB would take
16 weeks.
Phase IV would take 12 weeks.



Annex 2.3
-74-                       Attachment 3
Study Team
MSEB will establish a working group for the preparation of the
data processing plan, associating representative of the main departments
(about six persons) under the chairmanship of the officer-in-charge of
corporate planning in MSEB. The working group will steer the study and
interface as necessary with the consultant.
MSEB will also delegate at least two junior high level staff to
work closely on a daily basis with the consultant.
The consultant team should include at least one senior staff
experienced in the power sector, within a team of three to five computer
and management specialists, one of which should be experienced with data
processing training, and one with computer systems in large public
utilities in developed countries.



-75-                         Annex 2.3
Attachment 4
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Action Plan for Managerial Development
Proposed Responsibilities for an
Operation Maintenance System (OMS) Unit in MSEB
Objectives
The objectives of the OMS unit are to:
(a) improve technical effectiveness and cost efficiency of generation,
transmission and distribution;
(b) improve maintenance standards; and
*c) strengthen managerial accountability.
Placement
The unit will report to the Board Member (Technical). Corresponding
units will be established under the Directors Generation, Distribution,
Marketing (if needed], and for new projects.
Responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the unit will be to:
I. With regard to Performance Monitoring
(a) establish and maintain a system of performance monitoring
indicators in MSEB, based on the World Bank manual "Proposals for
Monitoring the Performance of Electric Utilities", adapted as
necessary;
(b) ensure that performance indicators are analyzed, discussed, and
trigger suitable corrective actions;
(c)  establish and update technical consumption and efficiency norms in
MSEB; and
(d) identify and propose cost-saving measures and improvement to
working practices.
II. With regard to Operation Maintenance
(a) set guidelines for MSEB regarding safety at work, and procedures
for performing routine tasks;



-76-                    Annex 2.3
Attachment 4
(b) establish and monitor preventive maintenance staniards; and
(c) prepare and maintain up-to-date maintenance manuals for
generations.
Proposed Human and Technical Resources
The central OMS unit should comprise one section for operation
mainten'..tce, and one section for performance monitoring.  It should have a
complement of at least five engineers, preferably with experience in
maintenance, operations and management.
The units in the main technical directorates should comprise about
three engineers each, depending on the technical requirements.
The units should be providdw ,ith substantial data processing support,
inter-connected with the cost a_counting data base.  Data processing
requirements will be defined under the Data Processing Plan.
Timing for Implementation
(a) Establishment of central OMS units December 31, 1989.
(b)  Appointment of staffs March 31, lg'.
(c) Design of maintenance standards, preparation of maintenance
manuals, and performance indicators: June 30, 1990.
(d) Implementation: June 30, 1990 to March 31, 1991.



-77-                       Annex 2.3
Attachment 5
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Action Plan for Managerial Development
Proposed Responsibilities for an Internal Audit Unit in MSEB
Obiective
The objective of the unit is to establish and safeguard the plan
of organization and all of the coordinate methods and measures adopted
within MSEB to safeguard its assets; check the accuracy and reliability of
its accounting data; promote operational efficiency; encourage adherence to
prescribed managerial policies; and monitor compliance with existing
guidelines and internal managerial procedures.
Placement
The Internal Audit Unit should report directly to the Chairman of
MSEB, and be fully autonomous in its investigations.
Responsibilities
The unit's main responsibilities will be:
A. Accountina Controls:
(1) Planning of organization and review of the procedures and records
concerned with the safeguarding of MSEB's assets and the
reliability of financial reports.
(2) Ensuring that accounting transactions are executed in accordance
with managemente's general or specific authorization.
(3) Ensuring financial transactions are recorded as necessary to
maintain accountability of assets and permit preparation of
financial statements.
(4) Ensuring that access to MSEB's assets is permitted only in
accordance with management authorization.
(5) Ensuring that recorded assets are compared with the existing
assets and appropriate action is taken with respect to any
difference.
B. Management Controls
(1) Monitor changes in the plan of organization of MSEB and in
allocation of responsibilities amongst units.



-78-                       Annex 2.3
Attachment 5
(2) Monitor compliance with procedures and records that are concerned
with the decision process leading to management's authorization of
transaction, in particular with regard to personvel management,
procurement, purchases, commercial, and safety.
Human and Technical Resources
The unit should be headed by a person with extensive experience in
accounting at a high level, preferably a chartered accountant. Staffing
should be at least four professional staff with training and experience in
accounting or operations, and at least five years of professional
experien-ce with MSEB. No computer support is required.
Timing for Implementation
Final terms of reference for the unit will be prepared by
December 31, 1989. Job description for professional staff will be prepared
by January 30, 1990.
The unit will be fully staffed and effective by March 31, 1990.



-79-                          Annex 2.3
Attachment 6
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POlWER PROJECT
Action Plan for Managerial Development
Proposed Terms of Reference for the
Rehabilitation and Management Accounting System
Purpose
The purpose of the rehabilitation of the Management Accounting
System is to revise and expand MSEB's management accounting system so that
it covers all of MSEB's activity; provides meaningful data for management
of operational unit; provides basic data for tariff setting purpose and
calculation of long run marginal cost; and provides historical cost inputs
for annual budgeting. Timely dissemination of relevant information to
concerned managers will be emphasized in the new system design.
Preparation and Implementation
The revised management accounting system will be devised by a
specially appointed task force of no more than six members, under the
chairmanship of the Director of Finance. It will comprise representatives
of the major technical departments and of the financial complex. The task
force will also supervise the implementation of the revised system.
The task force will operate as a 'workshop' and prepare a full
design and implementation schedule for the revised system. In order to
discharge its responsibility in the most professional manner, and to help
introduce modern management accounting practices in MSEB, the task force
will, as necessary, draw on the expertise of exterral consultants for
specific tasks or advice. Moreover, the members of the task force will
study in deteal existing management accounting system in other public
utilities in India or abroad. The members of the task force will have the
possibility to visit selected public utilities, to examine in detail their
management accounting systems and draw on their experience to design MSEB's
system. The cost of these visits can be financed under the World BDank
Maharashtra Power Project. Each of these visits is expected to last about
two weeks in each utility.
Genera. Characteristics of the Envisaged System
(a) The system will collect and process cost data and also relevant
statistical data on the physical activity of each cost center in
MSEB, for the calculation of unit costs and cost performance
indicators for each center.
(b) The system will classify cost data, from the collection stage,
according to the following categories:
- by function in MSEB (generation, transmission, distribution,
marketing, overheads, capital investment, etc.);



-80-                         Annex 2.3
Attachment 6
- by nature (personnel, consumable, services, etc.);
- in relation with each cost center's main activity (direct,
indirect, overheads);
- in relation with their variability with the level of activity.
(c) Physical elements for cost calculation will be collecled in the
field from the team supervisors, to be quantified in monetary
terms by applying standard unit costs.
(d) The management accounting system will be fully reconciled with the
financial accounting system at the end of each financial year, and
operate on a standard cost basis during the year.
(e)  The system will operate on a quarterly basis; processed data will
be made available to managers within three weeks of the end of
each quarter.
(f) Specific formats for cost data presentation will be prepared for
each manager concerned. Each format will be designed in close
collaboration with future users.
(g) The management accounting system will comprise, in addition to
collection and processing syste-s, a plan for dissemination of
cost data amongst managers, an4 procedures for internal analysis
and discussion of cost data.
(h) The system will be suitably designed to permit calculation of cost
performance indicators for upper management level; detailed power
supply cost by category of consumer and period of the yearlday;
and standard unit costs for annual budget preparation.
Time Schedule
- Nomination of Task Force members: December 31, 1989.
- Departure for study of management accounting system abroad:
March 31, 1990.
- Recommendations of Task Force: August 31, 1990
- Detailed design of proposed system: December 31, 1990
- Implementation: January 1, 1991 to December 31, 1991.



-81-
Annex 2.3
Attachment 7
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Human Resources Development Plan
Obiective
The objectives of the plan are: (i) to find a better adequacy
between MSEB's staff and its manpower requirements; (ii) to limit further
increases in MSEB's work force to the minimum technically necessary; and
(iii) to design a recruitment and training facility in the policy to
satisfy MSEB's qualitative and quantitative long-term work force needs.
Methodology
For the preparation of the Human Resources Development Plan, MSEB
will:
(i) prepare detailed job descriptions for each of the positions in
the existing organization, with a particular emphasis on
previous experience and technical skill requirements, and
prepare standard career development paths;
(ii) prepare an inventory of MSEB's human resources, aiming at
evaluating the match between job description and existing human
resources;
(iii) prepare personnel policy objectives and a detailed estimate for
the next five and ten years of future personnel requirements
for each of the functions in MSEB, existing or to be created;
the estimate will comprise quantitative estimate of staffing
requirements and also skills requirements for the most
significant positions:
(iv) translate future personnel requirements in terms of labor
productivity based on activity indicators developed
independently for each of the main functions in MSEB;
(v) revise MSEB's training programs and courses based on skills
requirements of the job description as a result of (i) and
(iii) above, and of career development paths;
(vi)  prepare a training plan to adjust MSEB's personnel to their
present and future jobs;
(vii) prepare a long term quantitative staffing plan by function; and
(viii)  prepare a recruitment and transfer plan to satisfy future
needs.



-82-
Annex 2.3
Attachment 7
Responsibilities for the Preparation of the Plan
The Human Resources Development Plan will be prepared as part of
the Corporate Plan. It will be prepared by the Personnol Department. in
collaboration with the technical and management departments.
Timing
The complete planning process should be repeated every five years,
to be updated annually on revolving basis. The ten-year plan vill be
updated every five years.
The preparation of the first plan will commence in September 1989;
the p-eparation phase will be completed within twelve months for the first
plan. Annual update should take no more than three months, from September
to December, for incorporation in the annual update HSEB's overall
corporate plan.



-83-
Annex 2.3
Attachment 8
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWEP. PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for a Risk Management for HSEB
Introduction
1.         4MSEB is responsible for the public supply of electricity in
Maharashtra.  These Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of
tasks required to prepare a risk management and insurance program for
MSEB including recommendations to strengthen MSEB safety practices.
Obiectives
2.          The consultants should perform a risk analysis for MSEB and
propose a plan to minimize and manage M'EB's exposure. The consultants should
particularly:
a. identify risks and quantify them;
b. develop alternatives for risk management and recommend the best
options for MSEB including insurance practices as appropriate;
c. recommend internal administrative organization for managing
HSEB's risks;
d. determine the accounting treatment of premia and of losses and
risk not covered by external insurance;
e. determine the cover and type of policies to be maintained; and
f. determine the method of contracting insurance in the most
economical manner.
3.          In addition, the consultant would review established plant
inspection and safety procedures followed by MSEB, comparing them with broader
practices similar to the ones in well established utilities and to the
periodic inspection services generally provided by insurance companies as part
of their coverage. The consultant would then make suitable recommendations
for the establishment of inspection and safety procedures designed to
complement existing practices through the adoption of a full scope of
inspections and follow-up as would be required for insurance purposes.



-84-
Annex 2.3
Attachment 8
Scope of the Work
4.          The consultants should proceed in three phases.  It is important
that MSEB staff actively participate in each phase of works. The first 8t age
of the work requires a detailed ar.alysis of the principal risks to which kSEB
is exposed and a quantification of them. In the case of fixed assets, such
valuation should be made on replacement value, less corresponding
depreciation, except when the cost of replacement may be difficult to
determine, in which case they should take original cost less depreciation and
apply indices of inflation which are most appropriate to the class of such
assets. At the same time, they should make, for each risk, an economic
analysis to determine the most cost effective management technique for that
particular risk. Once the first phase has been completed a report will be
prepared giving the consultants' conclusions and recommendations.
5.          During the first phase the consultants should also:
a. review and evaluate the existing MSEB's inspection schedules
and procedures for generating stations and bulk substations
particularly in relation to planned maintenance and periodic
testing;
b. review and evaluation of existing MSEB's safety practices to
reduce hazardous conditions that may exist in operating and
maintaining the MSEB;s power system;
c. assist MSEB in establishing procedures for periodic inspections
of plant and equipment to enhance the flow of information on
status and capabilities of plant to the management;
d. assist MSEB in organizing safety seminars and developing
accident investigations and reporting leading to effective
accident prevention; and
e. assist MSEB in preparation of manuals and instructions for
safety oriented operation and maintenance procedures if
necessary.
6.          In the second stage the consultants should:
a. develop criteria for evaluating decisions concerning external
or self-insurance;
b. develop criteria for evaluation of risks to be covered and for
determining the nature and scope of such cover;
c. recommend the location of the insurance office in the
organization of MSEB, its duties and responsibilities and its
personnel requirements;



-85-
Annex 2.3
Attachment 8
d. determine the qualifications required for the personnel
responsible for decisions concerning insurance, and any needs
for training in insurance matters; and
e. develop internal administrative guidelines for contracting
insurance.
7.          The third stage of the study will be to estimate the cost of
insurance, whether it can be placed locally or overseas. If possible, it
would be helpful to obtain information on premia paid by other electric power
companies in other countries including developing ones. In the light of such
information, the consultants should make their recommendations on the amount,
type of cover and other characteristics of the insurance required by MSEB.
Such recommendations will be contained in the final report which will
comprise, inter alia, the following subjects:
a. procedures to be followed for contracting in the insurance; and
b. treatment to be followed in cases where it is decided to opt
for self-insurance, in particular:
i.   criteria for the assessment of amounts to be set aside
annually for the self-insurance;
ii. guidelines for the accounting of loss and damages; and
iii. rules for investment of the reserves.
8.          The consultant shall prepare an instruction manual to implement
all those recommendations resulting from his review.
9.          The consultant should advise MSEB as necessary to procure the
agreed insurance.
10.         The consultant shall prepare a final summary report listing all
aspects of the work and results achieved.



-86-
Annex 2.3
Attachment 9
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
PrORosed Responsibilities for an Environmental
and Forest Affairs Unit in MSEB
1.       Develop and implement a corporate policy on the environment and
rese.tlement.
2.       Advise individual plants regarding compliance with relevant
Government of India, State, and local regulations, guidelines, codes of
practice, etc.
3.       Advise on required pollution control and other environmental and
resettlement matters, including implementation schedules and cost estimate.
4.       Undertake necessary environmental impact monitoring studies.
5.       Complete periodic environmental audits for each facility.
6.       Prepare necessary special/new project requirements, for instance,
environmental impact assessaents for new plants.
7.       Prepare in coordination with other units of MSEB resettlement
plans for population displaced by new projects and monitor its compliance.
8.       Propose necessary training programs for utility personnel on
environmental matters.
8.       Liaise as necessary with Government of India, State, and local
officials.
9.       Represent the utility at relevant meetings of industrial
associations, government officials, the public and/or the media.
10.      Prepare written occupational health and safety procedures,
o:-ganize required training and implementation of these procedures.
11.      Organize and implement a program to highlight notable achievements
in the media.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
M. S. E B's Head Offce Staff Set-up as on March 31,1988
CHAIRMAN
I
TECHNICAL                                         ACCOUNTS       MEMBER ADMINISTRATION
MEMBER                                            MEMBER           AND SECRETARY
TSCHNICAL     TECHNICAL             TECHNICAL      CiiIEF                       DIRECTOR OF      DIRECTOR OF
DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR             DIRECTOR      ENGR                          PERSONNEL        VIGILANCE &
(STORES)    (EHW PROJECTS)         (GEN.O & M)    (TFR PL)                         I              SECURITY
TECREHNTOR          TDEsCHM,TOAR                                          JT. SECT.
DIRECTOR            DIRECTOR                                              (GENERAL)                            O
(DISTRIBUTION)    (GEN. PROJECTS)
CHIEF             CHIEF                               DIRECTOR OF  -  ADDL DIR. (ESTT.)
EOMR.             ENG.                                ACCOUNTS    -  JT. SECT. (TECHNICAL)
CHIEF           _GCHIEF ENR.P                         DIRECTOR OF  -JT. SECT. (BOARD)
CHIEF  CHIEF ENGM                      ~~~~~~~FINANCE
(DIS.)(E  OR.  O.                                    DIRECTOR OF     CHIEF INDUSTRIAL
(DlST.)           CHIEF                               MANAGEMENT      RELATIONS OFFICER
ENGF.                              ACCOUNTS
(CML GEN. 1.)                                      LAW OFFICER
DIRECTOR OF     CHIEF PUELCITY
CHIEF                              INTERNAL        CHE PUBUCIT
ENGR.                              AUDIT           & P.R.Q
(CML GEN. 11.)                                     MEOICAL ADVISER
EKW42US



-88-                                  Annex 2.5
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
KAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Summary of MSEB's Tariff a/
Comparison with Long Run harainal Cost
Consumption    Average        Proportion
Consumer            Current Monthly Tariff                         Share       Tariff b/    P RiC
Category                    (per kWh)                                           (Ds/kWhT        I%1 e/
1. Domestic
Ii     First 30 kWh             : Rs 0.30
ii)   Next 120 kWh             : Rs 0.55                   9             47             24
i)  Balance                    : Rs 0.85
2. Commercial
i    First 30 kWh             : Rs 0.60
ii)   Next 120 kWh               Rs 0.95                   2             89             60
iii)  Balance                  : Rs 1.05
3. Aoriculture (HV
A i)   Rs u.u 5. Minimu  charge Rs 8/BHP/month
(il)   Alternatively, Rs 4007BHP/year.                                     8              8
4. Aariculture (LV)
PUWD                 Minion Charge
Size      Tariff       Per annum                   18
Jil    <IP         As-0.16     Rs 3O/HP
{ii)   >lOHP      Rs 0.16     Rs 40/HP                                    8              7
(ii) Alternatively, Rs 100/BHP/year.
5. Public Li htina
1l    Less than 50 lights    : Rs 0.30
ii)   50 to 200 lights           Rs 0.55                   1             57             40
Iiii)  hore than 200 lights       Rs 0.70
6. Public Water
Ti)    Urban areas : same as industry  (LVI       )
(ii)   Rural areas : same as Agricuiture (LV)               3             80             59
7. Traction
Ti)    Same as Industry (LV)                      )          1            85             66
8.  Industrv (LV + NV)
i)i    Less than 1 BHP         : Rs 0.47
ii)   I BHP to 20 BHP          : Rs 0.60
iii)  20 BHP to 67 BHP         : Rs 0.80                   5             75             65
iv)   Above 67 BHP             : Rs 0.95
v)    Minimum annual charge Rs 150/BHP
9.  Industrv (HV)
(1) j     a  r.Aetro area:
Rs 40/KVA/month + Rs 0.90/kwh
+ fuel cost adjustment charge.
Annual minimum Rs 600/kVA.
31           110            115
(ii) Other areas:
Rs 37A/month + Rs 0.80/kWh
+ fuel cost adjustment charge.
Annual minimum Rs 375/kVA.
10. 8ulkSuDlies                                           I
(iJ Bilateral agreeents between MSEB
and TEC, BSES and military                           20             97            107
11. Inter-State
(t) Bilateral agreements betws'en MSEB
and SEb concerned                                    10             73             62
Total                             100
Weighted average                                  75             74
a/ In force as of February 2f., 1989.
1/ For 1987/88, the last year for which data are available.
c1 Bank estimates.



-89-
Annex 2.5
Page 2 of 3
Sumary of MSEB Tariff
Historical Perspective
Paise Per kWh
-----------------------------------  --------- --    Chanae in Real Prices
19 M 185         1985/86        1986/87         1987/88to 1987/88
Actual  Real   Actual  Real   Actual  Real   Actual  Real             %       % p.a.
17a--                           - -__
1.  Domestic                40     40       44     41       46     40       47      37      - 7.5       -2.6
2.  Commercial              66     66       75      71      91      79      89      71      + 7.6       + 2.5
3.  Agriculture HV          10     10        9       8       8       7       8       6      -40.0       -15.6
4.  Agriculture LV          10     10        9      8        8       7       8       6       -40.0      -15.6
5.  Public Lighting         32     32       41     39       55      48      57      45      +40.6       +12.0
6.  Public Water            54     54       74     70       76      66      80      64      +18.5       + 5.8
7.  Traction                49     49       60     57       78     68       85      67      +36.7       +11.0
8.  Industry LV+MV          48     48       58     55       67      58      75      60      +25.0       + 7.7
9.  Industry HV             67     67       86     81      101      88     110      88      +31.3       + 9.5
10. Bulk Supplies           57     57       85     80       87     75       97      77      +35.0       +10.5
11. Inter-State             43     43       61     57       77     67       73      58      +34.9       +10.5
Averaae                48      48       65     61       71     62       75     60       +25.0       + 7.7
a/  Deflated using an index of consumer prices, published in International Financial Statistics,
IMF, March, 1989.
Source: MSEB Annual Accounts



Surary of MSEB Tariff
Demand. Tariff. Numbr of Consumrs
I22         29N3         2984       1215          toll         I           1#1           tol           lltl        tm           Im           llU          114         I99          29           Im           Ikt         299          NH
C..    ................        23   A3etual    fileta3t3 (Actualm )ilt A    I                                                                                                                                  I
2,99        2,98                                                                2 n2,                   273          2'
Zre itt..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIIA   I   1I   tm11 
6.                  ~~~~~~1,746   2,2621      2,410        3.2124       3.48?       .1.83         4318          4981          5218        $5568        199          61i6        7222         Tull         958          82j        39181        '2096        1228
14.21       125.3U       is.865      27,7         2,625        22.17       23,           u5,UI         If          28,1           ,  4       U    2       37             2         41,          v U,         nso               I      a.
l2ol2       1113         2881        2"5          288             t I I?   2             2841          29          2912         2m82         29s3         2814        2195         29           itVd         tm          2            2MN
!-. .   Ii -     0 9                 2 ct .113 lb t kD /I et ulln   (Aetuall  (Actull  N Oct . 1   ( Ot     1   f-------                                                   5  ---- ------------------- ------
kteSt                                                                      It                        I                                                                             isJi .f
$ i!3lriul   14  2t           13           1                       |           |             |             t            t            |          It           1,~~~~~sh  12            12                      it                        it1212 
,2 .3        16          It          65           71         I.1                                                                                                                  11           It           ISI          IS
i~~~~~rIt ~             I           2             3            o             
4:n  er eonSC    wS          !9!.2 !jf       ?         !!8.! .t 24                                   12 to  IIH                                                                                                  I        2     9 Ill7      IH           112       1nn
j   It e          2.e; ,323       42 ! 2.  2 j 4 1            4                                                                                                                                                 2        4       2        8        2 2
26          27          623          tO                        1                                                                                                                                                        HA:22I  2  2    2 1i
U     U 1                      U            U  P$                                                                       1`            IU          I'l~                     I            Ini         till        1ff31              i
g  Fr   t   I "  | al  3 514;  3  1}  4 4|||  ' 215  ' !31  4 ID          3 '2                                                                                       132                      14                        II4  4  |'  5  Ii 5 2J  S  ' } 52  i'
h~~ ~~                     40   ~ ~ ,    p                                                                                                                                                                    248 ~~0 
324         43           46          48           65          12        7.2 1          5.026 s2                                                          It,5 13 ,    24           32 1             125743               25,         25n
2982        2983         2884        21195       2I86          Ig81        lol8          I88           to"          2192        t992         2993         2194        2195         2816         2081         2919         two1 2818
I    tl              247 ,32   202,58  2,3.8O3U                             3. 34      Is389 12  4.23  .4    ,68                          5,4 0,      5.  ,1       5,     8     6,     4    6,7741,88    72.                       82,
(A,!    tcua          6t12 2Otu               tOtii               :131          28  411    14I        999            *      0113.41  1,92014    'I                                                          1.16           i s
4' Ic  aer8ork.          ,41        1.040        81,42       22,92       2,52         29,11                        :22         ii          4:          i5:  2          8         i3           8,k.i I                               o I                      &2 99A4
4~l thI 1   2f.?1 24 453              16   3.14213    3   I34             23,t          j7 fi                                 '1~           iij           :4         I'jtI:,                               I  ji~5,
tI3c.:11                          123,i:P5834,48 54                                                                                                           2. :
068  985  145         945          845          24~~ ~          ~~~5 1 81.45          91           *5           u             a           a             .
alLi   ~  ~      608,287    769.422    838,634    981,2281    185,2212  2,0881,252  12,25.781   2,273,3231   1,244,628   1.421.86 .               488,442        3 1i    61.2,811  2,'65.241  1.ii.i    28981                .iiH         ,tiR        z,S1
I2a'9 22.8          234,04       244,0 28       9 25852   172,856      183.92       9810         222,8263:11   228,722      248,843     268,62       28.842       321,144    231,5          4,2          9.9         4.4           5,4          1.
293  2,24                        2 141426             4,415       4,51         4,140         4.5          5,1           ,     2 61 5.8                          IN.194  1,92j 67                    61  P,        '1    1     ,216        7,48 491
~~~~~~~.e 4,1I~                 48                     4,14          215          214            2             2                          1                               1    "III                                                j            I           4
i tr    tre tComniers                                                                                                                                                      4            4 4                      a4 
I!i'IIiIiI       ~3,827,959  4,264,228  4.503.313  4.848,85154                     I  18 4.65 I 612   61                                                                                                          U13,1



-91-
Annex 2.6
Ih-DIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
MSEB's Workforce
(as of March 31, 1988)
Level                               Number
Engineers (Level I)                  2,937
Tecb'nicians (Level II)              7,006
Skilled Labor (Level III)           42,982
Unskilled Labor (Level IV)          43,969
Total              96,894
Labor Productivity, 1983-88
1983      1984      1985       1986      1987       1988
Workforce         89,044    91,779    94.905    95,865    95,51i    96,894
Consumers
(thousands)       4,164      4,503     4,948      5,468     5,980      6,471
Consumers /
Employees           46.7      49.0      52.1       57.0      62.6       66.8
Source: MSEB Administration Reports, relevant years.



-92-
Annex 2.7
INDIA
MSHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
NSEB's Training Program, 1986/87 and 1987/88
Number of Trainees
T & D                               1986/87                1987/88
Accounting                        191                    354
Clerks                            196                    250
Linemen                           220                    335
Sub-station Operators              71                     50
Junior Engineers                  189                    272
Head Clerks                        48                     10
Meter Testers                     103
1,028                  1,271
Generation
Chemists                            2                      2
Chargemen                          39
Sub-Engineers                      23
Artisan Trainees                   33
97                      2
Grand Total                 1,125                  1,273
Sources MSEB Administration Reports, relevant years.



-93-
Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 11
INDI
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A. Koyna IV Hydroelectric Power Station
Location
1.          The Koyna IV Hydroelectric powerplant would be located in
Maharashtra State, forming a parallel development to the existing first and
second stages which draw water from LaRe Shivajisagar, the reservoir of Koyna
Dam, and divert it wep"cward to power stations located at the western foot of
the Western Ghats. Koyna Dam is located 56 km west of Karad wl.ich is on the
Pune Bangalore road, and the power station site is located 25 km from Chiplun
which is on the coastal road from Bombay to Goa.  The dam is situated about
350 km from Bombay (Map IBRD 21492).
Development Concept
2.          The existing first and second stages of the Koyna development,
consist of an intake on Lake Shivajisagar, supplying water via twin headrace
tunnels and inclined shafts to an underground powerhouse, in which are
installed eight Pelton type generating units with a total installed capacity
of 56i SW.  From the powerhouse a tailrace tunnel leads to Lake Kolkewadi
which is the forebay of Koyna Stage III which provides a further 320 MW of
generating capacity. The Stage I and II units were commissioned over the
period 1962 to 1967, while Stage III units were conmissioned in 1975-76.
3.          The first and second stages were designed to operate on base load
with a plant load factor of 60 percent. While plarned reduced diverA.ions over
the period up until 1994 (para 6) would reduce the average plant load factor
to about 44 percent there is still scope for a further reduction in plant load
factor by the addition of further generating units. This opportunity arises
because of the growth of the interconnected system and the reductd proportion
of hydro plant in the overall generation mix of the Western Region. This is
the basis of the Koyna IV development concept.
4.          The proposed Stage IV development parallels the existing first ard
second stages, also developing the full 521 m head between Lake Shivajisagar
and Lake Kolkewadi. However the routing of the new power conduits would be
somewhat more direct than that of the existing development, which was designed
to be implemented in stages. An additional four 250 MW units would be
installed in the new underground powerhouse, but no additional flow would be
diverted. Instead the combined development would be assigned peak load duty
with plant load factor ccrresponding to reduced diversions equal to about 17
percent.



-94-
Annex 3. 1
Page 2 of 11
PhvsiograDhy and Hydrology
5.          The Koyna River originates in the Sahyadri ranges at an altitude
of about 1230 m and flows southwards parallel to the ridge line of the Western
Chats for some 65 km. At this location it turns sharply and flows eastwards
for a further 56 km where it joins the Rive- Krishna which eventually
discharges into the Bay of Bengal. The Koyna Dam is located some two
kilometers upstream of the point where the river turns towards the east. The
catchment upstream of the dam has an area of 892 km2. Because of its location
at the top of the steep scarp and orientation parallel to it, it receives a
very high annual rainfall averaging about 6000 mm over its area. About eighty
percent of the inflow occurs during the monsoon season which extends over the
period from June to October.
6.          Diversion of Koyna water has implications with respect to
downstream users, particularly since the Krishna River passes through two
other Indian states (Karnataka and Andra Pradesh) after leaving Maharashtra.
Permissible diversions from the upper Krishna by Maharashtra have baen laid
down by the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal, which was set up by the
Government of India to adjudicate in this area. The decision of this tribunal
provides that diversions by Maharashtra from the upper Krishna shall be
gradually reduced to an annual volume of 67.5 million cubic feet (1911 hm3 )
by June 1, 1994. The calculation of economic benefits for the Koyna IV scheme
allows for this reduction.
7.          A second constraint on diversions from the Koyna is imposed by the
need to provide for downstream irrigation withdrawals within Maharashtra.
These amount to 729 hm3 annually and evaporation losses amount to 120 hm3.  If
these requitements plus full allowable diversions are to be met, inflow plus
carry over storaga from the previous year should exceed 2760 hm3.
Records of inflow into Koyna reservoir are available for the period since
impoundment in 1961 until the present. Prior to impoundment, river flow
records are available back until 1949. The overall period of records is
therefore about 40 years. Reservoir simulations over this period indicate
that full requirements would have been met in all years except 1972/73 and
1987/88, inferring a reliability of about 95 percent. Considering that this
reliability applies to both power and irrigation requirements, it can be
considered to be very high since acceptable irrigation rehabilities are
generally in the order of 80 percent.
Geology
8.          The whole of the Project would be constructed in Deccan Trap
basalts. The general characteristics of this formation are well known since
it covers 75 percent of the area of Maharashtra. The earlier stages of the
Koyna development were also located entirely in Deccan Trap basalts.
Throughout this formation, there is considerable spatial variation on a micro
scale, because it is made up of a large number of small lava flows. However,
because of the similarity of the formation process in each case the number of



-95-
Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 11
rock types is low and the characteristics of similar rock types from various
locations are relatively uniform.
9.          The primary rock types present in the Koyna area are vesicular,
amygdaloidal and compact basalts. Volcanic breccias and red boles also occur
but in relatively narrow bands. The vesicular and amygdaloidal basalts are
relatively weak but because of their massive structure provide an ideal
tunnelling medium. The compact non-vesicular basalts are always well jointed
which is reflected in increased overbreaks, but temporary support during
tunnelling is rarely required even when tunnel dimensions are large. The
volcanic breccias are relatively weak and temporary support would generally be
required. The red boles are probably the only rock type which could be
classified as poor. However because they occur only in thin bands, they
provide only a minor impediment to tunnelling.
10.         There is considerable knowledge of the rock types in which the
K-yna IV underground excavations will be situated. This has been gained from
thie construction experience from the previous stages supplemented by site
investigations and preliminary works carried out for the presently proposed
development stage. During construction of the earlier srages, temporary
support of excavations was only rarely required. No significant or unexpected
geological problems were encountered during construction. The access tunnel
and a number of other tunnels associated with the powerhouse remain unlined
and urnsupported 25 years after construction. As part of the preliminary works
for tne present stage more than a kilometer of large diameter tunnel has been
excavated with no support except an occasional rock bolt. Water inflows are
insignificant, even for excavations which are below the water level of the
existing lakes.
11.         Although the overall characteristics of the formation are well
known, extensive additional site investigations have been carried out for the
current stage including some 25 diamond drill holes. These have been
generally aimed at obtaining a detailed knowledge in the area of the more
critical structures. Overall it can be considered that geological conditions
at the site are favorable to the construction of an underground development
and that the level of knowledge of the geology is high.
PowerDlant Layout
12.         A new intake would be constructed at the edge of the reservoir.
The intake bellmouth for Koyna IV has been fixed at a higher elevation than
that of the existing bellmoutas for Koyna I and II and it is planned to
operate the reservoir during construction, such that it is drawn down to below
the new intake level at the end of the dry season, enabling the breakthrough
to be constructed in the dry.
13.         The present design includes underground trashracks and gates
located in shn.Lts remote from the intake, in order to minimize the surface
construction which must be carried out in a relatively short period. However,
GOMID are currently studying the possibility of extending the lake drawdown



-96-
Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 11
period, such that the trashracks could be located at the actual intake. This
would considerably simplify the underground excavations in this area.
14.         A 9.1 m x 9.1 m D-shaped concrete lined headrace tunnel 4.5 km
long terminates in a restricted orifice tvpe surge shaft, 21.8 m in diameter
and 110 m high. The maximum capacity of the tunnel is about 230 m./s. From
the base of the shaft four 3.9 m steel lined tunnels lead to butterfly valves
housed in a cavern located at the junction with the high pressure shafts.
15.         The four steel lined high pressure shafts are each 3.9 m in
diameter and 530 m long, inclined at an angle of 60 degrees to the horizontal.
These terminate in short horizontal lengths of penstock leading to the 2.4 m
diameter spherical valves located within the powerhouse cavern.
16.          The powerhouse cavern, which has a span of 22 m, a height of 48 m
and a length of 143 m houses four Francis type turbine generator units each
rated at 250 MW under 485 m head. The thirteen single phase 15/400 kV
transformers, each rated at 100 MVA are housed in a separate cavern which has
a span of 22 m and a length of 158 m.  The transformers are connected to a
conventional outdoor switchyard by 400 kV oil filled cables located in a
separate tunnel. A separate cavern is also provided for the collection
manifold and draft tube gate and a number of smaller tunnels are provided for
access, ventilation, etc. Access to the powerh-use is through a double lane
tunnel about 2 km long.
17.         A single 10 m x 10 m tailrace tunnel 2150 m long is provided. This
is locally enlarged at its upstream end to provide for tailrace surge. The
tailrace tunnel discharges into a 165 m length of open channel which
terminates in a gated outlet structure discharging into the forebay of the
existing Koyna Stage III development.
Koyna Dam
18.         Koyna Dam is an essential component of the Koyna IV powerplant and
consideration must therefore be given to its adequacy to function throughout
the desigr. life of the development. It is a rubble masonry gravity dam witlh a
maximum height above foundation level of 85 m.
19.         The dam suffered damage during the strong earthquake of December
11, 1967 which devastated the surrounding area and resulted in the loss of
almost 200 lives. Thp epicenter of the tremor was calculated to be very close
to the damsite and its magnitude was in the order of 6.5. Strong vibrations
were experienced throughout the structure with a peak acceleration of 0.63g
being recorded on a strong motion accelerograph located within the dam. As a
result some cracking occurred in the dam although the more significant damage
related to appurtenant structures. Seismic activity of a more minor nature
has continued since the major tremor.
20.         Remedial measures immediately following the earthquake included
epoxy grouting of visible cracks, drilling of internal drainage holes and



-97-
Aimex 3, 1
Page 5 of 11
strengther.ing of seven high monoliths with vertical prestressed cables
anchored well into the body of thte dam. Subsequently, buttresses were
consttucted downstream of the non-overflow monoliths with a construction
procedure aimed at achieving a full structural connection between the new and
old constructions. The strengthened section was designed on the basis of
pseudo-static methods, but in recent years the desigr has been checked using
the results of a dynamic analysis carried out by Roorkee University. The dam
is well instrumented and instrumentation has been continuously monitored over
the years. Results have been periodically analysed and reviewed by a panel of
experts which has met at regular intervals since the time of the major tremor.
With the measures that have been taken to restore, strengthen and re-analyze
the dam, the design complies with current requirements appropriate to a highly
seismic area. However, the Bank has recommended some limited additional
investigations aimed at proving certain design assumptions. GOMID has agreed
to carry these out as part of the rehabilitation measures described below.
21.         Leakage through the dam has been increasing since the time of
construction. The vast majority is through contraction joints between the
blocks indicating failure of the copper waterstops either at .oints between
sections or joints with the concrete. As might be expected, leakage increased
sharply following the major tremor, which could be attributed to differential
vibrations between adjacent monoliths exacerbating the progressive failure
which was already occurring. Later increases in the rate appear to be
unrelated to seismic activity.
22.         Structurally, the quantity of leakage has no significance provided
the provisions to evacuate it are adequate as they are in the case of Koyna.
Moreover, the current rate of leakage is not unusually high for a dam of this
type. However it has increased by a factor of 10 over the life of the dam and
if it continued to increase at the current rate for another ten or twenty
years it would eventually become unacceptable even if only from economic or
aesthetic standpoints. Over the years GOMID has made several attempts to seal
the joints without significant success. To a large extent, failures are
attributed to the fact that repairs have been confined to areas above Minimum
Operating Level of the reservoir, which can be accessed in the dry. GOMID has
therefore agreed to the employment of a specialists to carry out necessary
repair works including underwater work as required. The work would be
financed by the Bank as part of the project.
Koyna Reservoir
23.         Koyna reservoir has a gross storage of 2797 hm3 and a live storage
of 2685 hm3. Siltation surveys have been carried out since filling of the
reservoir, the most recent in 1985. These have indicated a relatively low
rate of storage depletion amounting to about one percent since filling. The
implication is that live storage will not be significantly reduced within the
life of the project.



-98-
Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 11
Power and Energy
24.         The Koyna IV station would add 1000 MW of peaking capacity to the
interconnected system. As noted earlier, the quantity of flow will not be
increased and th'Krefore total energy output of the Koyna complex would not
vary substantially. However a minor addition to energy output would be gained
because of the increased hydraulic efficiency of the new Francis units in
comparison with Peltons and also because they can utilize slightly more of the
available head. The increased energy amounts to 47 GWh bringing total energy
output to 2197 GWh. Both power and energy are firm, that is they can be
utilized at a constant rate throughout the year, and will be fully available
in at least 95 percent of years.
25.         Stages I, II and IV would operate together to provide a total of
1560 MW of peaking power to the grid at a plant load factor of 17 percent.
The lower Stage III development is already designed as a peaking station with
a plant load factor of about 17.5 percent after 1994. Upper and lower
developments can be operated independently and at different load factors on a
daily basis because of the balancing reservoir between the two developments.
B. Prolposed ExDansion Plan for MSEB System for 1989/90 - 1994/95
26.         MSEB plans to commission the following schemes during 1989/90 -
1994/95:
Generating Capacity
MSEB intends to commission 2,200 MW thermal capacity during this
period. Of the schemes listed below Chandrapur and Kaperkeda are already
under construction. In addition GOMID intends to install 123 MW of Small
Canal Head hydro plants, which would be handed for operation upon completion
to MSEB.
Nominal Capacity                     Year of
Name                           (MW)            Type           Commissioning
Chandrapur
Unit 5                      500             Steam                1990
Unit 6                      500                                  1991
Kaperkeda New
Unit 1                      210             Steam                1990
Unit 2                      210                                  1991
Unit 3                      210                                  1995
Unit 4                      210                                  1995
Uran Gas
Unit 1                      120             Heath Recovery       1993
Unit 2                      120                                  1993
Unit 3                      120                                  1995



-99-
Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 11
Small Hydro
12 Small Canal             123             Hydro                1990-95
Head Stations
Transmission Lines
The following transmission lines and associated substations are
required for power evacuation of the proposed generation schemes and for
reinforcement of the existing grid. In addition to these lines MSEB is
contemplating the construction of a 500 kV HDVC line between Chandrapur and
Lonikand (600 km). NSEB would arrange financing for this line separately.
The estimated cost of the line is US$450 million.
Length            No. of            Year of
Name                     (km)              Circuits          Commissioning
400 kV
Sardar Sarovar -
Babhaleswar              306                2                  1995
Koyna - Lonikand           180                1                  1994
Koyna - Karad               80                2                  1994
Koradi - Bhus,awal         400                1                  1994
Other Minor                 90                2                  1990-1995
220 kV
Uran - Kharghar             65                2                  1991
Chinchwad - Bhosari -
Lonikand - Theur -
Phursungi - Parvati
Chinchwad                  128                2                  1993
Aurangabad - Jalna          50                2                  1994
Koyna III - Rajpur         100                1                  1994
Other Miscenalleous         90                2                  1990-1995
Other Miscellaneous         70                1                  ,990-1995
220 kV Feeders to
Railway Substations       200                1                  1990-1995



-100-
Armex 3
Page 7 of 11
Transmqission Lines
The following transmission lines and associated substations are
required for power evacuation of the proposed generation schemes and for
reinforcement of the existing gx'd. In addition to these lines MSEB is
contemplating the construction of a 500 kV HDVC line between Chandrapur and
Lonikand (600 km). MSEB would arrange financing for this line separately.
The e- mated cost of the line is US$450 million.
Length            No. of             Year of
m(km              Circuits           gommLssioning
400 kV
Sardar Sarovar -
Babhaleswar              306                 2                 1995
Koyna - Lonikand           180                 1                  1994
Koyna - Karad               80                 2                  1994
Koradi - Bhusawal          400                 1                  1994
Other Minor                 90                 2                  1990-1995
220 kV
Uran - Kharghar             65                 2                  1991
Chinchwad - Bh. ,ri -
Lonikand - Theur -
Phursungi - Parvati
Chinchwad                  128                 2                  1993
Aurangabad - Jalna          50                 2                  1994
Koyna III - Rajpur         100                 1                  1994
Other Miscenalleous         90                 2                  1990-1995
Other Miscellaneous         70                 1                  1990-1995
220 kV Feeders to
Railway Substations       200                 1                  1990-1995



-101-
Annex 3.1
Page 8 of 11
132 kV
6 Loop-in-loop out
lines to new substations
in lengths varying from
15 to 75 km               150                 2                 1990-1995
20 minor lines in length
varying from 10 to 45 km  715                 1                 1990-1995
Substatin
Number of Transformers
Name                          and Capacity (MVA)            Voltages (kV)
Koradi - Ext                            lx315                   400/220
Bhusawal - Ext                          4x105                   400/220
Babhaleshwar - Ext                      4x167                   400/220
Karad - Ext                             lx315                   400/220
Dhule - Kharghar                        8x105                   400/220
Akola                                   4x105                   400/220
Aurangabad                              4x105                   400/220
Yaeotmal                                lx25                    220/11
Hurud                                   lx25                    220/33
Malharpeth                              lx25                    220/33
lx25                    220/11
Khadki                                  2x50                    220/22
Panvel                                  lx50                    220/33/22
Loteparshuram                           2x25                    220/33
Kanhan                                  2x150                   220/132
Chandrapur MIDC                         lx50                    220/132
lx16                    132/11
Boisar                                  2xlO0                   220/132
2x25                    220/33
Ichalkaranji                           *2xlO0                   220/110
lx50                    220/33
Khopoli                                 2xlO0                   220/100
Barshi                                  2x50                    220/110
Malegaon                                2xlO0                   220/132
Rajapur                                 2x50                    220/110
Kharghar                                2x200                   220/100
2x25                    100/22
Nhava                                   lxlOO                   220/100
Pirangut                                2x25                    220/22
Jalna                                   2xlO0                   220/132
lx16                    132/11
Chinchwad - Bhosari -
Lonikand - Theur - Phursungi -
Parvati                                 lxlO0                   220/22
2x50                    220/22



-102-
Annex 3.1
Paga 9 of 11
Uired                                    2x25                     220/33
Bhramapuri                               lx50                     220/132
lx25                     220/33
lx16                     132/11
Gadchiroli -                             1x25                     220/33
Balharshah                               1x50                     220/66
Virur                                    lx25                     220/33
Hinganghat                               lx50                     220/132
2xl6                     132/11
Wardha-II                                lx50                     220/132
2x16                     132/11
Butibori                                 lx50                     220/132
lx16                     132/33
lx16                     132/11
Badnera                                  lx25                     220/11
Dharangaon                               lx25                     220/33
1x25                     220/11
Akola                                    lxlOO                    220/132
1x16                     132/11
1x16                     132/33
Chikhali                                 lx25                     220/33
Ix16                     220/11
Peth                                     lxlOO                    220/132
1x25                     132/33
1x16                     132/11
Halkarni                                 1x25                     220/33
Parbhani                                 lx50                     220/132
Takari                                   3x50                     220/33
2x50                     220/33
Jetjuri                                  1x25                     220/33
Alephata                                 1x25                     220/33
Chopda                                   lx25                     220/33
lx16                     132/11
Beed                                     lx25                     220/33
lx16                     132/11
Establishment of about                   25x25                    132/33
60 new 132/22 kV and                     2x16                     132/33
132/11 kV substations                    2x25                     132/11
42x16                    132/11
Distribution Systems
MSEB would implement improvements and development of distribution
systems in five major urban centers in Maharashtra as follows:
OMts                   Brief Description
Thane           i)    22/11 kV, 2xlO IVA subrtation (s/stn) - 4 Nos
ii)    22 kV switching station (Swt./stn.) - 4 Nos
iii)    22 kV D/C line - 61 km



-103-
Annex 3.1
Page 10 of 11
iv)    22 kV underground (U/G) cable feeder - 40 kms
v)    22 kV Ring main units - 15 Nos
vi)    22 kV DTCs - 56 Nos
vii)    Conversion of L.T. overhead (OH) to underground (U/G) -
102 km
viii)    H.T. metering equipmei.ts - 50 Nos
ix)    11/0.5 kV DTCs - 30 Nos
x)    11 kV Cable for above DTC and addl. for strengthening -
105 kms
xi)    Replacement of old deteriorated 11 kV cable - 30 kms
xii)    Conversion of overhead (OH) L.T. to underground (U/G) -
125 kms
Dombivali       i)    22/11 kV, 2x10 MVA s/stn. at Dombivali
ii)   Renovation of existing Netivali s/s
iii)    11 kV, 3 MVAR capacitors - 6 Nos
iv)    22 kV S/C line for interconnection for formulation
Ring II etc. - 14.2 kms
v)    Conversion of O.H. 22 kV line to 11 kV U/G - 80 kms
vi)    Ilk V R.M.U. - 100 Nos
vii)    Addl. 22/0.4 kV DTCs - 15
viii)   Replacement of 22/0.4 kV DTCs by 110.4 DTC - 107 Nos
ix)    L.T. 3 1/2 U/G Cable - 149.3 kms
Ulhasnagar       i)    22/11 kV, 2x10 MVA, 2x5 MVA s/s at Ulhasnagar - 8 Nos
ii)    22 kV Switching stns. - 3 Nos
iii)    11 kV U/G cable - 103 kms
iv)    22 kV U/G cable - 5 kms
v)    11/0.4 kV DTC with U/G system - 170 Nos
vi)    22/0.4 kV DTC with U/C - 20 Nos
O.H. - 8 Nos
vii)    U.G. L.T.  3 1/2 c Cables - 132 kms
viii)    Provision of mini feeder pillars - 3170 Nos
Nagour          i)    33/11 kV, 2x5 MVA s/stn. - 13 Nos
ii)    33/11 kV, 3x10 MVA s/stn. at MRS
iii)    33 kV D/C line - 100 kms
iv)    33 kV bays for ring main & interlinking - 48 Nos
v)    11 kV U/G cable - 315 kms
vi)    11 kV ABC system - 60 kms
vii)    11 kV O.H. S/C line - 40 kms
viii)    11 kV Switchgear replacement - 20 Nos
ix)    Conversion of existing DTCs into U/G - 530 Nos
x)    U.G. L.T. XLPE cable - 1128 kms
xi)   L.T. 3 1/2 C ABC system - 246 kIs
St. Lt. - 246 kms
Pune            i)    22/11 kV, 2x5 MVA s/stn. - 13 Nos
ii)    22 kV swt. stns. - 5 Nos
iii)    In1:erlinking of 22 kV existing network with 220/22 kV



-104-
Annex 3.1
Page 11 of 11
EHV Parvati and Aug. of 22/11 kV Parvati
Lv)    22 kV U/G Cable for interlinking prop. 132/22 kV GIS
at Rasta Peth, Ganeshkhind
v)    Reconductoring of 22 kV Ring main feeders - 140 kms
vi)    Renovation of existing 22/11 kV s/s - 3 Nos
vii)    Providing Unitised DTC - 40 Nos
viii)    Renovation existing DTCs - 200 Nos
ix)    Providing addl. DTCs 22/0.4 & 11/0.4 - 210 Nos
x)    Conversion of 11 kV O.H. to U/G - 125 kius



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Koyna Hydroelectdc Power Plant
Implementation Schedule fbr Ptysical Wodcs
YW         1988                            19"              191             1992             1993            1.d              1995
QUARIFR  1   2  3   4   1   2   3  4   t  2   3   4   t   2  3  4_             1 2   3  _   1   2   3   4   _   2   3   4       2 |3| 
ACCES ROADS AND TUNtNElS                    __ _ _ ___ _I                                                                                      It   
a0LUKSMCONlRAC1S                                                                   I _ Hl                                                         C>
CO CIforSd
MTAKE                                                                                                        j                                   Award ConrA Co|
ICmmarafon Guucro*g Untfl
IRASHRA(K AND GAIE ST*CTtRES                                                               Ctr b l .cnrl   GtL es
I*ADERACE 1RHL                                                                                                       -
SURSE SHAFT VALVE CAVERN AND TAK(EOF S                                                                                   Ccncr
PRESME SHAJ AND PENSTOCKS                                                                     EL                                
MACH?E HALL                                                                              -- -
TRANSSMER CAVE'N AND MS UNNELS                                                                       -                 j  |                                                        11
DAFT RW AND GTE CAvTRN lllllIIL1      
CABLE lli*JELS                                                                           -  -   E|cavtn
TAIL RACE llJNNEL                          l                               _Exc_ _tion              ItCarI               n
CKAWaAMOMFTgMXTM                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Excavaption  Excavati                                    UtI
CHAt^~DtELn AND QJILET TTUCTE                                                              I                 D                                   I        c un   2
l                 B   |   | ~BA                            1         SP              'IG l SCtiOf       | {C |kv 'n3
lWIfANDGENERAIO4S                                                     8           A   I  1                                                                             3
a      A 
mAVELING CRAmS                                                                    I |                    t C f   2nt
MAbJ SEP-tN' ANs4F'QM>S ll||llll11_]ha
a  A
amS DUCTS                                                                           Ynd
INDOOR WMCHG;EAR                                                                                   A                                         IInstall
B   A
c~YIi~t I~OtC1oNAW, rCOMMUNIATION                                                                                                                                             l
CONIQOt PQROTCTr AlC(At                       l                                    l | | |ns    l l lt                                      tcoil
POM  CABLES                                                    |
(OMfOOR WlXCHWARD                                                  j               B         |   WW
Woad Bor*-4445O 1



-106-
INDIA                                        Annex  3.3
Page 1 of 7
tfAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Projected Detailed Cost Table
Koyna Power Station
(Million Rupees)
Base Costs
Year    88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
Infrastructure             104.0    91.5    12.5      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   208.0
Access Roads                54.6    10.4      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    65.0
Koyna Dam Repairs            0.0      0.0    25.0    25.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    50.0
Access Tumnels, Tailrace    61.6   123.2    46.2    46.2    30.8       0.0     0.0     0.0   308.0
Intake & Headrace Tunnel     0.0     0.0    48.7   113.7   113.7    48.7       0.0     0.0   325.0
Penstock & Powerhouse        0.0      0.0    54.3   126.7  126.7   54.3        0.0     0.0   362.0
Penstock Steel Liner         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   129.6   86.4       0.0     0.0   216.0
Sub-Total                  220.2   225.1   186.7   311.6  400.8  189.4         0.0     0.0  1534.0
B. Equipment
Turbines & Generators        0.0    52.8    52.8    52.8   510.4  580.8   316.8   193.6  1760.0
Travelling Crane             0.0      0.0     3.4    12.0    17.8    10.6      4.3     0.0    48.0
Main Stepup Transformers      0.0     0.0     0.0    12.0   60.0    90.0    30.0       8.0   200.0
Buss Ducts                   0.0      0.0     0.0     2.6      4.8    12.2    12.2     5.2    37.0
Outdoor Switchgear            0.0     0.0     0.0    10.8   46.2   58.5    23.1    15.4   154.0
Indoor Switchgear            0.0      0.0     0.0     1.9    10.8      4.9     5.9     3.5    27.0
Power Cables                 0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    18.1   142.7   26.1    14.1   201.0
AC/DC Auxiliaries             0.0     2.4     1.2     0.0      0.0     6.2     6.2     4.0    20.0
Commun, Control, Protec.     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    18.4      0.0     0.0     0.6    19.0
Gates, Stoplogs, etc.        0.0      0.0     0.0     9.0    27.0      9.0     0.0     0.0    45.0
Auxiliary Services            0.0     0.0     0.0     4.1      1.8    14.8    12.9     3.3    37.0
Equipment Erection           0.0      0.0    13.0   26.0    26.0    26.0   26.0    13.0   130.0
Erection & Const'ra Plant    0.0      7.4    18.5    11.1      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    37.0
Sub-Total                    0.0    62.6    88.9   142.2  741.3   955.7  463.6   260.7  2715.0
C. Project Engineering
Local Eng. & Adoinist'n     28.3    40.5    60.7    60.7    72.9    60.7    40.5    40.5   405.0
Consulting Services          0.0      3.7     5.5     5.5      5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5    37.0
Sub-Total                    28.3    44.2    66.3    66.3    78.4    66.3    46.0    46.0   442.0
D. Land
Land for Construction        11.2     2.8     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    14.0
TotaL INVESTMENT COSTS              259.7   334.7  341.9   520.2  1220.6  1211.4   509.7  306.7  4705.0
S=1=3= *==S=33==3=3 = U==U3==31 =333 =2=-S==3 ==  333= =3====3=3S==
Total                            259.7   334.7   341.9   520.2  1220.6  1211.4   509.7   306.7  4705.0
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  5/18/1989  10:45



-107-                                           Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 7
Koyna Power Station
(Million US$)
Base Costs in US Dollars
Year   88/89  89/90 90/91  91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95  95/96  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
Infrastructure             7.1   6.3    0.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   14.2
Access Roads               3.7   0.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.5
Koyna Dam Repairs          0.0   0.0   1.7   1.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.4
Access Tumnels, Talrace   4.2   8.4   3.2   3.2   2.1   0.0   0.0   0.0  21.1
Intake & Headrace Tunnet    0.0   0.0   3.3   7.8   7.8   3.3   0.0   0.0  22.3
Penstock & Pouerhouse      0.0   0.0   3.7   8.7   8.7   3.7   0.0   0.0  24.8
Penstock Steel Liner       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   8.9   5.9   0.0   0.0  14.8
Sub-Total                 15.1  15.4  12.8  21.3  27.5  13.0   0.0   0.0  105.1
B. Equipment
Turbines & Generators      0.0   3.6   3.6   3.6  35.0  39.8  21.7  13.3  120.5
Travelling Crane           0.0   0.0   0.2   0.8   1.2   0.7   0.3   0.0   3.3
Main Stepup Transformers    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.8   4.1   6.2   2.1   0.5   13.7
Buss Ducts                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.3   0.8   0.8   0.4   2.5
Outdoor Switchgear         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.7   3.2   4.0    1.6   1.1  10.5
Indoor Switchgear          0.0    0.0   0.0   0.1    0.7   0.3   0.4   0.2   1.8
Power Cables               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.2   9.8   1.8   1.0  13.8
AC/DC Auxiliaries          0.0   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.4    0.3   1.4
Commun, Control, Protec.    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   1.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.3
Gates, Stoplogs, etc.      0.0    0.0   0.0   0.6   1.8   0.6   0.0   0.0   3.1
Auxiliary Services         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.1    1.0   0.9   0.2   2.5
Equipment Erection         0.0   0.0    0.9   1.8   1.8    1.8   1.8   0.9   8.9
Erection & Const'n Plant   0.0   0.5    1.3   0.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.5
..-- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ------ ------. .. ... ...
Sub-Total                  0.0   4.3   6.1    9.7  50.8  65.5  31.8  17.9  186.0
C. Project Engineering
Local Eng. & Administ'n     1.9   2.8   4.2   4.2   5.0   4.2   2.8   2.8  27.7
Consulting Services        0.0   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   2.5
Sub-Total                   1.9   3.0   4.5   4.5   5.4   4.5   3.2   3.2  30.3
D. Land
Land for Construction      0.8   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    1.0
T IT.8   2.9--   23.-  35.6  83.6--  8     34.9  21.0  322.3-
Total I1VSTMENT CosTs             17.8  22.9  23.4  35.6  83.6  83.0  34.9  21.0 322.3
a ===  ==,==, ==== ===C==
Total                          17.8  22.9  23.4  35.6  83.6  83.0  34.9  21.0 322.3
- Vatues scated by 1000000.0  5/18/1989  10:46



-108-                                      Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 7
Koyna Power Station
(Million Rupees)
Totals Including Contingencies
Year   88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  TotaL
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
Infrastructure          119.5  114.1   16.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    C.0  250.4
Access Roads             62.5   12.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   75.5
Koyna Dam Repairs         0.0    0.0   37.6   40.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   77.9
Access Turwels, Tailrace   80.2  173.8   70.0   75.0   53.5    0.0    0.0    0.0  452.4
Intake & Headrace Tur eL    0.0    0.0   73.4  183.6  196.5   89.8    0.0    0.0  543.3
Penstock & Powerhouse     0.0    0.0   81.8  204.5  218.8  100.0    J.0    0.0  605.1
Penstock Steel Liner      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  195.5  138.8    0.0    0.0  334.3
Sub-Total               262.3  300.8  279.5  503.4  664.3  328.6    0.0    0.0 2338.9
S. Equipment
Turbines & Generators     0.0   64.5   89.2   74.3  768.3  931.2  541.0  352.1  2800.5
Travetling Crane          0.0    0.0    4.4   16.9   26.8   16.9    7.4    0.0   72.4
Pain Stepup Transformers    0.0    0.0    0.0   16.9   90.3  144.3   51.2   14.6  317.4
Buss Ducts                0.0    0.0    0.0    3.6    7.2   19.6   20.9    9.4   60.8
Outdoor Switchgoar        0.0    0.0    0.0   15.2   69.6   93.9   39.5   28.0  246.2
Indoor Switchgear         0.0    0.0    0.0    2.7   16.3    7.8   10.2    6.4   43.3
Power Cables              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   27.3  229.6   44.8   25.7  327.3
AC/DC Auxiliaries         0.0    2.9    1.6    0.0    0.0    9.9   10.6    7.3   32.3
Coimun, Control, Protec.    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   28.1    0.0    0.0    1.1   29.2
Gates, Stoplogs, etc.     0.0    0.0    0.0   12.9   41.3   14.7    0.0    0.0   68.9
Auxiliary Services        0.0    0.0    0.0    5.8    2.8   24.1   22.4    6.1   61.3
Equipment Erection        0.0    0.0   17.4   37.3   39.9   42.6   45.4   24.2  206.7
Erection & Const'n Plant    0.0    9.2   24.6   15.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   49.5
Sub-Total                 0.0   76.6  117.1  201.3 1118.0 1534.7  793.2  474.8 4315.8
C. Project Engineering
Local Eng. & Adoinist'n    32.6   50.5   81.4   87.1  111.9   99.5   70.6   75.2  608.9
Consulting Services       0.0    4.5    7.3    7.8    8.4    8.9    9.5   10.1   56.4
Sub-Total                32.6   55.0   88.7   94.9  120.2  108.4   80.1   85.3  665.3
0. Land
Land for Construction    11.7    3.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   14.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS         306.6  435.6  485.3  799.6 1902.5 1971.7  873.3  560.1  7334.8
S=U===u *u-=3  U==-=S= ==---== ====== -aZ ===========g  ==D zz =====2=
Total                       306.6  435.6  485.3  799.6 1902.5 1971.7  873.3  560.1  7334.8
- Vaues scaled by 1000000.0 5/18/1989 10:46



-109-                                       Annex  3.3
Page 4 of 7
Koyna Power Station
(flillion US$)
Totats IncItding Contingencies                    Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Year   88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  Total     F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Totat
.. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . ... . . . ....... ..   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civit Works
Infrastructure              8.2    7.6    1.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  16.9          0.0    16.9    0.0   16.9
Access Roads                4.3    0.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.1         1.0    4.1      0.0    5.1
Koyn Dm Repairs             0.0    0.0    2.S    2.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.0         2.5     2.5     0.0    5.0
Access Turnets, Taitrace    5.5   11.6    4.6    4.8    3.3    0.0    0.0    0.0  29.8          5.9   23.9      0.0   29.8
Intake & Headrace TunneL   0.0    0.0    4.8  11.7  12.2    5.4    0.0    0.0  34.2            15.2   19.0      0.0   34.2
Penstock & Powerhouse       0.0    0.0    5.4   13.0  13.6   6.1    0.0    0.0  38.0           16.9   21.1      0.0   38.0
Penstock Steel Liner        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  12.1    8.4    0.0    0.0  20.5          15.3     3.8     1.4   20.5
Sub-Total                  18.0  20.1   18.3  32.1   41.2  19.9    0.0    0.0  149.6           56.8   91.4      1.4  149.6
S. Equipment
Turbines & Generators       0.0    4.3    4.5    4.7  47.7  56.5  32.1  20.4  170.2           125.6   13.9   30.6  170.2
Travetling Crane            0.0    0.0    0.3    1.1    1.7    1.0   0.4    0.0    4.5          3.3     0.5     0.7    4.5
Main Stepup Transformers    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.1    5.6    8.8    3.0    0.8   19.3        14.3     1.8     3.3   19.3
Buss Ducts                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    0.4    1.2    1.2   0.5    3.7          2.7     0.4     0.5     3.7
Outdoor Switchgear          0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0   4.3    5.7    2.3    1.6  14.9          11.0     1.7     2.2   14.9
Indoor Switchgear           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    1.0    0.5    0.6    0.4    2.6         1.9    0.3      0.4     2.6
Power Cables                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.7  13.9    2.7    1.5  19.8          12.6     4.0     3.2   19.8
AC/DC Auxitiaries           0.0    0.2   0.1    0.0    0.0    0.6    0.6    0.4    2.0          1.5     0.2     0.3    2.0
Commun, Controt, Protec.   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.7   0.0    0.0    0.1    1.8           0.4     1.3     0.2     1.8
Gates, Stoptogs, etc.       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.8    2.6    0.9    0.0    0.0    4.3         0.4     3.9     0.0    4.3
Auxitiary Services          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.4    0.2    1.5    1.3    0.4    3.7         0.9     2.2     0.6    3.7
Equipment Erection          0.0    0.0    1.1    2.4    2.5    2.6    2.7    1.4   12.7         0.0    12.7     0.0    12.7
Erection & Const'n PLant    0.0    0.6    1.6    1.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.2          1.0     1.7     0.6     3.2
. ....   ...... ...    ...... ....            .. .         ...        ... ...... ....... ..
Sub-Total                   0.0    5.1    7.7   12.8   69.4   93.1   47.0   27.5  262.6       175.5   44.5   42.5  262.6
C. Project Engineering
Locat Eng. & Administ'n     2.2    3.4    5.3    5.6    6.9    6.0    4.2    4.4  38.0          0.0   38.0      0.0   38.0
Consulttnn Services         0.0    0.3    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6    3.5         3.1     0.4     0.0    3.5
Sub-Totat                   2.2    3.7    5.8    6.1    7.5    6.6       7   4.9   41.5         3.1    38.4     0.0   41.5
D. Land
Land for Construction       0.8    0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0         0.0     1.0    0.0      1.0
.      .... ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ .   .  . -------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             21.0   29.1   31.8   51.0  118.0  119.6   51.8   32.5  454.7       235.5   175.3   44.0   454.7
==a== 3255ns "Ju a.======  ======-. can 505cC= =  =      =z25              =a==35 = s Zsauss  5==
Total                           21.0  29.1   31.8   51.0  118.0  119.6  51.8  32.5  454.7          235.5   175.3    44.0   454.7
Values scaled k'y 1000000.0  5/18/1989  10:46



-110-                                         Annex 3.3
Page 5 of 7
tISEB Investments InTransmission and Distribution
Base Cost in Million Rupees                       Base Cost  in Million US Dollars
Year   88/89  89/90  90/91   91/92   92-96   Total        88/89  89/90 90/91  91/92 92-96  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
............. ............. .
A. Transmission Investments
Tranrmission Towers           0.0   132.0  264.0  264.0       0.0  660.0        0.0   9.0   18.1   18.1    0.0   45.2
Conductor                     0.0   184.0  368.0  368.0    0.0  920.0           0.0  12.6  25.2   25.2   0.0   63.0
Shield Wire                   0.0     7.6   15.2   15.2    0.0   38.0           0.0    0.5    1.0    1.0   0.0    2.6
Insulators and Hardware       0.0   70.0  140.0  140.0    0.0  350.0            0.0   4.8    9.6   9.6    0.0  24.0
XLPE Cable                    0.0  300.0  600.0  100.0    0.0  1000.0           0.0  20.5  41.1    6.8    0.0  68.5
400-kV Transformers          20.0    40.0   60.0    80.0      0.0   200.0       1.4   2.7   4.1    5.5    0.0   13.7
220-kV, 132-kV Transform.   44.0   88.0  154.0  154.0    0.0  440.0             3.0   6.0   10.5  10.5   0.0  30.1
Relays & Control Equipmet    0.0   30.0   30.0   40.0         0.0  100.0        0.0   2.1    2.1    2.7   0.0    6.8
metering Instruments          0.0   40.5   40.5   54.0    0.0  135.0            0.0    2.8    2.8    3.7    0.0   9.2
Steel Structures              8.0   32.0   32.0    8.0        0.0   80.0        0.5    2.2    2.2    0.5    0.0   5.5
400-kV Switchgear             0.0   60.0   60.0   80.0        0.0  200.0        0.0   4.1    4.1    5.5    0.0   13.7
220-kV, 132-kV Switchgear     0.0   52.0  104.0  104.0    0.0  260.0            0.0   3.6    7.1    7.1    0.0   17.8
Erection of Lines & Subst   21.6  310.8  560.3  422.2         0.0  1314.9       1.5  21.3  38.4  28.9   0.0  90.1
Eng. & Adm. MSES              2.8   40.4   72.8   54.9    0.0   170.9           0.2    2.8    5.0    3.8    0.0   11.7
Sub-Total                    96.4  1387.3  2500.9  1884.2     0.0  5868.8       6.6  95.0  171.3  129.1    0.0  402.0
S. Investments in ofstributn
Power Transformers            0.0    6.3      7.5    11.2    0.0    25.0        0.0    0.4    0.5    0.8    0.0    1.7
Switchgear and Breakers       0.0    28.8   34.5    51.7    0.0   115.0         0.0    2.0    2.4    3.5    0.0    7.9
Power Cables                  0.0   112.5  135.0  202.5       0.0  450.0        0.0    7.7   9.2   13.9   0.0  30.8
ABC Cables                    0.0    15.0   18.0   27.0    0.0   60.0           0.0    1.0    1.2    1.8   0.0   4.1
Low Tension Cables            0.0    16.3    19.5   29.2      0.0   65.0        0.0    1.1    1.3   2.0    0.0   4.5
Ring Main Units               0.0     8.0    9.6    14.4    0.0   32.0          0.0    0.5    0.7    1.0   0.0    2.2
Capacitors                    0.0     4.0     4.8     7.2     0.0    16.0       0.0    0.3    0.3    0.5    0.0    1.1
Distribution Transformers     0.0   32.5   39.0   58.5    0.0   130.0           0.0    2.2    2.7   4.0    0.0   8.9
On-toad Switches              0.0     1.0     1.2     1.8    0.0      4.0       0.0   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.3
Miscellaneous Subst. Eq.      0.0     7.3     8.7    13.0    0.0   29.0         0.0   0.5    0.6    0.9    0.0    2.0
Feeder Pillars                0.0     9.5    11.4   17.1      0.0   38.0        0.0    0.7    0.8    1.2    0.0    2.6
Erection of Distr. Equip.    0.0   72.3   86.8  130.1         0.0  289.2        0.0    5.0    5.9    8.9    0.0  19.8
Eng. & Adm. hSEB              0.0     9.4    11.3    16.9    0.0    37.6        0.0    0.6    0.8    1.2   0.0    2.6
......-     -------     -------     -----...--.... .... ........ ....------... ....------- .... . ......     ......     ......   ........     ......     ...........
Sub-Total                     0.0  322.7  387.2  580.9    0.0  1290.8           0.0  22.1  26.5  39.8    0.0  88.4
C. Institutional Development
Training/Consulting Ser.      6.0.  12.0   12.0    0.0        0.0   30.0        0.4    0.8    0.8    0.0    0.0   2.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              102.4  1722.0  2900.1  2465.1     0.0  7189.6       7.0  117.9  198.6  168.8   0.0  492.4
. ...azz mist-nn  au"   ssus ...................". ,-. ms  ="s Sununu.... -.  . w ""us...... ........... =sacss
Total                            102.4  1722.0  2900.1  2465.1     0.0  7189.6       7.0  117.9  198.6  168.8   0.0 492.4
Volues scaled by 1000000.0 5/18/1989 10:48



-111-                                       Annex 3.3
Page 6 of 7
MSEB Investments In Transmission and Distribution
Base Costs in Milliou Rupees                  Base Costs in Million US Dollars
Year    U1/89  89/90  90/91   91/92  92-96   Total    a8/89  89/90 90/91  91/92  92-96  Total
...  . . ........... . . .. ....... .. .............. .........................  ....... ............ .....................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
. .. ... .......
A. Transmission Investments
Transmission Towers          0.0  161.8  347.1  372.4    0.0  U81.3            0.0   j.8  22.7  23.8   0.0  57.3
Corductor                    0.0  226.0  485.0  520.3    0.0  1231.4           0.0  15.1  31.8  33.2   0.0  80.1
Shield Wire                  0.0    9.3   20.0   21.4    0.0   50.7            0.0   0.6    1.3   1.4   0.0   3.3
Insulators and Hardware      0.0   86.0  184.5  197.9    0.0  468.4            0.0   5.7  12.1   12.6   0.0  30.5
XLPE Cable                   0.0  367.4  788.0  141.0    0.0  1296.3           0.0  24.5  51.6   9.0   0.0  65.2
400-kV Transformers         22.7   49.0   78.8  112.8    0.0  263.2            1.6   3.3   5.2    7.2   0.0  17.2
220-kV, 132-kV Transform.   49.9  107.8  202.2  217.1    0.0  576.9            3.4    7.2  13.3  13.8   0.0  37.7
Relays & Control Equipmet    0.0   36.7   39.4   56.4    0.0  132.5            0.0   2.5   2.6   3.6   0.0   8.6
Metering Instrtments         0.0   49.6   53.2   76.1        0.0  178.9        0.0   3.3   3.5    4.9   0.0   11.7
Steel Structures             9.1   39.3   42.2   11.3    0.0  101.9            0.6   2.6   2.8   0.7   0.0   6.7
400-kV Switchgear            0.0   73.5   78.8  112.8    0.0  265.0            0.0   4.9   5.2    7.2   0.0  17.3
220-kV. 132-kV Suitchgear    0.0   63.7  136.6  146.6    0.0  346.9            0.0   4.3   9.0   9.3   0.0  22.6
Erection of Lines I Subst   24.8  387.6  751.0  605.4    0.0  1768.8           1.7  25.9  49.2  38.6   0.0  115.4
Eng. * Adm. MSEB             3.2   50.4   97.6   78.7    0.0  229.9            0.2   3.4   6.4    5.0   0.0  15.0
,......... .......    .......... .......    .......... ... .... . . .---.....-..------.... ...----....-....------.... .....--....--....--...---- .
Sub-Total                  109.7  1708.0 3304.2  2670.2    0.0 7792.1          7.5  114.1  216.5  170.3   0.0  508.4
S. Investments in Distributn
Power Transformers           0.0     7.7    9.9   16.0    0.0   33.6           0.0   O.S   0.7    1.0   0.0   2.2
Switchgear and Breakers      0.0   35.5   45.7   73.5        0.0  154.7        0.0   2.4   3.0   4.7   0.0  10.1
Power Cables                 0.0  138.9  178.9  287.6    0.0  605.3            0.0   9.3  11.7  18.3   0.0  39.3
ABC Cables                   0.0   18.5   23.8   38.3    0.0   80.7            0.0    1.2   1.6   2.4    0.0   5.2
Low Tension Cables           0.0   20.1   25.8   41.5    0.0   87.4            0.0    1.3   1.7   2.6    0.0   5.?
Ring Main Units              0.0    9.9   12.7   20.5    0.0   43.0            0.0    0.7   0.8    1.3   0.0   2.8
Capacitors                   0.0    4.9    6.4   10.2    0.0   21.5            0.0   0.3   0.4    0.7   0.0   1.4
Distribution Transformers    0.0   40.1    51.7   83.1       0.0  174.9        0.0    2.7   3.4    5.3   0.0  11.4
On-load Switches             0.0      1.2    1.6    2.6    0.0    5.4          0.0   0.1   0.1    0.2   0.0   0.3
Miscellaneous Subst. Er1-    0.0    8.9    11.5   18.5    0.0   39.0           0.0    0.6   0.8    1.2   0.0   2.5
Feeder Pillars               0.0   11.7   15.1   24.3    0.0   51.1            0.0    0.8   1.0   1.5   0.0   3.3
Erection of Distr. Equip.    0.0   90.2  116.3  186.6    0.0  393.1            0.0   6.0    7.6  11.9   0.0  25.5
Eng. & Adm. MSES             0.0    11.7   15.1   24.3    0.0   51.1           0.0    0.8    1.0   1.5   0.0   3.3
.............  .. .....  ..... ...  ........  ........    . .. .......  .. ....  ... ...  ... ...  ........  ......  .... ....  
Sub-Total                    0.0  399.3  514.6  827.0    0.0  1740.9           0.0  26.7  33.7  52.7   0.0  113.1
C. Institutional Developent
Training/Consulting Ser.     6.8   14.8   15.9    0.0    0.0   37.5            0.5    1.C    1.0   0.0   0.0   2.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             116.5  2122.2 3834.7 3497.1       0.0 9570.5        8.0  141.8 251.3  223.0   0.0 624.1
*-=9| ss"a  =-*=Zo e8- *Susumu  $=u  t *X"mz    Sasso= am-s88  ca"a Russ==-g  =5-- a======
Total                            116.5  2122.2  3834.7 3497.1     0.0 9570.5        8.0  141.8  251.3  223.0   O.C 624.1
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  5/18/1989  10:48



-112-
Annex 3.3
Summary Account by  Project Component                                    Page  7 of  7
(Million Rupees)
MSED's                     Physical           Price
KOYNA IV  INVESTME                   Contingencies      Contingencies
POWER      NT                   ---------------------------------
STATION   PROGRAM      Total         X     Amount      X   Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Land                               14.0       0.0       14.0        0.0       0.0     6.3        0.9
B. Civil Wc es                      1534.0    1604.1    3138.1        15.0     470.6    28.4      892.1
C. Equipment & Materials            2715.0    5347.0    8062.0        10.0     806.2    31.5    2537.7
0. Training/Consulting Serv.           0.0      30.0       30.0       10.0       3.0    15.0        4.5
E. Local Eng'g & Acninist'n          442.0     208.5      650.5       10.0      65.1    35.5      230.8
Total BASELINE COSTS               4705.0    7189.6   11894.6         11.3    1344.8    30.8    3665.9
Physical Contingencies            625.8      719.0    1344.8
Price Contingencies               2004.0    1661.9    3665.9        10.2     373.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                 7334.8    9570.5   16905.3        10.2    1718.6    21.7    366',9
Taxes                              723.1     421.8    1144.9         9.1     104.1
Foreign Exchange                 3841.5    4677.3    8518.8         9.9      844.0
Values Sealed by 1000000.0 5/18/1989 12:15



-113-                                   Annex 34
Page. 1 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
...................... ...........................
Procurement Arrangements
.... ...... .... ...... ...
(Million USS) a/
ICB                 LCB                Other b/           N.A.
Contract     Bank   Contract     Bank   Contract        Bank   Contract
Project Element                           Value  Finance      Value  Finance       Value    Finance      Vatue    Total
A. Koyna Power Station
1. Civil Works
Infrastructure                                                                 16.9 c/                        16.9
Access Roads                                               5.1                                                  5.1
Koyna Dam Repairs                      5.0      3.0                                                             5.0
Access Tunels, Tailrace                                                        29.8 c/                         29.8
Intake & Headrace Tumel              34.2      20.5                                                           34.2
Penstock & Powerhouse                 38.0     22.8                                                           38.0
Penstock Steel Liner                  20.5      1.5                                                           20.5
11. Equipment
Turbines & Generators                170.2   139.5                                                            170.2
Travelling Crane                       4.5      3.5                                                            4.5
Main Stepup Transformers              19.3     14.7                                                            19.3
Buss Ducts                             3.7      2.9                                                            3.7
Outdoor Switchgear                    14.9     11.7                                                            14.9
Indoor Switchgear                     2.6       2.1                                                            2.6
Power Cables                          19.8     15.3                                                            19.8
AC/DC Auxiliaries                                          2.0      1.0                                         2.0
Commun, Control, Protec.               1.8      1.5                                                             1.8
Gates, Stoplogss  etc.                                     4.3      2.0                                        4.3
Auxiliary Services                                         3.7      1.8                                        _.7
Equipment Erection                     2.0      2.0       10.7                                                 12.7
Erection & Const'n Plant               3.1      2.0                                                            3.1
III. Project Engineering
Local Eng. & Administ'n                                                                              38.0     3h.0
Consulting Services                                                             3.5        3.5 b/               3.5
IV. Land
Land for Construction                                                                                 1.0       1.0
Subtotals                         339.6    253.0        25.8      4.8        50.2        3.5       39.0    454.6



-114-                                    Aex 3.4
Page 2 of 2
. . ..... ...... ... .... .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ICe                LCB                Other             N.A.
Contract     Bank  Contract    Bank  Contract         Sank   Contract
Project Element                          Value  Finance     Value  Finance      Value    Finnce       Value    Total
S. MSEB Investment in Tranum. & Distri.
1. Transmission Investments
Transmission Towers                  14.3    14.3       43.0                                               57.3
Conductor                            20.0    20.0       60.1                                               80.1
Shield Wire                          0.8      0.8         2.5                                                3.3
Insulators and Hardware              7.6      7.6       22.9                                               30.5
XLPE Cable                           21.3    21.3       63.9                                               85.2
400-kV Transformers                   4.3     4.3        12.9                                               17.2
220-kVy  132-kV Transform.           9.4      9.4       28.3                                               37.7
Relays & Control Equipment            2.2     2.2        6.4                                                8.6
Meterirg Instruments                  2.9     2.9        8.8                                                11.7
Steel Structures                      1.7      1.7       5.0                                                6.7
400-kV Switchgear                    4.3       4.3       13.0                                              17.3
200-kVy 132-kV Switchgear             5.0     5.0        17.6                                              22.6
Erection cl Lines & Subst             5.0     5.0       110.4     12.2                                     115.4
Eng. & Adm. MSEB                                                                                   15.0     15.0
11. Investments in Distributn.
Power Transformers                   0.5      0.5         1.7                                               2.2
Switchgear and Breakers               2.5     2.5        7.6                                                10.1
Power CabLes                         9.8      9.8       29.5                                               39.3
ABC Cables                            1.2      1.2       4.0                                                5.2
Low Tension Cables                    1.3      1.3       4.4                                                5.7
Ring Main Units                      0.6      0.6        2.2                                                2.8
Capacitors                           0.3       0.3       1.1                                                 1.4
Distribution Transformers             2.5      2.5       8.9                                                11.4
On-load Switches                      0.1      0.1        0.2                                                0.3
Miscelleaneous Subst. Eq.             0.6      0.6        1.9                                               2.5
Feeder Pillars                       0.7      0.7        2.6                                                3.3
Erection of Distr. Equip.                               25.5      5.1                                      25.5
Eng. & Adm. MSEB                                                                                   3.3      3.3
111. Institutional Development
Training/Consulting Ser.                                                     2.5        2.5 b/              2.5
Subtotals                         118.9    118.9     484.4      17.3       2.5        2.5       18.3   624.1
TOTALS                           458.5    371.9      510.2    22.1        52.7        6.0       57.3  1t078.7
a/ Figures subject to rounding errors.
b/ Consulting services to be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for employment of consultants.
c/ lmplemented departmentally.



-115-
Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
P'rocurement Schedule for Major ContractI
Furnish
Bid Docs.   Invite      Opening      Contract
Contract                         to  Bank    Bids         of Bids     Award
A. KOYNA IV POWER STATION
Civil Works
Intake, Headrace Tunnel, Surge
Shaft                              4/89      2/90       4/90          9/90
Pressure Shafts, Powerhouse,
Switchyard                         4/89      2/90       4/90          9/90
Penstock Steel Lining              4/89      2/90       4/90          9/90
Access Tunnels and Tailrace            In progress using Departmental forces
and local contract
EAuinment
'Turbogenerator Inits and Inlet
Valves & Auxil'.ry Equipment       5/89      1/90        3/90         9/90
Travelling Crane                  10/89      9/90      12/90          3/91
Main Stepup Transformers           7/89      6/89        8/90        12/90
Buss Ducts                         4/90      7/90      10/90          3/91
Outdoor Switchgear                 4/90      7/90      10/90          3/91
Indoor Switchgear                 10/90      1/91       4/91          9/91
400 kV Power Cables                4/91      7/91      10/91          3/92
AC/DC Auxiliary Equipment              To be carried out using Departmental
forces and local contracts.
Communication, Control &
Protection                         4/91      7/91      10/91          3/92



-116-
ADrmLx .5
Page 2 of 2
Furnish
Bid Docs.   Invite      Opening      Contract
Qontact                          to Bank      Bids        of Bids     Award
Auxiliary Services                     To be carried out using Departmental
forces and local contracts
Equipment Erection                     To be carried out using Departmental
forceas and local contracts
Erection and Constr. Equip.       10/90      1/91          4/91       9/91
B. TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT
The following elements to be       6/89      8/89         11/89       4/90
procured on the basis of three    5/90       7/90         10/90       4/91
annual rounds of procurement       5/91      7/91         10/92       4/92
in 1989, 1990 and 1991:
EauiRment and Materials for
Transmission lines and Substations
Transmission Towers
Conductor
Shield Wire
Insulators and Harduare
XLPE Cable
400 kV Transformers
220 kV, 132 kV Transform.
Relays & Ccntrol Equipment
Metering Instruments
Steel Structures
400 kV Switchgear
200 kV, 132 kV Switchgear
Eng. & Adm. MSEB
Eauipment and Materials for Distribution
Power Transformers
Switchgear and Breakers
Power Cables
ABC Cables
Low Tension Cables
Ring Main Units
Capacitors
Distribution Transformers
On-load Switches
Miscellaneous Subst. Eq.
Feeder Pillars
Erection of Distr. Equip.
Eng. & Adm. MSEB
Erection of Lines. Substations and
Distribution Works
(Several contracts)



-117-
Annex 3.6
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
,US$ Million)
Bank FY             Half Yearly
and Semester        Disbursement          Cumulative            Cumulative (%)
1989 I                     0.0                0.0                     0.0
II                   1.1                 1.1                     0.3
1990 I                    13.1               14.2                     3.5
II                  25.4                39.6                     9.9
1991 I                    30.0               69.6                    17.4
II                  41.4               111.0                    27.7
1992 I                    30.5              141.5                    35.8
II                  44.5               186.0                    46.5
1993 I                    32.3              218.3                    54.6
II                  43.3               261.6                    65.4
1994 I                    38.0              299.6                    74.9
II                  44.4               344.0                    86.0
1995 I                    15.4              359.4                    89.8
II                  19.4               378.8                    94.7
1996 I                    11.6              390.4                    97.6
II                   3.5               393.9                    98.5
1997 I                     6.1              400.0                   100.0
Maharashtra Power Project
Disbursement Profiles Comparison
120                                                           120
100                                                -100
60                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~60
40                                                           40
20                                                           20
0                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~0
t    2      3     4     6     6      7     8     9
Years
Cumulative Disburs.
Standard Profile I. 7 I Project Profile



-118-
Annex 3.7
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Panel of Exnerts
for the Koyna IV Hydroelectric Power Plant
1.          The main purpose of the Panel is the assurance of safe and
economic designs and efficient construction methods. This will be achieved
through periodic reviews during the detailed engineering and construction
phases to assess the need for changes in the design or in the construction
methods.
2.          The panel will include permanent members, expert in the following
fields:
- Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering and Underground Works
- Construction of Underground Works
- Concrete Dams and Hydraulic Structure Design
- Mechanical and Electrical including Large Size Turbines and
Generators.
3.          In discharging its duties the Panel may, if it co.nsiders it to be
advisable, request the assistance on a temporary basis, of experts in
specialized fields to extend the range of expertise of the Panel.
4.          The Panel, unless they otherwise decide, will meet regularly every
four months to review the status of technical works. It will also meet at the
request of the project authorities, if the need for more immediate
consultation were to arise.
5.          The Panel will prepare and submit written proceedings of its
meetings (regular or extraordinary) including recommendations, within three
weeks of each meeting, and in cases of urgency, will prepare technical
memorandums or aide memoire immediately after or during the meetings. A
preliminary report will be prepared before the adjournment of each meeting.
The preliminary reports, proceedings and any other memorandums, aide memoire
etc. will be submitted to the Project authorities and through them to the
Bank.
6.          The panel's responsibilities shall include but not necessarily be
limited to reviews of, and recommendation of necessary changes:
(a)   Layout modifications within the overall concept established in the
bid drawings;



-119-
Annex 3.7
Page 2 of 2
(b)   Design of individual components of the project including design
criteria;
(c)   The field investigation program covering geological and
geotechnical investigations in relation to surface and underground
structures and construction materials;
(d)   Concrete mix design, concrete material processing, testing and
quality control of concrete materials and concrete;
(e)   Design of temporary and permanent excavation supports for surface
and underground excavations;
(f)   Construction procedures, particularly in relation to underground
excavation and concreting;
(g)   Technical specification for major civil works and equipment;
(h)   Construction scheduling and planning; and
(i)   Instrumentation of underground excavations and of Koyna dam.
7.          The Panels assignment will extend until the completion of
construction of the project.



-120-
Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Suggested Terms of Reference for Engineering Consultancy Services
for Koyna IV
1.          The Maharashtra Irrigation Department is responsible for the
implementation of the Koyna IV Hydroelectric Plant. The design of the plant
to bidding level and the preparation of the draft bid documents has been
completed by the technical staff of the Department, and its construction
forces are engaged in preliminary works associated with construction. During
the implementation of the project the Department's design and construction
personnel will continue their heavy involvement, including the assumption of
direct responsibility for the following works:
(a) calling of bids and award of contracts;
(b) preparation of detailed designs for civil works, station
auxiliaries, gates, infrastructure and other miscellaneous works;
(c) the supervision of equipment supply contracts including checking
of manufacturers designs and drawings for major mechanical and
electrical equipment;
(d) the construction, using its own forces, of a component of the
civil works for the project which includes access roads and
tunnels, tailrace tunnel and infrastructure works;
(e) supervision of three major contracts for the bulk of the civil
works; and
(f) erection and installation under manufacturer's supervision of the
permanent plant and equipment in the powerhouse and switchyard.
2.          The project layout has been generally finalized and approved by
the Panel of Consultants (POE) that has been constituted for this project.
Therefore no further studies are anticipated in relation to project concept.
However the layout of individual structures may b-e reviewed during detailed
design with a view to obtaining maximum efficiency and economy.
3.          The Department's technical personnel have substantial experience
in the type of works envisaged. However in view of the importance of the
project, the Department intends to employ consultants to provide specialist
advice and assistance in specific areas with the object of achieving state of
the art design solutions and of maximizing the efficiency and economy of the
construction process. Certain areas where such assistance will be requested
have been identified at this stage, but the Department wishes to retain the



-121-
Page 2 of 3
option of requesting specialist assistance in other areas throughout the
course of the project, as and when the need for such assistance is identified.
4.    The specific areas, which have been identified at this stage, where the
advice and assistance of consultants will likely be required, are set out int
he following paragraphs. Department staff will have the primary
responsibility for carrying out the work, with consultants operating in an
advisory role.
(a)   technical evaluation of ICB civil works bids in accordance with
Bank procurement procedures;
(b)   technical evaluation of bids for turbines and generators;
(c) review of manufacturers designs ,drawings and model testing for
turbines and generators;
(d)   supervision of erection of turbine and generator units, and
testing and commissioning of the installation;
(e)   training in the use of computer methods in project management,
including supply of software for spreadsheet analysis and project
management, and microcomputers and associated hardware necessary
for utilization of the programs.
5.          Advice may be requested in any other area relating to the
Department's participation in this project. Therefore consultants should have
wide experience in the design and supervision of construction of large
underground works and in particular should have experience in the following
areas:
(a)   design and supervision of underground works of comparable scale to
those envisaged involving modern design methods and construction
techniques appropriate to Indian conditions;
(b)   design of permanent excavation support systems for underground
structures including specification of design imposed constraints
on construction procedures, and associated geotechnical and rock
mechanics analyses; if required by the Department this may incluide
review of design provisions in the light of experience in the
early stages of construction;
(c)   preparation of specifications and supervision of supply, erection
and testing of high head Francis turbines, and generators of
comparable size to those planned;
(d)   management of large projects involving international bidding and
utilizing modern construction planning techniques.



-122-
Annex 3.8
Page 3 of 3
6.          The consultants will nominate in their proposals specialists in
the fields covered by para 4 above. One of the specialists will be nominated
as a coordinator of consultant input over the course of the project
continuously liaising with the Department and advising where specialist
assistance will be required. It is not anticipated that the assignment of the
coordinator would need to be full time over the course of the project, but
extended assignments might be expected during critical stages. The timing and
duration of the assignments of specialists would be related to the execution
of particular project activities. The consultants input would be expected to
be more intense during the early stages of the project and during the early
stages of construction of critical elements.
7.          Specialists in other areas will be deployed at the request of, or
as approved, by the Department.
8.          Although the large majority of the services under this contract
are expected to be provided in India, specialized services may be provided
from headquarters offices, where it is more efficient to do so, for example
where laboratory or computer facilities are not locally available, and
considered to be necessary by the Department.
9.    The scope of work of the consultant will include training of the
Department's personnel in state of the art techniques in the work areas
covered by para 4. The consultants should detail in their proposal
recommended methods for achieving the required transfer of technology. These
may include, in addition to the "on the job" training associated with the
current assignment, secondment of Department staff to design offices and work
sites, visits to work sites and manufacturing facilities, and formal training
where appropriate.
10.         The overall consultant months expected to be required for the
services including miscellaneous advice covered by para 7 above is about 100.
The actual input would however be dependant on the requirements of the
Department as determined during the course of the project.
11.         Taking into account the objectives outlined above, the consultants
shall prepare proposals, detailing their methodology and approach to the
assignment, together with assignment schedules and consultant month estimates
relating to the specific aspects where advice and assistance will be required
as identified above.



-123-
Annex 3.9
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT'
Suggested Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services for Dam Repair Work
1.          The Maharashtra Irrigation Department is currently constructing
the Koyna IV hydroelectric power plant which is supplied from the reservoir of
the existing Koyna Dam. Since the dam is an essential component of all stages
of the Koyna development, the Department intends to carry out repair works to
it, to ensure a design life consistent with that of the newly constructed
elements of the development.
2.         The Koyna Dam, which was completed in 1961 is of rubble masonry
construction and has a maximum height above foundation level of 85 m. The dam
suffered damage during the strong earthquake of December 11, 1967 which had a
magnitude of about 6.5.  Strong vibrations were experienced  throughout the
structure resulting in some cracking. Seismic activity of a more minor nature
has continued since the major tremor. Remedial measures immediately following
the earthquake included epoxy grouting of visible cracks, drilling of internal
drainage holes and strengthening of seven high monoliths with vertical
prestressed cables anchored well into the body of the dam. Subsequently,
buttresses were constructed downstream of the non- overflow monoliths with a
construction procedure aimed at achieving a full structural connection between
the new and old constructions. Monitoring of instrumentation since the
original tremor, and static and dynamic analyses of the revised section
indicate no cause for concern from the structural viewpoint. Howevor the rate
of leakage through the dam which increased sharply at the time of the
earthquake has continued to increase since that time, with identifiable
discrete increases in rate apparently unrelated to seismic activity.
Currently the total leakage rate through the dam is about 70 l/s. The great
majority of leakage flows from into the ups-ream drainage gallery through
block joints and is generally considered to result from failure of copper
waterstops at joints between sections or with the surrounding concrete.
Several attempts to seal the block joints have been made with no significant
success, possibly because work on the upstream face has been confined to that
area above minimum operating level of the reservoir.
3.          The Department intends to employ consultants highly specialists in
repair of concrete dams especially in the area of underwater treatment to
carry out the following work:
Consultancy services would be retained following recommendation of
the DRP. The panel may amend this proposal upon completion of its
review (para 3.08).



-124-
Page 2 of 2
(a)   A thorough review of the existing records of leakage and other
instrumentation together with previous compilations and analyses
from tChxem, leading to the determination of requirements for
further investigations. These further investigations are expected
to include comprehensive underwater inspections of the upstream
face to allow the compilation of a complete inventory of cracks
and sources of inflow into and through the dam.
(b)   Preparation of specifications for further investigations.  The
Department is equipped to carry out investigations of a non-
specialized nature including diamond drilling, water pressure
testing etc. and may elect to carry out this work using its own
resources.
(c)   Supervision of additional investigations, compilation of results
and preparation of a report detailing recommendations for repair
and providing cost estimates for same. After agreement of the
Department on the scope of repair works, the consultant shall be
responsible for the preparation of bid documents for repair works,
calling of international competitive bids and evaluation of the
bids, award of the contract and supervision of the repair works.
4.          Investigations since the major earthquake have determined that the
dam is structurally adequate in accordance with modern earthquake design
criteria. Consequently, the emphasis of required consultancy services has
been placed on minimization of leakage by treatment of the dam below water
level. However, the consultants should be mindful of structural implications
when reviewing investigation results and notify the Department of any result
which may have adverse structural implications. Where appropriate the
Consultant may suggest, or the Department may request, additional
investigations aimed at confirming structural adequacy.
5.          The Department will provide the Consultant with full access to
instrumentation results and other data relating to the proposed services.



-125-
Annex 3.10
Page 1 of 2
INDI
&HO&RASHTRA POWER PROJECT
proposed Terms of Regerence for Studies of Load Dispatch
and Interstate Power Trading in the Western Region
Objective
1.       The overall objectives of the program of work described below are
to provide WREB and its members with: (i) regularly updated information on
the costs of operating generating plant in the Western Region; and (ii) the
data, models and other facilities to compute optimal patterns of load
dispatch for the Western Region for a variety of load and system
conditions, having regard to technical and contractual constraints on
interstate power exchanges. These schedules will provide WREB and its
members with a valuable tool for identifying further opportunities for
economic load dispatch, particularly during off-peak periods. A third
objective of the work program is to review present commercial arrangements
for interstate power exchanges. To meet these three objectives the work
program will comprise five main tasks, each of which is described below.
(a) DeveloR two models describing the marginal generating costs of
thermal and hydroelectric power stations. These models will
provide cost inputs to the generation scheduling model (c). The
model for thermal stations will describe the marginal costs of
each unit in terms of heat rate and coal quality, the costs of
coal and oil co.;sumed and marginal maintenance ^osts. The model
would be capable of quoting costs for incremental and decremental
generation from several different load conditions.  The model for
hydro stations would provide similar cost data on the basis of
marginal maintenance costs and the replacement value of firm
energy.
(b) Research the economic and additional technical data needed. This
task will provide data for the two generation cost models. WREB
already has much of the technical data needed, though not all of
it is collected centrally. A fair amount of work will be required
both to complete data collection and to relate technical and
economic data for individual plants.  For example, the models for
each generating set will need to include relationships between
coal quality, oil burn and plant efficiency. Similarly, data are
needed on off-load heat costs and on the division of maintenance
costs between fixed and variable components.
(c)  Develop a model to assist WREB in planning station disRatch.  At
present station dispatch is planned manually. The proposed model
would ease this computational burden and highlight opportunities
for economic load dispatch, particularly during off-peak periods.
The model would also enable scheduling to be undertaken more
frequently than currently possible. Thus, load dispatch will be



-126-                        Annex 3.10
Page 2 of 2
able to follow actual load conditions more closely and to react to
unforeseen occurrences (such ac a loss of generation) in the most
economic way. The model would use data on station marginal costs
from the models developed in (a) and would also make proper
allowances for physical and contractual constraints to economic
load dispatch.
(d)  Install systems to update the data bases of the generation costing
and station scheduling models. For the generation and station
scheduling models to be most useful to WREB, they will need to be
regulariy updated, probably more regularly than WREB presently
collects the technical and economic data involved. Existing data
collection arrangements therefore are likely to need strengthening
to increase the frequency of data collection and to arrange data
in ways that are needed for the models.
(e) Review SEBs' arrangements for exchanges of shares of NTPC and
NHPC generation. Currently, SEBs' exchange generation shares at
the average of the prices which they have paid to NTPC and NHPC
for the surplus generation which they deposit in the regional                  k
pool. With improved information on marginal generation costs,
SEBs will have an opportunity to adjust the commercial basis on
which they exchange central generation to reflect marginal
generation costs more closely. This will make trading more
equitable amongst SEBs. The review would recommend adjustments to
existing commercial arrangements for power exchanges that would
improve the financial and economic efficiency of the regional
power market.



-127-
Annex 3.11
INDIA
NAHARASHTA POWER PROJECT
Details to be included in Annual Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Plans
The following is the information required in regard to
resettlement as part of the annual work program to be furnished by MSEB to
the Bank (paras 3.12 and 3.17):
(i) Amount in ha of private land and government land to be acquired;
(ii)  Number of houses or other structures occupying the land to be
acquired, and the range of sizes and types;
(iii) Number of landowning families/persons affected by acquisition of
houses and/or land;
(iv)  Number of renter families/persons affected by acquisition of
houses and/or land;
(v) Number of squatter families/persons affected by acquisition of
houses and/or land;
(vi)  Socioeconomic profile of the project-affected families (types of
occupations, range of incomes, ethnic or religious
characteristics, educational levels, average family size,
presence/absence of livestock, etc);
(vii) Amount in ha of private land or government land to be allotted to
project-affected families for houseplots;
(viii) Public services to be replaced and provided to the newly allotted
houseplots;
(ix)  Other programs, as may be required, to enable the project-affected
families to rebuild and reestablish their production/employment
activities (i.e. building materials, transport, hauling,
resettlement allowance for subsistence while rebuilding, etc.);
and
(x) Cost estimates for period of the above disaggregated into project
land acquisition, replacement land acquisition, site development
for replacement land, resettlement/transfer activities and
rehabilitation/rebuilding activities.



MAfnaRHA POE PRoweCP
Kayo    ci sl~eIsctdc Pom Rknt
Organbof forDenand ConsuoNw
cl~~~~ ~ ~ lbmd#WO% 
S E
SE                                             (El- |  4   
|& Ti  ri&E |    | | l   Etkn~ aMIaM8  iL l
Amr SE                 Dmg De               ft 0mg                                 " a  hl
Abl*nS    >^n2  D*m4   21                               Cadon
PHl 1~&*K.  01 |
Mc~E3ac_                             T"hr -e               4
t                             L
WP     Ac T.km CO slkktn
Tv'_ a   W b   b     S *a                                       d %
^b   Cai.                                                    y Cai
U-swo    Towdfp m Gaiw.   d                                           CE CEdfnK_                                                 I
Abc-cMb"L &                    AEE mE
Caak    iIw w,earIk    dUMoiikV
Dhgn a    CeEDCO
Awbt Carw       kolJ2a



IV
I ii ii  i1~~VL
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
IIU
I~~~~~~~~6T



WihsI?     Sf81 1&C?IICI?T join
CEIIIUL P*RAITIIS
rcab 3e                                          1982/83  1913/84  1184/185  1915/86  1H86/8?  1        I/88  1l88/8I  118/     13/11  11 181/12  118/93  1m M9   11941ns
tDDi  IDatioD late                                  i.ii      i.2i      i% SS        ;.Zi   i.s i I..4  1..2              ii        i.n51  7.11  A.i          1%   .5F O
I, lalioa  actor                                0.691    0.753    O.807    0.IC7    6.930    1.000    1.100    1.171            1.269    1.348    1.442    1.536    1.631
Ceneratiol  (cob)                                 16,122      112   18 097   21,222   23 314   25,617   2276  21  245   32 667    348I5   36131    36161   4344
Station Comsum5tions
Total Ste. Consumption                             1, I4 :~             ,9       I.4        ,5        ,5       231       2 53      236 3                19       39        35
Irts         t                                     2,53       3,06    3,456   41    B    4,4         4,52 2362            Ii26      ilil It   4   i    i         11141 1i141
oToal Aevilable Energy                            18,5    19,872 20158   24,198   25,76    27,83    31,02    34,41    38,11    41,1   4469    44143   41,4
Losses                                          2738      2157      2113    3 535    3 749       398       4323      4961      548       5      6 649        635       69i4
Percent of It. Ig.2                              I.T       14.9      14.5      14.62      f 146    14.3  14I.46    1.46    1I.40    14.8    1.4A    14.46    14.43
Sales of Electricity (CIhI                        15,320   16 915   17,239   20  63   22,115   23,89    25,693   2t 51    32 625   35,614   31,74    31,761    41,U3
Percentage Increase of SaleS (2)                              10.42      1.92    19.92    '6.52        628.      7.51    14.82    13.62       9.22       S.9      121       3.S2
11.iate (Ps./lob)                                  41.11    45.92    47.22    51.09    69.34    72.37    75.34    13.46    32.8  tI lL        31663    111.Ih   122.64
Percent Inc. in It. late(2)                                   11.72      2.3      20.32    21.52       4.42      4.12      4.12      5,7       6.5      11I.32    16.1      13.2
Targetted late (Ps./EUhJ                           42.75    46.41    43.77    56.75    69.05    72.62    73.81    71.74    12.38    t3.631 16.71    111.16   121.15
Transfer of Cost of Import (1968 Isl.i)                                                                         0.61      6.59      1.57      1.51      6.56      6.56      3.56
Transfer of Cost of  neDeration19188 Ph/kIlk                                                                   31.35    31.21    29.41    21.24    30.61    33.62    33.36
n1
o C
0.F



UIIISIU  stm IIC!I 601
Nunai sunu STATE 31,ICTVITT BOARD
ACTUAL AID FO1UCAST  ICONI STHIM S
lln Ic 6lUll..
icalTear 1     dlig1982/83  1183/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/8   -78/l ol01l1/3  lilttol     1 /ISI                                      lo 1911/32  1132/13  1313/34  1191/35
hrch 31 ----                                     ---------- Audited .----------)1tooadit.1 ------------Florecst ---------------
lennkec
;;-   oi7-rj31tletrc1l1 ttrtttr  l6                    7f 71                          1        1,       it,       23,       21,        32,         ii7      1      5:
6,111     83    8,          it 1 1     5  II31!
her icon ~~~~~~~~~~I 0331,1  2,
0  0   650   940  ~~~~~~                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~833  1    ,3   1,5281  2,013 22
totrIa   o eores                                    71,073    8,715   10,517   14,631   17,256   19,530   22C 2,16                  3,121   31,444   43,315   4135  5u:916
Ge. of owr escl. Fuel                          483       466       351       128       213        341     314    41             531       836       '132      141       112
Fel Cost                                         2,167    3,032    3,201    4,686    5,331    6,135    1                8,147   10, 32    11,9384   14,615   14,398   16,3152
lusting Lease fent                                                                152       164       116       33                  33        331       338       324        324
hi Lease leat (LEASERIT from WORPRO file)                                                                     2541    466.1    421.1    427.1    421.1    421.1    311.1
urch ase of Power                                1,043    1,369    1,665    2416 2,19        52 3,1244 31,61    5,46              6,431     7,2 11,112 2,15              1    1
Rtepair$tl a fistuelc                                1538     614      M69        902       943    1,051  1    ,13 4 1   ,335    1,631    21312    2: ,135   1            3 , 34
hplo7ees Cost                                                 11 :I:
let lsco e &fort lstertst        1 s0      2,131    3,0069    26 3S 1        3 3,2   ,911      1  3,61 1      49    S,IU    4,5UI    4,UI            9,2U    II,SII
Ge'eral Administration l upesteo                    211       240       351       343       407       453       56        56        5s        616        61        76        515
Other E   Uease                                       0         0         0        78       368       113       124       13                  185        132       261       221
Total Working lapesses                              5,336    6,631    7,341   11,530   13,520   15,440   11,611   21,31    2412    23,362   32,6117   34,378   41,356
Cash Generated from Operations                      1,737    2,144    3,176    3,109    3,136    4,150    5,141    5,813    7,136    3,682   16,161   12,151   15,346
lotal Operafting hEpenses                           5,344    6,641    1,346   12,358   145 40   16,633   137    23,135   26,731   31,616   35,151   3!,51   45,421
Adi. ~~~or prey. yrs.               (1,80)         0       165       230       131        46          0         6         S         6         6         I         6
fiet In owetrelInt-erest                         1,09    2,131    3,006    2,051    2,529    2,111    3,654    4,161   5,114    6,434    7,6!4    3,268   11,566
lnterest for the Tear                               1,491    1,675    1,938 23        i    2,695    3,161    3,215    3,3 6           5       t'W           33      ,6        ,132
IIs: lnterest DrnsE Construction                  0         0         0       11        81         122       104    1,1        I: 136    ,32
LIrke       t   peaim                            1,491    1,675    1,338    1,543    1,665    2,130    231              2,1       ~       ---         26         ,5        ,
at.   argedl                                         318       456    1,068        508       644        731    1.372    1,338        :                  2,        32         '2
Add   Imltere#t for PreviousTYears                    468       437       541         0         0         0         0          0 -       i         6         1         6 .        S
Less: Deferred lzpemses                               523       662       706         0         0         0         0               0    I                   6         6         6
keferred lsterest                              49?       541       611         0          0         0         0         6         6         0         6         6          3 
1et Income After Def. Charges  (234)    (250)  232  s08  644  731    1,312    1,336    1,716    2,336    2,36 3
.  .Z  ..  ..  ... 



-. ..... ...... ...
Ib h 311111.
-u~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..  ..
Ihk   e ie1iits i1s1ezes                         3      1     2t          11       15v       1       11       11 M  11 M    1"A1   31%  M1 1M
Cusns3          es                            t22.3-----------------  ------------------11       . .............. . h         t ---------------------------
Finel Skb  tore
.fo Imtal                                   I T.33            21:1   UPI                                                                              6.23 U:  M    M    M ::X IRS 310
fIttn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,       113      iiI' el  5e lt   ' '
toJI.11 *                                   2211      2433.3312,       31.531    4.161   42.2   54.13   W.11   16.311  11.131 111
tw. ew. b urw
Total Cutest beets                3~~~~.613   4,61    J,IM  33    1,1 11.1      35 1257 12,611 14.2 5. 11   11.1    s  114 1341   2 5,11 3617   23.13
bl bets                                        13       43       54 S      i S              N        4       14       14       24       24       14 I
ka   bpellmnnUi let nt                           I  2            25 U1 Za  J                         I  n         n            D        P,  D 
Total b 1i nd3,615                                     ,5    33,33      2.3 4 3,25    6.3    63 , "33   1.1312  S. a  3.51 1u51.    11.3   1      1n52 266,131
::: :: :: :::::::::: ::: :: :-::::-:::::::-:.::_::::-:::---:::::::::- - -- - - -- - -- --- - -- - --:::::::: :-:::: -- -- - -- - -- ---::-.  -- --    -::- - --- -- - -- - --
cut bm
hot        rlbsl ees                           1      2.1                       2,141 a.426    2.1         4, 1.   2.         15    3S        4, S .
foraeulp( elect.                                  *        *        *                      41       2    i4. 
titil halt                                   2.6 US    23      1.63    1.63 . 2 .2       3.6ll,U  1422W   12,Ut   3-1271   12.IU  2U,4S   13.51   24.3
SiC 1...                                     1.145    ,42      2. 14   2          S.     11            1. 141 U. U.1             1              11        It
Ni L.a.                          21.441~~~~~--- ---  --      ----2  22,..    ....       -       1-1- --- ---      --       ....    ....      ---
foubl @U t5   n                              4.211    4.62    51436    .I'm    t.Wu   13,0W    22.iU   23,23 11 3.             .14    11.0111    21
~~~~~~~~~~::::                                             :::::: ::::      Z-::         ::      ::::- :::::::          :::::   :::      -::::_::::::    :::::::-   :- -::-.:::-.:=::-:
in       a *2              If     15       1         it       1.    1h( 12  aU2 111                        i
TweedG it        54n11e2.11381   34.1617   4th    51.05   CI33                           6.M 14     1 1  115  .i    313111   13.5    11.246  241.511  l3,63
otatl Lou Yen Lease                          23.1 23,52       3.3 31 ,323   3 11    41 t           1. 5 4.Ql t3I1 64.32   11t261   IS.      12Me 1  1 3 M 3 1
i  . .   ........I                                        a                                                                          1...
IC11-IbmbP               Ird                IS                                   2.!              i:I MS   1111   25. .2 1 3, J
.La.                                                                                                                                                _                         
ffi-                           dj, :3}|: ,.  ,.: ,.  {lii 25  :  2~5  1':  I                                                             3
r3      2 .63    1,312   4333    1          6       r,       1        6.4
totl-rest7 -iltumn                          262    3.313    471 . . 6 .4               3.2      a37.61"                            ii 23m    1ii;S211.  1.5   11.31
131*1311113Tenla"        331.61    34.31    3.2111    42.63   431.35 563 6,3 .133 1.205322 113024U31"5                                 .2   2312 214.197



mu
mii  mul a  _i
- -- - --- - - - -- -- - -^- -o- - -- -- - - --- - - -- -- - -- - - - -- - --  ... . .....
bid 31  ~~311 n  Cnm  .siai    -sn
*-u---- *-----------------------------h                                                                                                                    I
s...    luim                                                                                                                                           .
Itewt jit nit lEa4d 3 5.1..)                      "1                                                           . 3.15         11. 551 s  s;    ?,l    @  13.5    151   1,2
otal rnuut Fmluga  1una.                              2,Ss3    3.3    2.313    3.312    4.52    s2I,M         l   ,n        *,          M             1S.     n,m
fl.;CL. |          I          _                             3,191              112    iid       1:      1:       I'm 1:.11   i,            U.I *! *'t          V
hb. latetest .63.                                    123      US    1.1 1,               6       6       43        631    I,U1      1,3     2,?    1,    11,3
Ttatl Ieq let hueli                                   3,615   3,511    5315    4,611    6.53    5.35    6.45   32,326   12.63S  15.32   13.5    22,2   n1.m1
13111153w                                             s,n5 .12    6,ll   33   1    0 3.43    6.2   1I,4U   11,13    23S55   23.43   3.563   3.5    3,12   u3.5s
ht hmsiag ft         lag Capi13  ndl   t2.22    1.41    1                                         351    1.23    1,255   1.33    I,5   I, 32         1 4     3.42
t        ^, bI 53    2.1                                                       .3      325       5        233 1,2   5               I 1.445    3.323 m .343 it  ,2
16151 31113$                                          6.443    1.241   11.,1  33.25,   12,213   32,51   15,111   23,23U   24,3  5    I,  13,11  3.  .11   41.1    3M
MALImmfTM33m /-4    611413  335/    13K/I l j11M3   IIMu  INS/K  2363    U,113/   132/u  132/340  336/11511.6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------                                  - -------------------- -               ---   -  -  -  = - -- -- -- - ------------- - - -- - - -- - - -.
uNlunFal                                             1II lF/S  2.sn  U4CY   13n     ml 10    12   Inun  12U  l/SI  I                                           11Mf
::::::::::::         d---------------------- ----------ll-t l------  ---------------h - ----------------1-4-------3-13
Inwitat
Totl Ctl P    ts                                             3.42 52,41   5.t21   1,23           12,3    15,      4.    35.9   1111 2C  n4          3.121   111,112
Kkrlswastauat.~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     ..I -2  1  12  14  3
lmittCn                                           t mtlYtR.115ts Im1: 1:W 1:    2225 to  1  "7 1B 
Total Imweutauat Prop..    [xi3.411    3.44.    5.45                     5.123    1.345    3.34   13.43   14,323   15,63    11,13   21,43   3.1    114,33
toebl hIt Service                                     2,131   2,U13   2,251    3,l5I    3,652    3,IS    1,161    5,513    T,125 -,- -         --,--    --3 51,333
total lOU   EE 1fl       3SC1    35 5,53    5.3                        1.T13    5.1    16,3 2:            1 13.3    1,3 13     2    25,13    22.4       4 _3 11_ _
Shbt ler villeatla.
ridto t cs k    ablu                      144       2       113       i 1            (2 12     31      .1      3.U     1,       11                1:2il
TOTAL sun s tEE am wanxs5                               U1    1,345    3,N5   I,.i    2;11         43   1         1.53:   1L        221S3I S1,2 1M I:n l        ,U
Total e     Illetlie                                  6,41   7,243   11, 73  2  5.253   12,23 S    .3m    s 15.i13   22,31U   ----  23.3        ---1   41,1
SwtTesipletm                     - ------------ ------   ----------------------------------------
stom                                               416~~~~3 3    3    3                3         3 3              3        3 I)    I       xi
-aM---    - -                                                                           -        -    :::          -:      ----     ----    -::::



-134-                      Annex 4.4
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Financial Action Plan
1. Objectives
The objectiveq of the Financial Action P'lan aret
(1) To allocate the financial burden of HSEB's future capital
investment cost in a balanced manner between Consumers through future
electricity tariff adjustments, Maharashtra State Government through future
GOM loans, and MSEB through increased efforts to reduce costs and improve
productivity.
(2) To further improve MSEB's long-term financial viability
defined as its capability to meet its financial obligations from own
resources.
(3) For MSEB to contribute to resolve the emerging arrears issue
in the power sector.
2. Actions
MSEB will implement the following actions:
(1) MSEB will control working expenditures including personnel
expenditures and future recruitment, especially in the Distribution sector,
so that the total labour force increase will be no more than an average 2Z
per annum over the FY 1989190 to 1994/95 period. The labour force increase
should be justified.
(2) To improve MSEB's weak capital structure, GOM and MSEB will
furnish to the Bank by March 31, 1990, alternative financing terms for GOM
loans.
(3) GOM and MSEB will revise, by December 31, 1989, and furnish to
the Bank for comment the mode of calculation of the lease-rent for new
hydro power plants and revise it as necessary.
(4) MSEB will coordinate annual revisions to its five-year
investment plan with its global corporate financing plan, and ensure that
long-term financing requirements for capital investment and working capital
financing are consistent with MSEB's capacity to generate funds, and with
the long-term loans available, including GOM loans.  Coordination will be
carried out prior to December 31 of each year for the next five financial
years.
(5) MSEB will reduce payment delays to suppliers of fuel, power
and consumables, and expedite reconciliation procedures for disputed
amounts.



-135-
Annex 4.4
Page 2 of 2
S. Performmce Indicators
The timely implementation of the actions listed in para 2 above,
and any additional action deemed necessary by HSEB's management will help
MSEB achieve the following financial performance targets, which are part of
the Financial Action Plan.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Financial Years
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
NSEB's Contribution
to Capital Investment a/            11.0%    8.1%   11.1%   12.9%   19.0%   21.4%
Labor-force Average Annual Increase -------2%------------------------
Debt/Equity Ratio                   88/12   87/13   86/14   85/15   84/16   83/17
Other Consumers' Net Arrears
in Months of Sales t/                 1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2     1.2
a/ Defined as gross rash generation minus debt service paid, and working capital
requirement, divided by capital investment for the year, including IOC.
k/ Excluding disputed amounts, and amounts billed but not yet due.



-136-
Annex 4.5
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
ASSUMPIgONS FOLLOWED FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Price Escalationt   Local Inflationt 1988189   8S
1989/90   72
1990/91 onward 62
Foreign Inflation: 4Z
Exchange Rate (for investment program)t
US$1.00 -
1987/88     15.00 Rs.     1992/93       16.97 Rs.
1988/89     15.58 Rs.     1993/94       17.30 Rs.
1989/90     16.03 Rs.     1994/95       17.63 Rs.
1990/91     16.33 Rs.     1995/96       17.97 Rs.
1991/92     16.65 Rs.
Income LZatementst
REWVEUS
1.       Averaae Tariff.  A 52 adjustment in PY 1988/89, in accordance with
the most recent information. After PY 1988/89, required adjustments were
estimated as follows (i) a targetted average tariff was calculated, based
on projected generation, operating costs, depreciation, financial charges
and interest, and the necessary net income to achieve the targetted rate of
return and (ii) tariffs were adjusted for each category of consumer
separately, so that tariff structure is gradually improved, and the weighted
average of tariff increases for each category remains in line with the the
targetted average tariff.
2.       Other Revenues.  Includes meter rentals and revenues from other
sources than sales of electricity. It is projected to grow at the same pace
as sales of electricity.
3.       Electricity Duty.  Corresponds to an average tax of Ps. 4 per kWh
(actual level in FY 1987/88). Projected to increase in line with energy
sales in kWh.
4.       Subsidies and Grants.  Calculated as the amount necessary for MSEB
to earn a 9.5S return before interest on its capital base, defined as
average net fixed assets and estimated working capital required (estimated
arbitrarily as 1/6 of working expenses), financed from other resources than
equity or consumer deposits. The mode of calculation was agreed between
MSEB and GOM, and is covenanted under Bank Rural Electrification Projects.
5.        Other Income.  Includes interest received, and revenues from
miscellaneous transaction. It is projected to grow in line with local
inflation.



-137-                       Annex 4.5
Page 2 of 4
6.  Works on Force Account.  Represents the value capital investment
implemented by MSEB's own staff. It includes mainly investment in
distribution and sub-stations. It is projected to increase in line -ith
generation and local inflation. Corresponding consumption of production
factors is included in working expenses.
"PZNS'S
7.       Generation of Power.  Includes generation costs other thar. fuel
cost, lease rent, personnel and maintenance. Projected to increase in line
with generation and inflation.
8.       Fuel Cost.  includes coal, fuel oil, and natural gas cost for
thermal stations. Calculated on the basis of the generation plan for each
plant, and effective FY 1987/88 fuel consumption. For new plants,
consumption is based on engineering estimates. Future fuel cost estimates
per kWh for thermal generation at constant 1988 prices are as follows:
1988/89     30.95 Ps.      1992/93       30.68 Ps.
1989/90     30.21 Ps       1993/94       30.62 Ps.
1990/91     29.49 Ps.      1994/95       30.90 Ps.
1991/92     29.24 Ps.      1995/96       30.90 Ps.
9.       Lease Rent.  The lease rent is the rent paid by HSEB to GOMID for
operations of the hydro plants owned by GOHID. It is calculated on the
basis of a constant annuity equivalent to the construction cost at an 82
interest over 30 years.
10.      Purchase of Power.  Calculated on the basis of purchases from Tata,
NTPC, other States, and Atomic Energy Commission, at the present price for
each of these sources, escalated in line with local inflation. The average
cost of energy purchased at 1987/88 prices is as followst
1988/89     67 Ps.         1992/93     56 Ps.
1989/90     59 Ps          1993/94     56 Ps.
1990/91     57 Ps.         1994/95     56 Ps.
1991/92     57 Ps.         1995/96     56 Ps.
11.      Repair and Maintenance.  Estimated as .25 Rs. per million of gross
fixed assets in use.
12.      Employee Cost.  Includes all fringe benefits.  It is assumed that
the result of the Manpower Planning exercise will be that labor force will
increase by only 2.? p.a. over the next six years. Labor unit cost is
projected to increase in line with local inflation.
13.      General Administration.  Includes insurance, rents, transportation
and comm_mications. Projected co increase in line with local inflation.
14.      Other Expenses.  Includes interest on consumer deposits, etc.  It
is projected to increase in line with local inflation.
15.      Depreciation.  Depreciation is calculated in accordance with the
Electricity (Supply) Act on a linear basis, at a rate of 3.5? per annum.



-138-
Annex 4.5
Page 3 of 4
16.      Interest for the Year.  Includes interest on long term loans
calculated as follows for new loanst
PPC                    13?             8 Years, 1 grace
NABAD                   10           12 Years, 1 grace
LIC                     15Z           14 Years
Market Bonds         11.5S            15 Years maturity
REC                    11?            Variable
MSCB                    142            5 Years, 1 grace
UTI                     142            7 Years, 3 grace
For GOM loans, interest is 9?, with a moratorium on interest and principal
repayment of 6 years, while cumulative interest is accruing on deferred
interest and principal at a 9? rate and charged to operations. Repayment
period is 30 years, of which 6 years of moratorium. Interest for the year
are interest accru-d, and do not correspond to interest actually paid.
17.      Interest During Construction.  Includes the percentage of interest
accrued (but not necessarily payable) to be added to Works in Progress, and
to be capitalized when work is completed. The percentage is calculated in
accordance with the Electricity (Supply) Act provision, approximately as
the ratio of accumulated Works in Progress to Gross Fixed Assets financed
from other sources than Equity or Consumer Deposits. Projected Interest
During Construction are calculated based on MSEB's investment plan
(Annex 4.7), and investment financing plan (Annex 4.8).
18.      Interest for Previous Years.  Includes interest on GOM loans
payable, but not paid because of insufficient surplus, and deferred to the
next year. This was the case in FY 1982/83 and FY 1983/84, but is not
projected to recur in the future.
19.      Deferred Expenses.  Under the pre-1985 accounting system,
depreciation could be deferred whenever net result was insufficient. This
practice has been discontinued under the 1985 accounting system.
BALANCE SHET
20.      Capital Works in Progress.  Calculated as the balance between
additions to VIP for the year based on estimated project implementation
schedule, and transfer to Fixed Assets at the end of the fiscal year of
completed projects.
21.      Accounts Payable on Investment.  Projected as 0.5 months of
expenditures for the year on capital investment excluding Works on Force
Account. In the past, the corresponding figure was from 0.2 to 0.7 months.
22.      Accounts Payable on Operations.  Projected as 0.7 months of cash
operating expenses. FY 1987/88 level is 0.9 months. Reduction is
justified on the basis of expected improvement in MSEB's cash situation.
23.      Consumers Contributions.  Includes consumers guarantee deposits
and connection charges. Projected to remain at present level of 2.6 months
of sales of electricity (1.6 months for connection charges, and 1 month for
guarantee deposit).



-139-                      Annex 4.5
Page 4 of 4
24.      Other Short Term Liabilities.  Projected to increase in line with
local inflation.
25.      Fuel Stores.  Projected to remain at the present level of 3.3
months of fuel consumption.
26.      Capital Stores.  Projected to remain at the present level of 1
month of Repair and Maintenance expenditures.
27.      Sundry Debtors.  Projected to increase in line with local
inflation.
28.      Advances to Staff.  Projected to remain at the present level of
0.6 months of the wage bill.
29.      Commercial Receivables.  Commercial Receivables have been
increasing in the past from 2.2 months of sales in FY 1982/83 to 3.7 months
of sales in FY 1987/88, mainly because of the increase in Receivables from
Other States. MSEB has included in its financial targets the reduction of
commercial receivables to 2.5 months of sales by FY 1990/91.
30.      Other Receivables.  Projected to increase in line with local
inflation.
31.      Long Term Loans.  New long term loans were calculated as follows:
PFC                        300 millions annually
NABAD                      150 millions annually
LIC                        +15? over previous year's borruwings;
200 millions in 1989
Bonds                     +10? over previous year's borrowings,
plus repayment
REC Plan                   +10? over previous year's borrowings;
100 millions in 1989
REC Non-Plan               400 millions annually
REC Associated Banks       800 millions annually
Other Loans, IDBI          +102 over previous year's borrowings;
150 millions in 1989
Other +lOZ over previous year's
borrowings; 500 millions in 1989
GOM                        Balance between Investment Program for
the year at 1989 prices estimated
working capital requirement, and
MSEB's cash flow sfter debt service,
plus Plan loans received during the
year.



EaUUSIm   Sl7  ILIMICIT  RoARD
FIUiICIUL IoIQTO
(Til MING NIRCI 31)
Fiscal Tear ending                              1982/83  1983/84  1914/85  1985/16  1986/187  1987/88  1911/19  1989/10  1150/91  1991/92  1132/93  113/94  1994/95
larch 31                                        -     - -------udited ------------------J ) ,-dit.[------------------------ Forecast ---------------------------I
Rate of Return (601 calculation)                    0.02    -1.5I       1.3n      2.41     2.9n      2.9       2.92      2.92      3.02      3.52     3.52      4.02      4.02
late of Return (let Int./let  . Ass., list.)    10.72    11.42    13.6C           8.81     9.3S      9.6$    16.1       9.6S      9.32     9.41    1.02    10.52 S       8.22
late of Return (let Inc./let F.  s. R.et)           9. 9     10.6S    12.02      6.22      6.4       6.12      6.32      5.72      5.62      5.32     6.12      6.32      6.32
Cortr. to Ilvest (after Dbt Seor. A lork. C         1.52    13 .5      12.52     9.5S    18.71       0.52    32.92    11.0%        3.12    li.1S    12.9       11.02    21.U4
lork!SX  Ratio                                     0.75      0.76      0.70      0.79     0.        0.79      0.17      0.79      0 .77      .76     0.75      1.73      1.72
Debt to lqitj Batio                                8.6       8.2       7.5     32.2      16.6      1'.5       I8   t     .5       6.0      6.        5.6       5.3       4.9
Debt Service Coverage (Cash  aIhls)                2.03      1.48      1.73     2.01      1.18      1.05      1.24      1.65      1.18      1.29     1.34      1.43      1.65
Debt Service Coverage (Accrual belst)              0.93      0.98      1.30      1.38     1.22      1.14      1.33      1.22      1.29      1.21     1.25      1.26      1.36
Current Patio (C. lsset/ C. Liabilities)           1.11      1.18      1.21      1.23     1.16      1.20      1.13      1.01      1.08      1.12      1.16     1.11      1.21



-141-
Annex 4.7
MARARASHTRA POWER PROJECT                                                P    1 of 2
MSEB's Investment Plan
(in million current Rs.)
Total            Esp.till   : -        --------------F        ECAS T- -----            --
Proj.Cast              19n      1999      190       1991     1992     1993      1994     1993
1.6enerat:-    TherealMUIC)
Pati V                                   1990      2472.0             1435.4    142.0    298.9    345.4        1.0       0,0      0.0       0.0
ih4onrh%da 1-11                          90-91      MM39.              2524.0   1726.0   1145.4   1041.2    380.3        0.0       0.0       . 0
Sub-Total                                          9310.9              4179.4   1900.0   1454.3   1404.a    380.3        0.0      0.0'      0.0
2.6 enratin - Thereal(Planned)
Cmanirauqr V                             90-91     4122.4              1452.5    972.0  3U97.9        0.0       0.0    - 0.0       0.0      0.0
Chuidraor VI                             91-92      4432.3                0.0      0.0       0.0   2494.9  1l18.4    769.1         0.0      0.0
Chnidrapur iIl                           95-94      M974.3                0.0      0.0       0.0    942.4    485.4   1775.5   273. 9   Al94.0
Ursa Us Turbinr Neat Recover             92-93      1948.4                0.0     54.0    299.9    735.0    584.3    204.5         0.0      0.0
Uran lSt Turbine Heat ARcover            94-94      1197.                 0.0      0.0       0.0    220.5   350.4   4U5.5    131.3           ).0
Kheperkiwde III-IV                       94-95      5924.9                0.0    109.0    349.6   1391.5   2004.1   1251.1    443.9    534.3
Parit VI I Vil                           96-97      4013.5                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    719.0   1585.5   2294.1   1425.8
UjCnz I 4 11                             97-98      7238.9                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   1720.4   1453.9   4059.4
lbastanl  3e                             .2000      3944.1                0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0 0      0.0       0.0   3944.1
IUrn StI?  It                            96-97         0.0                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
O^hhol I te V                            i2000         0.0                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
U ard I & If                             97-98      2946.4                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    918.4   2028.2
Thakurl&                                 99-99         0.0                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
AAA                                           91       0.0                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Du8                                           94       0.,   0.0                    0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
=C                                           95       0.0                0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
BDD                                            9e      0.0                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
En                                             97      0.0                0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
FFF                                            99      0.0                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Suba-rtal                                          47497.5             1452.5   1134.0   435e.4   5904.2   '5t3.1   7903.3   7995.4  13527.9
3.5toration-HydroaUlC and Plan.) Lease Rent
Dhira                                    1998                 100.70   100.70   100.70   100.70   100.70   100.70   100.70   100.70   100.70
PR^ana                                    198        S         19.54    19.34    18.54    19.54    18.54    19.54    18.54    19.54    18.34
Dhatst                                   1990                             13.9     13.8      13.9     13.9      13.9     13.9      13.8     13.9
PerehiPench 1-11             ;909                              40.50    40.50    40.30    40.50    40.30    60.50    40.30    40.50    o0.0O
Khadakeasala                             1990                            22.0      22.0      22.0     22.0      22.0     22.0      22.0     22.0
UjanL                                    1990                             29.0     29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0     29.0
Khaner                                   1990                              3.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      3.0
Oho               .                      I"                                4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0       4.0      4,0      4.0
TerwIn                                   19l0                                       0.4      0.4       0.t       0.4      0.6       0.4      0.4
9anik Dos                                199                                                  7.0      7.0       7.0       7.0      7.0       7.0
lowbne                                   1991                                                 4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0      .0
Surva                                     1991                                                8.0       8.0      0.0       9.0      8.0       9.0
darn                                     1991                                                92.0     92.0        .0     92.0      92.0      92.0
Shar.orsars 11                            1992                                               33.0      33.0     *S'0      33.0     33.0      33.0
Duchi Sang&                              1992                              0.0                        27.0      27.0      27.0     27.0      27.0
ihat;ar                                  97-9S                                                                                              190.0
*oVnA IV                                 9394                                                                                               Z94.0
sub-Total Leise Rent                                                     253.5    254.1    400.1    427.1    427.1    427.1    .27.1    ;91.1



-142-                                           Annex 4.7
Page 2 of 2
tOTi. 6EI(NERTION (Ez sud%09 LOchS  Rent)       51.4               W31.9  3024.0  5810.9  7311.0  5893.4   603.5   795.   13527.9
;.?riasision WU/C and Planned)
400 mV Line                            91-95     3154.0               0.0      0.0      0.0   250.3   742.7   944.    834.5   353.8
220 KY Line                            91-9S     2433.4               0.0      0.0      0.0   216.1   572.4   721.4   643.5   272.8
32 KY Lineo                          t2-95       88 7.               0.0      0.0      0.0     76.1   206.1   265.6   234.4    99.4
400 KY Substat:ons                     *1-9S     1769.1               0.0      O.0      0.0    157.0   416.3   529.5   467.7   198.4
:I0 lV Substation%                      1-95     3523.2               0.0      0.0      0.0    312.8   829.0   1054.7   931.7    95.0
1;2 KY Subitati:Is                      j@-5     :o9.i                0.0      .0       0.0   223.2     04.7   769.2   o79.4    :8.1
JVOC                                   1-95      3181.7               0.0      1.,      0.0      0.0      1.0   1939.8  4934.4  107.5
jI                                     89-'0    2300.9                0.0    972.0   13:8.9      0.0      3.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
!I                                    1997         0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
.11                                    1998         0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      3.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
AK                                     1999         0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      3.0
LI.  2Q00    0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0.0
Sub- otal                                      '24821.2               0.0   972.0  1328.9   1273.2  3374.1  6231.9  8725.8  2915.2
3TAL !RANS.                                    24821.2               0.0   972.0  1328.9   1273.2  3374.1  6231.9  6725.8  ;915.2
5.Distrzbution :Ui nd Piann.d)
AA                                        1989    486.0               0.J   486.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
i8 s90    554.7                                                       0.0      0.0    554.7       ).0      0.0      0.0      0.0      3.O
:C                                        "I"    661.S               3.0      0.0 O            Wu.u  1.   0.0      0.0     O.r       ,J.
00                                        1992    649.2               0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0   449.2       0.0      0.0      0.0
EE                                        1993    688.2               0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   688.2       0.0      0.0
FF                                        1994    729.5               0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   729.5       0.0
66                                        1995    773.2               0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       .0      0.0      0.0   '73.2
MH                                        1996      0.0                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
(I                                        1997      0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
JJ                                        1998      0.0                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
iK                                        .999      0.0                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      C.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
LL                                        2000      0.0                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0. 0     0.0
Sub Total                                        4542.2                0.0    486.0    554.7   641.5   649.2   &68.2   729.5   773.2
TOTAL S'SMTTIQS 4~0 DISTRIBUT!NI                4512.22               0.00  4*o.00   554.49   661.47   649.22   688.17   ?29.46   773.23
S.Codoositt Poaer Project
A'PA                                                 0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
al                                                   0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
cc                                                   0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
00                                                   0.0               0.0      '.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      (.i 0     el A      0.0
EE                                                  0.0                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.       0.0       0.O a    3.0
.US-tOtAL CJUP. PR6J.                                0.C               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
7.0ther Uarts                                        731.3               0.0    86.4      92.4     98.0   103.9    110.1   116.7   123.7
M.Rural Electr:fication                             9604.8               0.0   2592.0   1005.4   1065.7  1129.4  1197.4   1269.3  1345.4
... ....- -   ............-----------.---..-------------------- -   -- --- -   -   ---  -   -- - -  -- - -   --- -  -   ---- -   -- - -   --------..................... -  . ---  . - ----- -    ---------.......................  ----   --.-   ---.   ----   ---
.rA0L            - ESC. COST                      96697.8             S631.9  7160.4  8792.4  10409.4  11150.3  16031.1  1836.4  18685.5
,JTL INVESTMENT                                   96697.8            5631.9   7160.4  8792.4  10409.4  11150.3  14031.1  1886.3  ;3685.5
Esp. till1
1985     i9e6     197      1988     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993     1994     1995
ieqerat:on                                                            5631.9   3024.0  5810.9  7311.0  5893.4  7803.5  7995.4  13527.9
0.0    972.0   1328.9   1273.2  3374.1  6231.9  8725.8  2915.2
: o-Sta:.;ns &   st.sr'uut.on                                          0.0    494.0    554.1   461.5   649.2   468.2   729.5   773.2
~.E.iorzs                                                              0.0   2592.0   1005.4   1045.7  1129.6   1197.4  !269.3  !345.4
t er dcrks                                                              0.0     84.4      92.4     98.0   103.9    110.1    16.7   123.7
:a:csl!e P-:;e::s                                                        0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
5X2T     usia    :3s:    san&       usia    luau       9311     asus    :---z    uu3       182
:tal  lvetumnt :Prqraa                   4337.0  4675.0   4938.0  5631.9   7160.4  8792.4  10409.4  11150.3  16031.1  18836.8  18685.5
Source: MSEB  -  revised  by  Bank mission.



llDIU
UAIAlASITD StATE 3LIC11ICIT WOU D
FIIAICIH Of IIYISTIlU
(TUI 0IDIG RhICM 31)
(Is Is NlWlion)
1982/83  1983/14  1984/85  195/I6  1986/81  1987/88  9I8t/I9  1989/90  1991/191  1111/li  1112/13  1113/14  1114/15
A-----------------Audited -------- ------  hudit. ------------------------ lorecast -----------------------
Iatte mnt Prograt
lncrease Advuces to Suppliers 11.3)               9        13       30      (174)       I         0        0        1         1        6         1         1        1
luientueNt in IIP (enld IDC)                  3,835    4,117    4,292    4,669    4,937    6,241    4,566    8,339   12,1J7   13,395   14,546   11,261   23,421
Total lovestuent Program                        3,835    4,117    4,292    4,669    I,937    6,240    4,568    3,331   12,813   13,315   14,546   19,261   23,420
Soerces of Foods
lutenal generatiom                            1,737    2,144    3,116    3,109    3,736    4,150    5,141    5,I1    7,1I         1,162   16,161   12,15t   15,141
Cooner Costribution (Iquity)                    629       106      125       26t      520       711      22        5114     533       IN       783       531    1,125
Grats                                             0         0        0         0        0         0        I         S        6         S        S         I        S
Sub-Total                                   2,366    2,250    3,301    3,317    4,257    4,360    5,423    6,332    1,121    1,171   11,551   13,314   11,045
LeussDebt Serice Paid                              654    1,451    1,638    1,550    3,155    3,836    4,168    5,311    6,117    7,l16    1,166    3,11          9,616
let Increase Worklin  Cap.                  (5371      137      803    1,115      (343)      181     (521)    (444)      135      584       133      2N1    1,248
Total Internal letources Isl                    2,P48       662      661       112    1,444       143    1,784    1,428    1,511    2,177    2,661    4,115    6,141
Loas: Open larket                                 382       443      545       613      823      7196      t61    1,112       614       195     1t5    1,113    1,1U1
LIC                                        125        93      110       121      133      146       260      231       265      364       356      412       413
BIC PlIa                                   627       627      627      621       627      627       721      131       743      166       713      133       164
IDBI Plan                                  150       150      15      150       150      150       150      165       132      201       220      242       261
Total Loans                                      1,284    1,316    1,432    1,510    1,732    1,719    1,953    2,144    2,613        2,159    2,327    2.515    2,724
TOTAL IIIIICIIG IAVALABLE                       3,332    1.980    2.092    2,222    3,176    2,461    3,731    3,572    3,521    4,336    4.186    6,710    6.165
CainIated 60  JIUAICIIIG(!nv. in 1986 Rs.;       1,980    1,833    1,219    2,101    1,323    2,119    1,352    5,063    7,340    7,163    7,116  13,645   il1,12
ecl. IDC and fork. Cap.)
Proposed CON financing                          1,980    1,833    1,219    2,109    1,323    2,119           0    4,100    8,006    6,500    1,06    12,80    14,611
:: -:::::::.::
::::::::::::::::::::1::::::::::::::'::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::   :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  :: 



IDIS
1lh3SYlt6 511 3t iLICT3 BICIOIID9
un1   CIPITAL SC       LI
(TiMl MIlN HiR  31S
(is b lillillI
1982/83  1983/84  2984/85  1915186  19i6/17  1W17AR 11I8i(8 itS11/I   138i9I  13991/2  1332/93  1313/34  2134(95
-----------------i dited --- --------- ------usudit.I ----------------------- forecast ---------------------------
Icconts Paaable/lauestmeut
Investment Progras                           3,883.1  4,156.0  4,337.4  4,675.5  4,936.3  6,240.1  T,AR1.4  1,344.1 13,152.5 14.524.4 15,7412. 21,537. 24,773.4
to of months                                     0.3       0.2       0.6      0-8       0.7       O.1       0.5      0.5       l.5       0.5      0.5       O.5       8.5
Accounts Papable/lavest.                        92.8      73.7      11.2    300.3    283.0    269.4    3".1   4U3.4    567.1    627.1    678.1   r86.7  1, M6.5
Alecoonts Psaable/Operat1ous
Cost of Operations                           5,336.0  6,631.0  7,341.0 11,530.0 13,519.9 15,440.2 17,623.4 21,366.4 24,624.5 26,361.8 32,617.2 34,t77.7 41,095.6
go of mouths                                      1.2      2.1       2.2       1.0      0.9       0.7      0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7      1.7       0.7       1.7
Accounts Patable/Op.                           521.5   906.4  1,315.8    953.0    967.5    315.1  1,044.3  1,266.3  1,45I .4  1,610.9  1,433.1  2,173.1  2,433.3
Cousnuer Contribotions (Iqeitt
levenue/Sules of Power                       6,770.0  8,304.0  8,578.0  1,9184.0 15,481.0 17,722.7 11,839.4 23.70t.4 27,707.8 3l,137.7 33,125.1 42,81.5 51,321.7
iln of mouths                                     1.1      1.1       1.2       1.1      1.3       1.6       1.6      1.6       1.6       1.6       1.6      1.        1.8
Consumer Deposits                              628.5    734.0    859.2  1.126.8  1,647.2  2.37.4  2,638.0  3,152.5  3,685.6  4,311.2  5,161.3  5,711.3  6,821.5
Consumer ContrIbutions
Revenue/Sules of Power                       6,770.0  1,304.0  8,578.0 11,9U4.0 15,481.0 17,722.7 19,833.4 23,701.4 27,707.8 32.937.7 38,125.1 42,161.5 51,221.7
to of mouths                                      1.2      1.1       1.3       1.1       1.0      1.6       1.       1.1       1.8       1.1       1.8      1.8       1.1
Consaser   posits                               649.0    760.7    S4t.9  1,082.3  1,293.7  1,538.6  1,71t.4  2,154.0  2,401.3  2,654.t  3,364.11 3,7I4.7  4,447.l
Other Short term Wlabilitle                     1,183.3  2,092.6  1,012.3  4,200.1  5,465.6  6,676.3  7,277.1  7,360.0  6,410.2  8,139.6  9,621.9 16,254.1 11,121.3                                4
fecalation factor                                 1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0      0.9       1.0       1.1      1.2       1.3       1.3       1.4      I.5       1.6
toel Stores
fuel Cost                                    2,167.0  3,032.0  3,201.0  4,666.0  5,337.0  6,334.1  7,1741.9  8, 14,.2 I,319.1 21,146.5 14,615.1 4l,t5.6 18,352.5
No of mautbs                                     3.0       3.0       3.1      3.3       3.8       3.3       3.3      3.3       3.3       3.3      3.3       3.3       3.3
Fuel Storee                                    539.0    152.6    126.8  1,302.4  1,678.7  1,131.6  2,123.0  2,460.5  2,831.0  3,296.3  3,854.1  4,036.3  5,346.3
Capital Stores
Repair and Iainteuauce                         538.0    614.0    606.0    902.0    943.0  1,058.2  1,134.5  1,334.3  1,681.2  2,101.7  2,375.2  2,752.2  3.493.7
go of loaths                                     3.4       1.6       1.0      0.0       0.0       8.8      1.8       1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.6
Capital Stores                                 150.3      80.6      59.5      0.0       0.0       9.3     34.5    111.2    140.1    175.1    197.9    221.3    291.1
Sundry Debtors
IsCalation factor                               1.10      1.00      1.00     1.00      0.93      1.80      1.03     1.16      1.26      1.35     1.44      1.54      1.64
Snudrp  ebtors                                   13.4     48.8      54.2  1,364.9  1,74.5  12,639.1  1,176.6  1,929.5  2,064.6  2,208.1  2,363.8  2,517.;  2,C61.1
Advasces to Staff
Implopees Cost                                 888.0    910.0  1,069.0  2,165.0  3.136.0  3,113.6  3,461.7  3,813.4  4,262 0  4,542.4  4,957.5  5,385.4  5,650.1
go of moutbs                                      1.1      2.5       1.3      0.5       0.5       0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6       0.6      0.6       8.6       0.6
advances to Staff                               62.1    114.7    125.9    125.8    135.1    257.5    175.1    192.9    210.5    221.6    251.3    272.4    295.9
Comercial leceivables
Revesue/Sales of Power                       6,770.0  8,304.0  8,578.0 11,984.0 15,461.0 17,722.7 11,839. 23,700.4 77,707.8 32,937.7 31,825.0 42,t66.5 51,328.7
So of months                                     2.2       2.4       2.5      2.9       3.0       3.1       3.0      2 .       2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5       2.5
Comercial leceivahles                        1,234.0  1,630.0  1,616.?  2,654.1  3,919.6  5,525.7  4,359.1  4,937.6  5,772.5  6,362.0  8,081.5  1,t2S.5 18,632.8
11 Subsidies Receivable
Opening Balance                                  0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    567.0    229.1         0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       1.1
1I Subsidies Due for the year                    0.0       0.0       0.0    567.0       0.0       0.0       0.8      0.8       0.0       0.       e.0       0.1       8.8
PR Subsidies Paid                                 0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    337.9    229.0         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      6.0       0.6       0. 'e
Closing mbince I1 Subsidies iteed,.               0.0      0.0       0.0    567.0    229.1        0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.2      0.1       0.1
Other Receivables
16clatlot  factor                               1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00      0.93      1.00      2.09     1.28      1.26      1.35     1.44      1.54      2.64
Otber Reveivables                            1.306.7  1,764.2  2,208.6  1.531.1  1.908.7  2,181.5  2,377.8  2,561.1  2,747.8  2,3140.2  3,146.0  3,350.5  J,518.3



lIol
IAI9ASMAl STAlI ILICTRICIY IOIID
Trusfers froe and to the Governmeat
ia Billion R8.)
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1586/87  1987188  1908/15  1189/9   1911  1s911/2  1512193  1333/14  1554115
Subsidies                                                          471     1,283      1,024          0         0       398        464       612        416          6         I          S
low Loans                                                        1,833     1,219     2,109      1,323     2,119           0    4,000      8,1006    8,500      lOSS1   12,500    14,805
Deferred Payments                                                  728       605     1,487        106        637       603        488       6I1     1,281      1,125      2,317     4,321
Total Received                                               3,032     3,113      4,620     2,028      2,756     1,007      4,152     3,303   10,258   18,321   14.117    18,021
CON loan Repayment                                                   0         0          0       196        239       279        32?       374        416       460        668       lei
Interest on CON loans                                           1,167      1,306     1,469      1,765     1,832      1,952     1,985      2,285     3,184      4,181     5,261    6,553
Taxes                                                                0         0        691       882        904    1,120      1,389      1.644     1,921    2,171        2,321    2,685
Total Paid                                                   1,167     1,306      2,160    2,843       2,976     3,351    3,701    4,402         5,521    6.681       6,251    3,347
Dalance                                                     1,865     1,807      2,460      (814)      (220)  (2,345)   1,251        4,966      4,137     4.112      6,666     8,083
50ile rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr 7 eeeeeeeeee121 ,210039 6 C21C  I
le oasrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr ,t3eeeeeeeee1,1 ,191,2 219  ,00110 ,509,H12H 1,0
DefrrrlPayens rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr 21eeeee 65 111 16 67 09111C9 12111,212,97 ,19 
7oa ecie rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr ,3 eeeee ,1 160202 ,561071,5 ,331,511,291,1 1,2 



RIAIIISITRI StATI IUMCIICIT  BOUD1
hit Costs of Sale. and Productivity
(to 1988 lsajUl)
1982/83  1983/81  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1967/68  1966/8 1968 11  1991/11  19111/2  1192/33  1193/14  1934/95
thermal Oeoeration (GCb)                12,244   13,425   13,721   17,221   19,683   22,393   22,958   25,158   21,766   30,414   31,175   31,175   36,316                1.15
Sales (CUb)                             15,320   16,915   17,239   20,663   22,015   23,899   25,698   29,501   32,625   35,640   37,7144   37,737   41,136               1.10
Price Index                               0.69     0.75      0.81      0.87     0.93      1.00      1.09      1.18      1.26      1.35     1.44      1.54      1.14       7.31
hlber of Consusero                       4.165    4.503    1.948    5.469    5.971          475    7.128    8.144    3.320    9.262   10.177   11.171   12.241            8.51
orktfotce                              89,04i    91,779   94,905   95,665   95,511   .8,894   98,832  100,809  102,825  104,161  116,979  161,118  111,361                2.05
Aerage Tariff (Ps./kWb)                     59       61        59        66        75        72       69        61        66        67        76       72        75       6.4U
Personnel                                0.083    0.071    0.077    0.154    0.153    0.130    0.124    0.110    0.101    0.0I5    1.611    1.013    0.137               -5.6n
Fuel                                     0.204    0.238    0.230    0.260    0.261    0.290    0.276    0.258    0.251    0.250    6.257    0.257    0.213               -1.31
Kaintenance                             0.051    0.048    0.050    0.050    0.046    0.044    0.040    0.038    0.041    0.044    0.044    l.647    0.652                 2.41
Power Purchases                         0.098    0.108    0.120    0.13'    0.144    0.136    0.131    0.156    0.156    0.157    0.165    1.164    0.1S1                 1.65
Otber Working Ixpenses                   0.066    0.055    0.051    0.039    0.056    0.046    0.057    0.054    0.049    0.045    0.042    0.041    0.648                0.6 .
Total Working lKp./klh               0.502    0.521    0.528    0.643    0.660    0.646    0.629    0.615    0.599    0.590    0.599    0.603    1.612                -0.8I
hpreciation                              0.050    0.053    0.051    0.046    0.050    0.050    0.052    0.050    0.051    0.055    0.056    0.062    0.065                3.95
Interest/Operations                     0.137    0.128    0.130    0.086    0.092    0.091    0.083    0,019    0.062    0.090    0.097    0.104    0.103                 2.51
Total Ownership cost/kWh            0.187    0.181    0.161    0.132    0.142    0.141    0.135    0.129    0.133    0.145    0.154    0.165    1.174                 3.05
lhscellaneous CoBts (revenues)          (0.928)  10.0371)  (0.139)  (0.148)  (0.087)  (0.078)  (0.104)  (0.100)  (0.100)  (0.094)  (0.014)  (0.06)  (1.035)              1.15
Total Cost/kWh                       0.660    0.665    0.569    0.627    0.716    0.709    0.659    0.644    0.633    0.642    0.610    0.682    3.,01                -o.2t
Sa1es/Inployee                          0.172    0.164    0.182    0.216    0.230    0.247    0.260    0.293    0.317    0.346    0.353    0.346    0.361                 5.95
Consumers/Imployee                       0.047    0.049    0.052    0.057    0.063    0.067    0.0718    0.084    0.186    0.6II    0.195    0.112    0.111               7.41
Fuel/hit Thermal Generation             0.255    0.300    0.289    0.312    0.292    0.310    0.309    0.302    0.215    0.232    0.307    0.306    0.319                 0.05
lalntenance/inIt Thermal Gen.           0.063    0.061    0.063    0.060    0.052    0.047    0.045    0.045    0.048    l.lS1    0.052    0.057    0.059                 3.25



-147-
Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 12
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.       India's power systems are organized into five regional networks:
Western, Eastern, Southern, Northern and North-Eastern. To capture
available economies of scale and to benefit from diversity in the timing of
states' peak demands, CEA plans power systems development at the regional
level. Because of this, it is appropriate to focus economic analysis on
the Western Region power system where the proposed project is located.
This regional network comprises the States of Maharashtra, Hadhya Pradesh
and Gujarat, and the Union Territories of Goa, Daman & Diu, and Dadra E
Nagar Haveli.
Electricity Demand in the Western Region
2.       The consumption of electricity in the Western Region over the
period 1981/82 through 1987/88, together with projected demands through
1999/2000 are summarized in Table 1. For the Region as a whole, the
maximum load met increased from 5,811 MW in 1981182 to 11,060 MW in
1987/88; growth averaging 11.4Z per annum. The amount of energy supplied
increased from 30,378 GWh to 62,082 GWh over the same period; growth
averaging 12.7Z per annum. Within the Region. Table 1 shows that maximum
load and energy supplied grew most quickly in Madhya Pradesh (13.92 and
15.6Z per annum respectively) and most slowly in Goa (6.1S and 7.7Z per
annum respectively). Maximum load in Haharashtra grew at 10.41 per annum
and energy supplied at 10.1 per annum. Industrial consumers account for
just under 601 of total energy consumption ir. the Region and agricultural
consumers for about 161 of consumption (Table 2). Domestic consumers
account for a further 14X and commercial consumers for an additional 61.
Comparing 1981/82 with 1987188, consumption growth has been strongest
amongst agricultural and domestic consumers (12.81 and 12.41 per annum
respectively). Industrial consumption grew at only 7.2? per annum and
commercial consumption at 8.11 per annum.
3.       CRA projects that by 199912000, total energy demand in the Western
Region will have increased to 163,328 GWh and the maximum power demand will
have increased to 31,987 MW (Table 1). Compared with the estimated demand
in 1988189 of 67,181 GWh and 12,956 MW, the forecast implies growth in
energy demand averaging 8.41 per annum and maximum load growth averaging
8.61 per annum. 1/ Total electricity consumption is forecast to increase
from 51,404 GWh to 129,865 GWh over the same period: growth averaging 8.81
per annum. 2/ Growth in consumption is expected to be lead by domestic
1/ The difference between demand and consumption reflects supply
constraints and technical losses.
2/ The difference between demand and consumption reflects supply
constraints and techr4cal losses.



-148-
Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 12
consumers (13.02 per annum), while demand growth in agriculture is expected
to ease to 8.61 per annum (Table 2).  Industrial demand is expected to
increase at 7.42 per annum and commercial demand at 7.7Z per annum. The
expected changes in the structure of demand growth will change sectoral
shares in consumption. By 1999/2000, the share of industry in total
consumption is expected to have declined to just under 5OZ, while the share
of domestic consumption is expected to have increased to nearly 22Z. The
share of agriculture Is expected to remain about 162, while that of
commerce is expected to decline to just under 52 of consumption (Table 2).
Even though generating capacity is projected to increase at 10.1? per
annum, Table 1 suggests that in 1995/96 (when Koyna IV would be
commissioned) the Western Region vill still face a shortage of generating
capacity of about 162.
4.       Between 1981/82 and 1985/86, India's elasticity of electricity
consumption to economic growth was approximately 1.6. In the Western
Region, this elasticity was approximately 2.1, reflecting the high share of
industry in the Region-: economic activity. Some reduction of th2 Region's
high elasticity is likely in view of changing sectoral patterns of
consumption (Table 2) and with the prospect of some improvement in end-ti1.2'
efficiencies. 3/ Even so, compared with GOI's targets for economic growth
of 6X per annum under the Eighth Plan and growth of about 5X per annum
thereafter, projected increases in electricity demand in the Western Region
of 8.4? per annum (Table 1) appear conservative. This suggests, therefore,
that there is little possibility that the additional capacity to be
provided in the Western Rsgion development program through 1995/96 will not
be utilized fully upon commissioning. The project analysis reported below
suggests further that, in the event that some adjustment of the program is
required, deferral of other projects would provide greater economies than
deferral of Koyna IV. Hence, there is little possibility that the
additional capacity to be provided through the Koyna IV project will not be
utilised fully upon commissioning.
Least-Cost Analysis
5.       CEA's planning of least-cost generation development in the Western
Region shows that extension of the existing Koyna hydroelectric station is
part of the least-cost plan. CEA's analyses also show that: (i) the
optimum installed capacity for Koyna IV is 1,000 MW; and (ii) benefits
would be maximized through the earliest feasible commissioning of the
project. CEA's techniques of analysis and the assumptions it has used
(including its projections of electricity demand) have been reviewed by the
Bank. In some important respects, CEA's planning is over-simplified, for
example planning is undertaken in financial rather than economic terms.
Because of this, CEA and the Bank have undertaken additional studies to
review: (i) the justification for the inclusion of Koyna IV in the least-
cost program; and (ii) the optimization of the station's capacity and
proposed date of commissioning. These studies are summarized below.
3/ Improvements are likely to be only modest as many markets lock
competitive pressures to reduce costs.



-149-
Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 12
Identifying the Least-Cost Program
6.       The present value of capital and operating costs of the Western
Region development program through 1997/98 including Koyna IV has been
compared (in economic terms) with the costs of programs including the
cheapest alternatives to the project. Three alternatives have been
considered, each specified so as to provide approximately the same peak
generating capacity as Koyna IV. 4/ Comparisons have been taken through
1997/98 to accommodate the implementation schedules of feasible
alternatives to Koyna IV. Comparisons are based on avoidable costs, that
is the costs associated with new projects, as the costs of projects under
implementation are common to each of the alternatives. Table 3 summarizes
results and shows that the program including Koyna IV offers economies of
approximately Rs 6,445 million (US$430 million) compared with programs
including the cheapest alternative projects. 5/ For Koyna IV to loose its
advantage over the cheapest alternative program, the costs of the project
would have to more than double, or system fuel costs would have to decrease
by 272 in real terms. Both these eventualities are considered very
unlikely. Hence the inclusion of Koyna IV in the least-cost generation
program is likely to be justified.
Optimizing Project Options
7.       CEA's optimization of the installed capacity of Koyna IV has been
reviewed by estimating the present value of total system costs (again in
economic terms) for projects with installed capacities of 500 KW, 750 MW
and 1000 MW. No larger options have been considered as the station's
generation then would be provided at too low a load factor for it to be
easily absorbed within the Western Region system. Comparability between
the three project alternatives has been ensured through adjusting the
background investment programs so that each has approximately the same peak
generating capacity. 6/ Table 4 gives the present value of total system
costs for the three capacity options and shows that the program including
Koyna IV with 100n MW installed is the cheapest option.  For a 750 MW
installation to be cheaper, system fuel costs would have to decrease by
about 7.9Z in real terms, or the capital costs of thermal plant relative to
hydro plant would have to decrease by about 8.2Z. Both eventualities are
considered very unlikely. This supports CEA's optimization of Koyna IV's
capacity at 1,000 MW.
41 Comparisons have allowed for the higher energy generation of thermal
alternatives to Koyna IV. As the Western Region is predominantly short
of power rather than energy (Table 1), the benefits of thic additional
generation accrue mostly in the form of fuel cost savings from
displacing more costly plant from operation.
5/ Full details of there comparisons, and the sensitivity analysis
reported in following paragraphs, are available in the Project File.
6/ Allowance has again been made for the higher energy generation of
supplementary thermal capacity.



-150-
Annex 5.1
Page 4 of 12
8.       CEA's optimization of the proposed date of commissioning of
Koyna IV has been reviewed through estimating the effect on the present
value of total system costs of delaying the station's commissioning (and
the start of construction) by one, two and three years.  To compensate for
these delays, the commissioning of other plant in the Western Reqion
program has been advanced correspondingly. Table 5 presents resuits and
shows that the earliest feasible commissioning of Koyna IV minimizes the
present value of total system costs. For a one-year delay in commissioning
Koyna IV to be economic, the fuel costs of thermal plant would have to
decline by about 4.6Z in real terms, or the capital costs of thermal plant
relative to hydro plant would have to decline by about 4.7Z. These
eventualities are again considered very unlikely; hence the proposed
commissioning date of 1994/96 is likely to be optimal.
Program and Project Analyses
9.       Benefits that will be derived from the components of the proposed
project cannot easily be separated from benefits that will be derived from
other investments in generation, transmission and distribution in the
Western Region. Because of this, it is appropriate to focus cost-benefit
analysis primarily on the Western Region development program as a whole,
having first established that the planned program is the least-cost option
available (para 6). For this purpose, analysis has focussed on the 1989/90
to 1996/97 time-slice of investments in the development program. This
period covers implementation and the first two years of operation of Koyna
IV and implementation of most other new generation projects that will be
started in the Western Region over the next couple of years. This analysis
is reported below.
10.      When the average level of retail power prices is below marginal
cost (as in India), it does not follow automatically that the selection of
a project into a least-cost program justifies the project in question as
economic, even if the program as a whole is shown to be economic. Demand
can be inflated through low prices and lead, consequently, to an investment
program which is larger than can be justified purely on economic grounds.
In these circumstances, an acceptable program rate of return can mask
uneconomic projects. When this is a possibility, it is important to
supplement analysis of the development program as a whole with analyses of
specific project components of interest to ensure their returns do not fall
below the opportunity cost of capital. Such an analysis has been attempted
for the Koyna IV project component.
Program and Project Costs
11.      Capital and operating and maintenance costs of the 1989/90 to
1997/98 time-slice of the Western Region development program are shown in
Table 6. Capital costs cover investments in generation, transmission and
distribution. Generation investments comprise the least-cost development
program for the Western Region prepared by CIA for the 1987 National Power
Plan, updated to reflect changes in cost estimates and implementation
schedules. Investments in transmission and distribution, which are not
planned integrally with generation, have been included in an amount
equivalent to 60S of investments in generation. This allowance has been



-15 1-
Annex 5.1
Page 5 of 12
derived from the historic relationship between generation investments and
investments in transmission and distribution in the Western Region and from
the costs of projects included in CEA's recently completed National
Transmission Plan. All capital costs have been converted to economic terms
by removing taxes and duties and by revaluing the local component of costs
using an SCF of 0.8.
12.      Capital and iperating and maintenance costs for the separate
project analysis of Koyna IV, including the costs of investments in
associated transmission and distribution, are shown in Table 7.
Transmission investments are the costs of reinforcing the lines which
connect the existing Koyna station to bulk supply delivery points.
Distribution investments related to Koyna IV cannot be identified
separately from other investments in distribution in the Western Region.
Thus, an allowance has been included in proportion to the small amount of
incremental energy that will be provided by Koyna IV (47 GWh), in the same
way as was done for the program analysis. Capital costs have been shadow-
priced in the same way as for the program analysis.
13.      Incremental operating and maintenance costs have been estimated as
proportions of the capital costs of the power stations to which they
relate. For coal-fired and gas-fired stations, annual operating and
maintenance costs are estimated at 2.5X of station capital costs. For
hydroelectric stations, operations and maintenance costs are estimated at
1.132 of capital costs per annum. For transmission and distribution, costs
are estimated at 1.02 of capital costs per annum. Transmission and
distribution losses are estimated to amount to 152 of gross generation.
14.      In estimating incremental system fuel costs associated with the
program time-slice, the avera;e fuel consumption of new coal-fired power
stations has been taken as 0.61 kg per kWh of coal and 15 ml per kWh of oil
(used for stabilizing combustion). The economic cost of minemouth coal has
been estimated at Rs 193 per tonne and the cost of transporting coal at Rs
0.41 per ton km. The economic cost of fuel oil used in power stations has
been estimated at Rs 3.36 per liter (including transport). The opportunity
cost of natural gas to the power sector has been assessed as Rs 1,920 per
thousand m3 and the specific consumption of new gas-fired plant has been
assumed to be 0.23 m3 per kWh (an average of the consumptions of combined-
cycle and gas turbine plant).
Program Benefits
15.      Benefits that will be derived from the Western Region development
program relate mainly to the incremental electricity consumption that the
expansion in supplies will facilitate. In addition, the program may yield
benefits through reducing the costs of meeting existing levels of supply.
For example, investments in transmission and distribution in part are aimed
at reinforcing existing facilities to reduce power losses. Similarly, new
generation projects sometimes are able to reduce system fuel consumption
during off-peak periods by displacing less efficient existing plant from
operation (para 6). The development program may also provide benefits
through reducing the frequency of supply interruptions and stabilizing
supply voltages and frequencies, or through avoiding deteriorations in the



-152-
Annex 5.1
Page 6 of 12
quality of supplies that otherwise would have occurred. However, the
persistent shortages of generating capacity expected in the Western Region
through 1997198 (Table 1) suggest that by far the greater part of
additional capacity to be added will be used to expand supplies. Because
of this, possible fuel cost savings and quality of supply improvements have
not been taken into account in either the program or project analyses.
16.      Economic benefits from the expansion of supplies facilitated by
the development program (and its constituent projects) will be distributed
to electricity consumers throughout the Western Region. Partly, the extent
of these benefits can be measured by the additional revenues associated
with the expansion in consumption. However, the benefits consumers derive
from incremental consumption will be at least equal and probably above what
thc-: are required to pay for additional supplies, otherwise consumption
would not increase. The extent of consumers' net benefits (which are
referred to as consumers' surplus) can be estimated as savings consumers
obtain through access to public electricity compared with the costs of
private supplies. The program and project analyses have estimated rates of
return first with benefits limited to incremen*al revenues and then again
with allowance made for consumers' surplus. estimated benefits of the
program time-slice are summarized in Table 6. Estimated benefits of the
Koyna IV project component are summarized in Table 7.
Incremental Revenues
17.      Average tariff levele in the Western Region over the last few
years and their relationships to estimated marginal costs are shown in
Table 8. The average tariff level in 1987/88 (weighted by consumption
share) is estimated to have been 78 paise per kWh, equivalent to about 74Z
of marginal costs. The structure of states' tariffs is broadly similar
throughout the Region. Principal features of tariffs are their complexity,
the deep cross-subsidy of low voltage consumers (and agriculture in
particular) by industry, and the absence of any distinction between the
costs of supplying energy during peak and off-peak periods. The average of
tariffs to industrial consumers is equivalent to approximately 1152 of
marginal cost, whereas the average of agricultural tariffs is about only
10? of marginal cost. Tariffs to commercial consumers average about 60Z of
marginal cost and those to domestic consumers about 25Z of marginal cost.
In real terms, the average tariff level is estimated to have increased
14.8S between 1984/85 and 1987/88 (an average real increase of 4.7Z per
annum). However, there have been marked variations within the Region: in
Haharashtra the real increase over this period was 29.72 (HSEB's tariff
increased 25.0? in real terms - para 2.16), whereas the real increase was
only 7.41 in Hadhya Pradesh, and 3.0S in Gujarat. Industrial consumers and
purchasers of bulk supplies have borne the brunt of increases. Between
1984/85 and 1987/88, real tariffs to large industrial consumers increased
17.0? and real tariffs to bulk purchasers increased 34.0Z (MSEB's consumers
faced increases of 31.3Z and 34.9? respectively). In contrast, over this
period, real prices to agricultural consumers (15.4? of consumption)
dropped by half.



-153-
Annex 5.1
Page 7 of 12
18.      Future changes in average tariff levels will be the result both of
increases in prices and changing sectoral shares in consumption. As load
is expected to grow relatively more quickly amongst low voltage consumers
(para 3), the increase in share of consumption at low voltage will exert a
downwards pressure on average tariff level. However, GOI's 32 minimum rate
of return target places states under increased pressure to accelerate
tariff reform. This is most likely to materialize through greater
attention to load management. Faster rates of real tariff increase are
less likely, both because of tho sharp political constraints involved and
because of the diminishing difference between tariffs to industrial
consumers and the costs of private generation (Table 9). Estimations of
benefits from the proposed project have assumed that average tariff levels
in the Western Region over the next few years will increase in real terms
at only half their rate of real increase since 1984/85, that is 2.32 per
annum (para 17). Under this assumption, the average tariff level in
1989/90 (the start of the investment time-slice) would be 87 paise per kWh, 7/
equivalent to approximately 861 of marginal cost. By 1995/96 (when
Koyna IV would be commissioned), the average would be equivalent to 100
paise per kWh in constant 1989/90 prices. Industrial tariffs then would be
about equal marginal cost. It has therefore been assumed that after
1995/96, the average level will remain constant in real terms. Applying an
SCF of 0.8, the corresponding rates of economic benefit are estimated to be
70 paise per kWh in 1989190 using to 80 paise per kWh in l995/96.
Consumer Surplus
19.      In addition to the amounts paid for public supply, it har been
assumed that half of consumers would be willing to pay the additional costs
they would incur in meeting their electricity needs through private
generation. This assumption implies that consumers have a price elasticity
of minus unity. In practice, at low levels of consumption (as in India),
consumers are likely to be considerably less sensitive to price. This
suggests that more than half of consumers would be willing to pay the costs
of private supply and hence that consumer surplus is likely to accrue at
more than half of the additional costs of autogeneration.
20.      Estimated costs of autogeneration are summarized in Table 9.
Costs have been estimated separately for large diesel generators (in the
range 200 kW to 400 kW) as used by medium and large industries, and for
small generators (of about 50 kW capacity) as used in workshops and
commercial undertakings. Assuming 302 machine utilization (which is
typical for private generating installations), the average cost of
autogeneration is estimated at 125 paise per kWh from a large mwchine and
149 paise per kWh from a small machines.
21.      For agricultural consumers, the costs of replacing public
electricity have been estimated as the additional cost of providing
irrigation from diesel pumps. Table 10 illustrates the estimation.
Assuming pumps are operated for 800 hours per year (which seems typical),
electricity would have to be priced at 238 paise per kWh for diesel and
electric pumping to cost the same.
7/ The Bank estimates that India's domestic inflation in 1988/89 will be
9.02.



-154-
Annex 5.1
Page 8 of 12
22.      Table 11 su mmaarizes estimation of the average rate of consumer
surplus in the Western Region. The estimation assumes that for domestic
consumers, public lighting and comoercial consumers, the relevant
comparator is the generating cost of a small diesel set. For public water
pumping, industry and transport, the relevant comparator is assumed to be
the generating cost of a large diesel set. For agriculture, the comparator
is assumed to be the zost of diesel irrigation pumping. Using 1987/88
data, 8/ the weighted average rate at which consumer surplus is assumed to
accrue is 38 paise per kWh. Inflating to 1989/90 prices 9/ gives an
average rate of consumer surplus of 41 paise per kWh. Adding this to
expected average tariff levels brings total estimated economic benefits to
111 paise per kWh in 1989/90 rising to 121 paise per kWh in 1995/96.
Project Benefits
23.      The benefits of the Koyna IV project relate to the additional
value of concentrating the station's generation into periods when system
demands are highest. Also, through the project, the Koyna power station
will be able to generate an additional 47 GWh from the existir,g reservoir
because of the more efficient turbines to be installed in Koyna IV. At
present, only about one-third of Koyna's generation of 2,085 GWh per annum
coincides with peak demand periods. The remaining 1,390 GWh are provided
during off-peak periods. The benefits of Koyna IV therefore will be to
move 1,390 GWh of generation from off-peak to peak periods and to provide
an additional 47 GWh.
Incremental Revenues
24.      At present, there would be no financial benefit to the
concentration of generation into peak periods as retail tariffs in the
Western Region do not distinguish between the costs of supplying energy
during peak and off-peak periods. However, there is a strong likelihood
that two-part tariffs will be introduced for large consumers over the next
few years; as regards Maharashtra, this is one of the principal objectives
of the pricing component of the proposed project (para. 2.17). The
financial benefits of Koyna IV then will be the difference between peak and
off-peak revenues on Koyna's off-peak generation which would be
concentrated into peak periods.
25.      Table 2 suggests that in 1995/96 (when Koyna IV would be fully
commissioned) domestic, commercial and irrigation consumers will account
for approximately 40? of total consumption. Assuming modest progress with
load management initiatives (para 2.17), it is reasonable to assume that
the contribution of these consumers to peak system demands by 1995/96 would
be no more than 30Z of total consumption. Remaining consumers (principally
industry, traction and other bulk power purchases) would account for about
70? of consumption during peak periods. These other consumers could all be
S/ The most recent year for which tariff data are available by consumer
category.
9/ The Bank estimates that India's domestic inflation will be 9.0Z in
1- I



-155-                       Annex 5.1
Page 9 of 12
supplied under two part tariffs. Hence, it is assumed that Koyna IV would
realize financial benefits on 702 of the generation moved to peak periods,
that in on approximately 975 GWh per annum and 848 GVh per annum net of
transmission and distribution losses.
26.      In 1987/88, tariffs to industry and other bulk purchasers averaged
96 paise per kWh (Table 11)   Real growth of 2.32 per annum (para 18) would
bring the tariff level to 12v paise per kWh in 1995196; close to the costs
of autogeneration. It is reasonable to assume that the average tariff
level for industry could not exceed the average cost of autogeneration.
Also, that the peak and off-peak rates of a two-part tariff would have to
be set in relation to the fixed and variable costs of autogeneration to
avoid uneconomic supply switching. 10/ Taking a large industrial generator
as a benchmark, and considering a daily peak of three hours duration
(typical for the Westein Region), the peak energy rate of a two-part tariff
for 1995/96 should not exceed 180 paise per kWh (Table 4). For an average
tariff level of 120 paise per kWh, the corresponding off-peak rate would be
80 paise per kWh. Concentrating Koyna's generation into periods of peak
demand therefore is assumed to yield incremental revenue of 100 paise per
kWh, or approximately Rs 848 million per annum on the generation moved into
peak periods. The economic value of this would be Rs 678 million per annum
(applying an SCF of 0.8).
27.      In addition to these benefits, Koyna IV will generate incremental
revenues on the 47 GWh per annum of additional generation the station will
provide. Net of transmission and distribution losses, the economic value
of this peak generation would be Rs 59 million per annum, bringing the
total value of incremental revenues to Rs 737 million per annum.
Consumer Surplus
28.      In addition to the incremental revenues the project will generate.
Koyna IV will provide additional benefits to consumers (consumer surplus)
through expanding supplies in peak periods, when consumers' willingness-to-
pay is highest. However, by 1995/96, the level of tariffs to indl:stry and
other large consumers would be close to the costs of autogeneration
(para 26). Because of this, the full benefits to these consumers largely
would be captured through incremental revenues. The additional consumer
surplus yielded by Koyna IV consequently would essentially be confined to
domestic, commercial and agricultural const3mers, that is to only
approximately 301 of the generation moved to peak periods (415 GWh,
para 25).
29.      By 1995/96, the (weighted) average tariff to domestic, commercial
and agricultural consumers would be 70 paise per kWh (assuming real
increases of 2.32 per annum, para 26). It is estimated that average
autogeneration costs to domestic and commercial consumers are 149 paise per
kWh and that diesel irrigation pumping costs the equivalent of 238 paise
per kWh (Table 10). Dividing these costs between peak and off-peak
10/ The higher peak rates are set, the smaller the size of private
generator that is made financially attractive.



156-
Annex 5.1
Page 10 of 12
periods, suggests peak autogeneration costs of 215 paise per kWh and diesel
pumping costs during periods of peak demand equivalent to 343 paise per
kWh. 11/ The average of these costs is 279 paise per kWh, suggesting a
rate of consumer surplus to low voltage consumers during peak demand
periods of 209 paise per kWh (i.e. 279-70 paise per kWh). To estimate the
additional consumer surplus attributable to Koyna IV, the surplus of 209
paise per kWh must be reduced by the surplus that would have accrued to the
415 GWh per annur or generation in question in the event of it continuing
to be supplied during off-peak periods. The variable costs of
autogeneration and diesel pumping (Tables 9 and 10) suggest a rate of
consumer surplus to low voltage consumers during off-peak periods of 60
paise per kWh (130-70 paise per kWh). It is again assumed that only half
of consumers would be prepared to pay the higher costs of autogeneration
and diesel pumping (para 19). Hence the average rate of consumer surplus
to low voltage consumers during off-peak periods is estimated to be
30 paise per kWh. This suggests that the additional consumer surplus Koyna
IV will yield to low voltage consumers will be about 180 paise per kWh
(i.e. 209-30 paise per kWh), equivalent to US Cents 12 per kWh.
30.      It must be remembered that this rate of surplus applies only to
consumption by low voltage consumers, and so to only 360 GWh of Koyna's
total net generation of 1815 GWh (2085 GWh divided by 1.15); that is to
only 302 of the two-thirds of Koyna's generation being concentrated into
peak periods (para 28). The total value of this surplus would be Rs 648
million per annum. The comparatively high rate of surplus is a reflection
that none of the benefits of Koyna IV to low voltage consumers are expected
to be captared through incremental revenues; it having been assumed that it
will not be practicable to introduce two-part tariffs for these consumers
(para 25).
Economic Rate of Return
Program Aralysis
31.      The estimated rates of return of the 1989/90 to 1997/98 time-slice
of the Western Region development program are:
(i) 7.2Z counting as program benefits only incremental revenues
generated from rrojects included in the time-slice; and
(ii) 14.0? when allowance is made for associated consumer surplus.
It must be noted that the above estimations are based only on the estimated
values of incremental consumption. In practice, the development program
will yield additional benefits through improving the quality of electricity
supplies to existing consumers (para 17).  With a 12Z discount factor, the
11/ Peak autogeneration and diesel pumping costs have been estimated as the
fixed costs of autogeneration and diesel pumping divided over peak
demand periods of 3 hours per day (para 26 and Tables 9 and 10) plus
variable operating costs.



-157-
Annex 5.1
Page il of 12
NPV of the time-slice (including the allowance for consumer surplus) is
estimated at Rs 12,294 millions (equivalent to US$820 millions).
32.      The analysis suggests that the program time-slice cannot be
justified purely on the basis of incremental revenues, but that the
economic viability of the program is sound, considering the associated
consumer surplus. As retail power tariffs in the Western Region on average
are well below marginal cost (para 16), 4t is not surprising that
incremental revenues alone do not yield returns comparable with the
opportunity cost of capital. Rather, the low return is more a reflection
of the distribution of net benefits of the program time-slice between power
utilities in the Western Region and their consumers. The above assumptions
regarding the rate at which consumer surplus accrues suggest that roughly
661 of benefits would be realised by power utilities and 34Z by electricity
consumers.
33.      Sensitivity analyses of the program time-slice are suummarized in
Tables 12 and 13. Adverse changes in program costs and/or the rates of
benefits amounting (in total) to more than 102 would reduce the rate of
return to less than 12Z. In these circumstances, some reconfiguration of
projects would be needed to ensure that the development program remained
economic. (Economic in the sense of earning a return in excess of the
opportunity cost of capital). Similarly, the sensitivity analyses show
that a delay in implementing projects included in the time-slice of more
than one year would also reduce economic returns to less than 122 and
require adjustment of the program. As the cost and benefit variations
which the program can withstand are relatively modest, it is not unlikely
that some adjustments of the program may be required as implementation
proceeds. The project analysis which follows demonstrates that the in such
an eventuality, Koyna IV would not be a preferred cand.idate for deferral.
It must be remembered, of course, that set against these adverse
sensitivities are equal likelihoods of more favorable outcomes.
Project Analysis
34.      The estimated rates of return of the Koyna IV component of the
proposed project are:
(i) 9.51 counting as benefits only incremental revenues; and
(ii) 18.32 when allowance is made for the associated consumer
surplus.
Estimations again are based on benefits confined to the value of
incremental consumption. With a 122 discount factor, the NPV of Koyna IV
is estimated at Rs 2,371 millions (equivalent to US$ 158 ;'illions).
35.      Sensitivity analyses of the project are summarized in Tables 14
and 15. The analyses suggest that returns yielded by Koyna IV are more
robust than those of the development program as a whole. For example,
including the allowance for consumer surplus, Koyna IV could absorb adverse
changes in costs and/or benefits of about 40? (in total) and the project



-158-
Annex 5.1
Page 12 of 12
would remain economic. Similarly, the analyses show that the project could
remain economic under implementation delays exceeding three years: how long
in practice would depend on the extent of associated cost increases.
These results suggest that, in the event that some adjustment of the
Western Region program became desirable, deferral of other projects in the
program would provide more relief than deferral of Koyna IV. Variations of
costs and benefits exceeding 40 are considered very unlikely. Similarly,
implementation delays exceeding three years are considered very unlikely.
Hence there is a strong likelihood that Koyna IV will prove economic.



INDIA
MAJARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Western Region: Actual and Proi cted Power and Enery Doemnds
Average                                                         Average
Actual               Growth                         Projected                         Growth
1981182 p/    1987/1W       1            1988/89     1994/95     1996/96     1999)2000      19882000
1. Peak Lea (MW)
GuJarat                       1,624         8,097         11.4         8,615       6,013        6,540        1,280          3.0
Madhya Pradesh                1,107         2,416         18.9         2,877       4,792        6,814        8,088          9.0
Maharashtra                   2,998         5,411         10.4         6,894       9,886       10,297       15,240          0.2
Gee, Dban and Diu         C                   121          6.1           149         284          267          872          8.7
Dadra and Nagar NavelI            2            14         83.3            21          *7           40          111         16.8                   I
Total                    5.811        11.060         11.4        12.9C6      19416        21.4C        a1.987 ?0.6
Geerating Capacity            5,311         0,786                      9,918      16,112       13,085       23,616         10.1
Deficit                   - P/         2.296                      8.048       8.804        J.420        U.871
2. Ear _r Reirewt (GWh)
Gujarat                       9,450        16,765         10.0        17,728      27,159       29,114       $3,449          7.8
Madhya Pradesh                6,892        14,074         15.0        15,848      27,014       29,607       42,721          9.8
Nahoraohtra                  17,135        80,641         10.1        88,489      58,640       C8,146       80,28C          3.8
Goe, Dbman and Diu              840           531          7.7           592       1,041        1,182        1,598          9.4
Dadra and Nagar Havell            6            71         43.9            79          184         200          230         12.2
Total                   30.78         62.082         12.7        67.181     109.083      118.199      168.820          8.4                 0
Geerating Capacity           80,83?        59,587                     68,407      108,422     118,471      168,823          1.9
Deficit                   - p/         2.54S                      8.774       6.610        4-72_ 0                                         U
p/ Data for 1961/82 reflect consumption rather than power and energy demands. No data are aovilable on the
*xtent of unmet load or the amount of unserved energy.
Source:  Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, Decembr 1987, plue Bank estimates.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Western Realon: Eloctrielty Consumption By Consumer Category
Actual                     Average Growth                   Projections                 Avorag  Orowth
1981/82             1987/98       1 981/88                     1988/89    1 9       m92000            I!f2000
(Mi)      (X)       (C"h)             (X)      P. p..)         (GMh)     M^         (onJ       X)         (X P. 8.
Consumer Category
1. Domest ic             8,257    11.2       6,579    18.9             12.4             7,896    14.4       28,294    21.8           13.0
2. Commercial            1,639     5.6       2,815      6.6             8.1             2,812      5.5       6,890     4.9            7.7
S. Industrial:
LV and WV          2,6e0      8.9       4,026      6.6             7.6             4,352     8.6       10,$88     8.0            8.2
HV                15,489    58.1       28,884    49.8              7.1            26,064    48.8       64,820    41.3            7.8
Total Industrial    18,098    62.1       27,409    67.7              7.2            29,416    57.2       64,708    49.8            7.4
4. Public Lighting         308     1.0          409     1.0             7.6               607      1.0       1,220     0.9            8.8
5. Traction              1,088     3.7       1,196      2.6             1.9             1,292      2.6       4,216     3.2           11.4
6. Agriculture           8,787    13.0       7,800    16.4             12.8             8,467    16.5       20,900    16.1            6.6
7. Public Water            788     2.5       1,287      2.6             9.0             1,858      2.6       3,677     2.6            9.5
8. Bulk Supplies           259     0.9         160      0.8            -7.7               172     0.8          408     0.4            9.4
Toto I pi         29.140   100.0 4      7,484                                     61.404   100.0      129.865   100.0
Average: 8.6                                                 Average: 8.8
)  Differences with figures for energy ava labilIty In Table 1 reflect
tOchnical and non-technical los _s .
Source: Thirtenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, Dcember 1967,                                                                                 '
plus supporting analysis by CEA.
sa



-161-
Annex 5.1. Tables 3 to S
INDIA
WAIARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
The Present Value Of Total System Costs With
Kovna IV and Alternatives
Present Value of Costs         Cost Penalty Over
Proaras Scenario                                (Rs million)    _/       Cheapest ODtlon (%)
1.  Includina Kovna IV                                 74,755                          ---
2.  Qr. Ko na IV replaced by:
(a) 600 NW  as turbines plus                           81,200                          8.6
500 MW Vher al
(b) 400 NW gas turbines, 250 NW                        82.343                         10.2
pumped storage plus 500 NW thermal
(c) 1500 NW thermal                                    84,793                         13.4
a/ Costs include capital costs and operating and maintenance costs.  Cost streams have been
taken through 2020/21 the assumed operating lifetime of Koyna IV. It is assumed that
existing capacity wouid be replaced at similar costs under each scenario.  Costs have been
present-valued using a 12% discount factor.
Table 4
The Present Value Of Total System Costs
With Different Capacities Installed In Kovna IV
Present Value of Costs         Cost Penalty Over
Kovna IV Capacitv                               (Rs million)    a/       Cheanest ODtion (4)
(a) 500 NW                                             77,761                          4.0
(b) 750 NW                                             76,678                          2.6
(c) 1000 NW                                            74,755
a/ Costs estimated in similar manner as in Table 3.
...............................ufo..................us.n.sufnun..w.............f.......u.....
Table 5
The Present Value Of Total System Costs
With Different Dates Of Coumissionina Of Koyna IV
Present Value of Costs         Cost Penalty Over
Comissioninc Date                               (Rs million)    a/       Cheapest Optlon (4)
(a) base case (1994/96)                                74,755                          ...
(b) one year delay                                     75,857                          1.5
(c) two years delay                                    76,841                          2.7
(d) three years delay                                  77,719                          4.0
a/ Costs estimated in similar manner as in Table 3. with appropriate
allowances for comissioning delays.



INDIA
MAHARASiTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysli
Proarm Analy"l: ProDram Cost  and Sbnetits
(Rupe Ml illIon)                                         (oWh)                   (Rupee m llI on)
Trnnmission A
Therml               Hydro !/        Distribution                                                             Iner nta l
Total     Ineremental      Net       Increrental       Roves..
Year      CapituI   OiM  Fuel       Capital   Ohm    Capitol    ohm      CO         Cenerstion  OGneration       Revenues            r Suroom
USO/90    1,286      -        -      1,458     -       1,615      -      4,806            -             -            -
19tO/91    8,685     -        -      2,9C1     -      8,962       -     10,8              -             -            -8
1961/92    5,419     -        -      4,684     -       8,780     90    10,178              4             *            2                 4
1992/98    6,676    151      Su      6,9062     2      6,164     175    22,720         1,518         1,296         902              1,479
1998/94    6,604    268   1,859      6,121      2      7,685     252    22,286         8,380        8,256         2,475             8,"10
1994/96    5,577    410   2,162      4,289     14      5,090     811    16,628         6,855         5,627        4,545             6,984
19o/s0    8,348    617   $,124      2,912    122     4,058      $51    15,022        18,016        11,084        3,651            18,6U7
10t6/97      079    789   3,945      2,848    18       1,00      871    10,568        19,400        16,490       18,102            19,965
1997/90      409  062   4,676                 247      1,288     864     9,590        22,612        19,220       1L,076            28,256
1996/99             562   5,028               247                864     6,516        24,116       20,500        10,400            24,605
1999/2000           662   5,167               247                 64     6,660        24,720        21,017       16,014            25,481
2000/2021                  5,197              247                884     6,690        24,874        21,148       16,914            24,568
Source:  Bank and CEA estimates.
!/  Including Koyn  IV.                                                                                                                                .
/ Including the additional 47 OWl per annum gerated by Koyna IV.
S/ Assuming transmission and distribution loses of 15X.
J  Asueming an economic tariff level of Re 0.70 per kWh In 1909/90 rising to Re 0.60 per kWh In 1995/90.
/  Including conemur surplus at Re 0.41 per kWh.



-163-
Annex 5.1. Table 7
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
ProJect Analysis: KoYna IV Costs and Benefits
Transmission &
Koyna IV           Distribution
-------------- IV-------------         Total    Incremental       Net     Consumer      Economic
Year        Caoital    Ob&M       Caital      OL&    Costs       Revenues    Revenues   SurDlus    Net Benefits
1989/90        299       -           -          -        299          -          (299)        -            (299)
1990/91        305       -          173                  478                     (478)        -            (478)
1991/92         464      -          261         -        725          -          (725)        -            (725)
1992/93      1,090       -          347                1,602          -        (1,602)        -         (1,602)
1993/94       1,082      -          607         -      1,689          -        (1,689)        -         (1,689)
1994/95        455      12          347        18        832         553         (279)      486            207
1995/96        274      48                     18        340         737          397       648          1,045
1996/2021               48                     18         66         737          671       648          1,319
Source: Bank and CEA estimates.



-164-
Annex 5.1. Table 8
INDIA
MA4ARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
VESTERN REGION: AVERAGE POVER PP'CES BY STATE AM UN-ION TERRITORY
Real Increases in Prices   Pro  rtion
1984/85              1987/88         1984/85 to 1981/88             RMC
State/Union-
Ierritorv               Actual      Real     Actual      Real                    P _a.          (LK  cl
Gujarat                   65         65        84         67      + 3.0        + 1.0              82
Madhya Pradesh            54         54        73         58      + 7.4        + 2.4              74
Maharashtra bl            47         47        77         61      +29.7        * 9.1              75
Goa, Daman & Diu          53         53        71         57      + 7.5        + 2.4              65
Dadra & Nagar Haveli      68         68       103         82      +20.6        + 6.4              60
Western Region            54         54        78         62      +14.8        + 4.7              74
a/  Deflated using an index of consumer prices, published in International Financial
Statistics, IMF, March 1989.
b/  Figures above are different than for MSEB (Annex 2.5) since these data also reflect
sales by Tata Electric Companies, Bombay Suburban Electricity Supply  and Bombay
Electricity Supply and Transport (a publicly-owned distribution utility in Bombay).
cl Bank estimates
Source: Average Electric Rates & Duties in India, CEA, May, 1988, plus additional
estimates prepared by CEA.
WESTERM REGION: AVERAGE POWER PRICES BY NAIN CONSUWER CATEGORY
Real Increases in Prices    Proportion
1984/85             1987/88         1984/85 to 1987/88             LRMC
Main Consumer
Cateqory                Actual     Real    Actual      Real      _            % p.a.            () cl
Domestic                  46        46        41        33       -28.3        -10.5              25
Commercial                71         71       69         55      -21.4        - 7.7              60
Industry (LV+4V)          60        60        79        62       + 5.1       + 1.7              65
Industry (HV)             65        65        96        76       +17.0       + 5.3              115
Agriculture               23         23       15         12      -50.0        -20.6              10
Other b/                  58         58       97         78      +34.0        +10.3              85
Western Region            54         54       78         62      +14.8        + 4.7              74
a/  Deflated using an index of consumer prices, published in International Financial
Statistics, IMF, March, 1989.
bl  Comprises: public lighting, public water pumping, bulk supplies to distribution
utilities and inter-region sales.
cl Bank estimates.
Source: Average Electric Rates & Duties in India, CEA, May, 1988, plus additional
estimates prepared by CEA.



-165-
Annex 5.1. Tables 9 and 10
INDIA
Table 9
MAARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Estimated Costs of Autoaeneration
Cost per kW of Capacity (Rs)
50 kY Machine            200-400 kW Machine
1. Fixed Costs
Capital Cost _I                                   6,000                      4,220
Annual Charge b/                                    881                        620
Salaries                                            620                        420
Routine Maintenance                                 125                         85
Total Annual Fixed Costs                          1.625                      1.125
2. Variable Costs                                       Cost per kWh Generated (Paise)
Diesel Fuel                                          80                         76
Lubricant                                             7                          6
Total Variable Costs                                 87                         82
3. Averaae Cost of Generation cl                        149                       125
al  C.I.F. price  plus handlinq and installation.
1/ Assuming a It-year life anl a 12% discount rate.
SI Assuming 30% machine utilization.
Table 10
Estimated Costs of Diesel and Electric Puning
Electric                   Diesel
Motor/Engine Size (kW/H.P.)                             5.0                       7.0
Pump Lifetime (years)                                  15.0                      10.0
Pump Capital Cost (Rs)                               4,240                     10,865
Annual Charge (Rs)                                      623                     1.922
O&H Costs (Rs)                                          943                     2,650
Costs of Diesel Fuel (Rs/hour)                           -                       5.11
Annual Diesel Costs (Rs)                                                        4,088
Costs of Electricity (paise/kWh)                        XXX                        -
Annual Electricity Cost (Rs)                         2,984(XXX)                   -
Total Annual Cost                            1.566 + 2.984(XXX)                 8.650
Cost of electricity at which costs of electric pumping are the
same as the costs of diesel pumping:
Paise XXX/kuh - (8,650 - 1,566)12,984
- Paise 238/kWh



-166-
Annex 5.1, Table 11
INDA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Assumed Rates of Consumer Surplus (For 1987188)
Consumer            Consumption    Autogeneration       Average       Surplus
Category                Share           Cost            Tariff        Imputed  a/
(2)         (Paise/klWh)     (Paise/kWh)   (PaiselkWh)
Domestic                13.9             149              41            54
Covmercial               5.5             149              69            40
Industry LV + MV         8.5             125              79            23
Industry RV             49.3             125              96            14
Agriculture b/          16.4             238              15           111
Other cl                 6.4             125              97            14
100.0                    Average: 78             37.7
aj Surplus imputed at half thc difference between the average tariff
level and the corresponding cost of autogeneration.
b/ Figure given for autogeneration cost is the electricity cost equating
the costs of diesel and electric pumping.
c/ Comprisess public lighting, public water pumping, bulk sales to
distribution utilities and inter-region sales.



-167-                     Annex 5.1. Tables 12 and 13
INDIA
Table 12
KAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Proaram Analysis: Net Benefit Streams
(Rs Million, 1989/90 Prices)
One-Year      One-Year
Benefits     Benefits        Costs       Costs    Implementation   Benefits
Year            Base Case          -5%          -10%           +5%        +10%           Delay         Delay
-----_    _    -_--- --   -   -_----_-__  _    _    --_---- --   _--- -------_ -   _   -                 ................
1989/90          (4,306)          (4,306)       (4,306)      (4,521)      (4,737)       (3,828)        (4,306)
1990/91         (10,538)         (10:538)      (10,538)     (11,065)    (11,592)        (9,846)       (10,538)
1991/92         (10,169)         (10.169)     (10,169)      (10,678)    (11,186)       (10,131)       (10,173)
1992/93         (21,241)         (21,315)      (21,389)     (22,377)    (23,513)       (20,608)       (22,716)
1993/94         (18.426)         (18,616)     (18,807)      (19,538)    (20,650)       (19,940)       (20,757)
1994/95         (11,689)         (12,036)      (12,382)     (12,620)    (13,551)       (14,289)       (14,813)
1995/96          (1,635)          (2,304)       (2,974)      (2,386)      (3,137)       (7,335)        (8,088)
1996/97           9,390            8,392        7,395         8,862       8,334          3,250          (2824)
1997/98          13,666           12,503       10,840        13,180      12,707         11,074         10,363
1998/99          18,289           17,049       15,809        17,963      17,637         16,707         16,740
1999/2000        18,771           17,499       16,228        18,438      18,105         18,289         18,145
2000/2001        18,893           17,614        16,335       18,558       18,224        18,771         18,741
2001/1021        18,893           17,614        16,335       18,558       18,224        18,893         18,893
Source: Annex 5.1, Table 6
Table 13
Proaram Returns
NPV at 12%
IRR (%)     Rs  -illion    USS -illion
(i)   Base Case                                     14.0          12,194          820
(ii)  Benefits -5%                                   13.1          6,693           446
(iii) Benefits -10%                                  12.1            890            59
(iv)  Costs +5%                                      13.1          7,306           487
(v)   Costs +10%                                     12.4          2,320           155
(vi)  One-Year Delay in implementation              12.7           4,463          298
(vii) One-Year Delay in Benefits                     11.6         -2,442          -163
Source: Annex 5.1, Table 12



-168-                      Annex 5.1. Tables 14 and 15
INDIA
Table 14
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Project Analysis: Net Benefit Streams
(Rs Million)
3-Year         3-Year
Year            Base Case      Costs      Costs      Benefits      Benefits      Benefits    Implementation   Delay in
+10%      +30%         -10%           -30%          -50%           Delay         Benefits
1989/90           (299)        (329)      (389)        (299)         (299)          (299)           (75)           (299)
1990/91           (478)        (526)      (621)        (478)         (478)         (478)           (194)           (478)
1991/92           (725)        (798)      (943)        (725)         (725)         (725)           (375)           (725)
1992/93         (1,602)      (1,762)   (2,083)       (1,602)       (1,602)       (1,602)           (775)         (1,612)
1993/94         (1,689)      (1,858)   (2,196)       (1.689)       (1,689)       (1,689)         (1,123)         (1,689)
1994/95            207          124       (43)          103          (105)         (364)         (1,201)           (784)
1995/96          1,G45        1,011        943          907           630           284          (1,087)           (274)
1996/97          1,319        1,312      1,299        1,181           904           558            (687)            (66)
1997/98          1,319        1,312      1,299        1,181           904           558             726           1,319
1998/1999        1,319        1,312      1,299        1,181           904           558           1,250           1,319
I999/2021        1,319        1,312      1,299        1.181           904           558          1,3;9            1,319
Table 15
ProJect Returns
NPV at 12%
.Wi; ----------
IRR (%)     Rs illion    USS million
Base Case                                              18.3           2,371            158
(i)    Costs +10%                                      16.8           1,926           128
(ii)   Costs +30%                                      14.3           1,042            69
(Mii)  Costs +50%                                      12.3             157             10
(iv)   Benefits -10%                                   16.7           1,693            113
(v)    Benefits -30%                                   13.0             334            22
(vi )  Benefits -50%                                    7.6          -1,363            -91
(vii)  Ieplementation Delay of 3 years                 15.0           1,119             75
(viii) Benefits Delay for 3 years                      13.2             549             37



-169-                             & L. I
Pago 1 of1
WAHRASTRAPw=E PROJECT
RELATED OCET IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Annual Accounts, MSEB F1"982/83 to FY1987/88 (Draft).
2. Annual Reports, MSEB FY1986/87 to FY1987/88.
3. Preliminary Investment Plan for the VlIth Plan, MSEBJBank Mission,
January 1989.
4. MSE5 Energy Supply/Demand Balance, 1987/88 to 1999/2000, MEES/Bank
Mission, January 1989.
S. Detailed Statement of ESEB Couercial Receivables, ESEB, April 1988.
6. Detailed Fuel Consumption and Fuel Cost Statement 1987/88 to 1994/95.
1683/Sank Mission, January 1989.
7. Thirteenth Electric Power Summary of India, CEA, December 1987.
8. Koyna IV: Least Cost Expansion Study, S.K. Aggarwal, January 1989.
9. Koyna Hydroelectric Project Stage IV - Project Report, Government of
Mabarashtra, Irrigation Department, October 1987.



I8RD 214
re  wr ,WeE@                                  Tobeeloaf          ToM..dIN                                                                                           A
PROJECT
KOYNA IV HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT
*.  c             \             '                                                  T t   ,/o A"Wgbod                                                         MAJOR AIRPORTS
Seiuihay                                                              Alamud nagor                                                                           MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS-
-+---r / ~  i-  ! BROAD
METER
EXISTING POWER LINES:
220 kV LINES
II10 kV LINES
- ------    35 kV LINES
B\rsi ii+1;41t 't1 ;.\ >  |  <            *        PROPOSED POWER HOUSE
g  --i /* EXISTING POWER HOUSE
. / > .t  I18 9    -- - CATCHMENT BOUNDARY
E +: Chitale WadL,  tMallnagar                              \                                  \ % r . RESERVOIRS, LAKES, RIVERS
,t. .  -t/ .  , .   ahro Road  _, ,fydmb                                                      -  - - -     STATE BOUNDARIES
. -     ?        l- - t\-*INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.    t    \  sC/; i                   _        ,         =        fda~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pur  /J,
PROPOSED P   E@                                                         y^>  -%                                7PAKISTAt                                8                   Hvo
HOUSE - STAGj i6gS<p.,, <,-r
Dom                                                                                                                                            BAK.GLADESH 
-20"              M AHARASHTRA
RaMagIri                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REAO
Kolho                                                               Atubwo Se~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aRNTI aMOdrao ayo
Z         AWW.
II~A~ _a                                K5t1 rO7,\r~/t ee g Zt -  Ta- '     -ARLANKA'
Gook         10         T  oo           6     T ,z,d,o000
APRIL 1989



IBRD 21493
MADHYA                                  PRADESH                                                                        INDIA
SA2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SElCiAI  -p,o 5l 
' -                                                                                                                   Aj; EhlSOt >'_, "-ib:p 9, /'9 \\<'''. ........... -' > ...ELECTRIFICATION SCHEME
GUJARAT                    2                                                                                                                                                                                    O          OS         UN tl
GSA,NW*W \~. 0Elr,   _*to_o     ./ s=1-01  CIIA A _   EUNDE _ROJECT (o-                                     CONS,     EXISTING
o, Stohons
~   T,ab,,
C                                                                                                                                                                  Li-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To,,,o   Ie
132 kV
-    220 kV
-             -           -      ~~~~~~~~~400OkV
-2G' GwlD  _rarb,;--   CH Ors  _/ -G2r VDC Li..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w 
-1A      *                     .5 J                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STaT, 80A1,a,LE
T/sajj  VASARNA                                                   A D R O., }___SAsh,R
, ,,~~~~~-                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHINATK eu^ +\.ersr-9
:2                               ~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN /           NCIN
___ GOw -S                                                                                                                                     -'-'--  -                   /N./          5  A\          K        "
--                                                               ARIL-9-
~~  .r'~-~                  KARNATAK(A                         aSTNAGPUR RNG MAIN
SAXOOSTOOg  Too~~~~~~~~A                   KILOMETERS
0'                                                  K ~GA                                                                            AWAAT  RN    M                                       U E RAT
15  TIa IIAA  RT.~~~~~~~PIXROAOACT TO WAIOSA.AO ,IaNOAS,..aX, IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AX TOASOXOAX  IA'   ula,  TSAR~~APRL 19



