Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19235
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 3096-IN)
June 24, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
LOAN 3096-IN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Maharashtra Power Project in India, for
which Loan 3096-IN in the amount of US$ 400 million equivalent was approved on June 15, 1989, and
made effective on December 14, 1989. The Borrower was India, acting by its President. The
Implementing Agencies for the project were the Irrigation Department of the Government of Maharashtra
(GOMID) and the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB). The project comprised a hydroelectric
generation component, distribution components, and technical assistance to MSEB.
The physical components of the project were implemented as planned, although the
implementation of the main component, the 1,000 MW fourth stage of the Koyna hydroelectric scheme
was delayed because of procurement difficulties, and worse than expected geological conditions.
However, the underlying developmental objectives, including improving Maharashtra's retail power
tariff structure; strengthening the sector's finances; and introducing institutional improvements, have not
been achieved. A full account of how the state's power sector has deteriorated in the 1990s is contained
in the Implementation Completion Report (Report No. 19236 ) for the Second Maharashtra Power Project
(Loan 3498-IN)'. Loan 3096-IN closed on December 31, 1998, after two one-year extensions. Final
disbursements took place on March 23, 1999, when the loan amount was fully utilized.
This ICR was prepared by Anthony E. Sparkes (Task Leader), South Asia Energy Sector Unit
(SASEG), Sameer Shukla (Financial Analyst), and I. U. B. Reddy (Social Development Officer), and
reviewed by Kari Nyman, India Energy Team Leader, Energy Sector Unit, South Asia Region.
Preparation of this ICR began during a Bank ICR mission in December 1998, and was finalized during a
follow-up mission in February 1999. It is based on material in the project file and site-specific
information collected during the ICR mission. The implementing agencies, GOMID and MSEB,
contributed to the preparation of this ICR by providing technical data, the details of the final costs of the
project, and financial records and projections. GOMID's and MSEB's evaluation of their implementation
of the project components are given in Appendix Al and A2 of this ICR.
' Because of non-compliance with several of the financial covenants related to Loan 3498-IN (approved June 25,
1992), and because Government of Maharashtra failed to pass on to MSEB part of the proceeds of Loan 3498-IN,
the Bank suspended disbursements as of October 22, 1996. Although most of these covenants were later complied
with, MSEB's receivables position did not improve, and remains to-date at about 4 months instead of the 2.5 months
covenanted. Thus the suspension remained in place, and US$237.7 million was canceled, effective June 30, 1998,
when the loan account closed.



IN1DIA
MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT - LOAN 3096-IN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    In 1988 demand for electricity in Maharashtra had risen to about 5,400 MW, and most of this was
being supplied by thermal (coal) plants, with only a small portion being supplied by hydro-generated
electricity . Because of this high thermal share, a substantial portion of peak demand was being met
mainly with thermal plant, which for the Western Regior? was expensive and difficult to operate with
appropriate flexibility to follow the varying peak load, which hydro power can usually more easily
accommodate. To correct the imbalance, between thermal and hydroelectric sources, the long term
expansion plan for the Western Region, of which Maharashtra is a part, included the installation of a
number of peaking hydro plants, including the Koyna Phase IV scheme. This scheme, to increase peak
supplies by 1,000 MW, was least cost, minimized the displacement of population and had minimal
environmental impacts because no new reservoir was needed and the scheme would be built by the
Government of Maharashtra's Irrigation Department (GOMID) almost entirely underground (Part I,
paragraphs 6, 7 and 8).
Project objectives
2.    The project's stated objective were to improve the power supply and operating efficiency of the
Western Region and to improve the retail power tariff structure of Maharashtra State Electricity Board
(MSEB), strengthen MSEB's financial position, and introduce institutional improvements (Part I,
paragraphs 9 and 10).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Implementation. (Part I, paragraphs 11, 13, 14 and 15). The Koyna IV power plant has been
constructed, commissioning began in March 1999, and the scheme will be fully commissioned by
December 1999, which constitutes a delay of four years compared to the appraisal schedule (Part I,
paragraphs 17, 18 and 19). All transmission and distribution components were completed by MSEB in
1996, and have been in operation since then, resulting in operational and efficiency improvements for
MSEB and its consumers.
4.    Developmental outcome. (Part I, paragraphs 16, 25, 32 and 33). The underlying developmental
objective, to strengthen the power sector in Maharashtra, has not been achieved. The sector deteriorated
in the 1990s3. MSEB financial position is precarious and its future outlook is alarming, to the extent of
threatening increasingly to constrain state finances and economic development in Maharashtra.
5.    Project costs, savings, cancellations and closing date: (Part I, paragraphs 20 and 21). Following
the use of international competitive bidding procedures, most of the contracts were awarded to Indian
2 The Western Region electricity network serves Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.
3An account of this deterioration is described in detail in the Implementation Completion Report (Bank Report No.
19236) for the Second Maharashtra Power Project (Loan 3498-JN).



ii
companies. This factor and the substantial devaluation of the Rupee during the project implementation
period resulted in the project costs (US$656 million), in dollar terms, being much less than the appraisal
estimates (US$1,079 million). US$46 million was canceled from the loan account in 1992 because it was
expected that the cost of the transmission component would be lower than expected. In 1996, the Bank
cancelled US$16.67 million from the loan, when it concluded that MSEB had mis-procured overhead line
conductor to this value, following an MSEB exercise with two bidders, in which the bid prices were the
subject of negotiations. The closing date for the loan account was extended twice from December 31,
1996 to December 31, 1998. This conformed to the policy of the South Asia Region that closing dates are
only extended under unusual circumstances beyond the control of the beneficiary or borrower - in this
case because of delays at start-up (Part I, paragraph 17) and delays during construction (Part I, paragraph
19), which were beyond the control of the beneficiary.
6.    Rate of Return: (Part I, paragraphs 22 and 23). The main component of the project, Koyna IV,
cost less than estimated to construct, and is the least cost solution to supplying system peak demand. The
financial benefits of the scheme will begin to accrue to Maharashtra when thefrequency-linked pool rate
comes into effect, which is expected soon. This will encourage regional interchanges of electricity and
will lead to great economic advantages to India. Koyna's additional 1,000 MW of peak capacity will be
utilized both in Maharashtra and in other regions, especially the south of India, where capacity (MW)
shortfalls will persist for the next several years.
7.    Sustainability. (Part I, paragraphs 25 and 26).    Well qualified MSEB operations and
maintenance staff will ensure that the physical achievements of the project, the Koyna IV plant and the
transmission lines, will be sustained for the planned lives of the components of thirty to forty years.
However, MSEB's general financial position continues to deteriorate; it remains a burden on the State's
finances. The position is unlikely to improve until Maharashtra enters into a program of reform, along the
lines of the recommendations of the Rajadhyaksha Committee, which GOM commissioned to advise it -
recommendations which the Bank has endorsed - to create a power sector which will attract investments
from private sources, in the amounts needed, so that the power sector can expand at the rate required to
support Maharashtra economic development.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, Key Lessons Learned
8.    Bank Performance: (Part I, paragraphs 27, 28 and 29) Bank staff made major contributions to
help prepare MSEB's portion of the project, and later in its support to GOMID in the implementation
phase. However, the main component, Koyna IV, was not sufficiently well prepared when the loan was
approved. An implementing team in GOMID had not been established and bidding documents had rnot
been prepared. Also there were deficiencies regarding the resettlement and rehabilitation of the people
affected by the project, which were eventually identified and appropriately addressed, but only several
years after project start-up.
9.    Borrower Performance: MSEB completed it components on time and below cost. However,
compliance by Maharashtra and by MSEB with several superceding covenants of the Second Maharashtra
Power Project loan (3498-IN) was unsatisfactory. Interference by the Government of Maharashtra
(GOM) in the operations of MSEB resulted in MSEB being unable to perform as a commercial utility. In
contravention of the covenants, which required that GOM ensure that MSEB operates along commercial
lines, GOM did not allow MSEB to charge appropriate tariffs and insisted (and insists) that MSEB
provide low and heavily subsidized tariffs to agriculture users and to the Mula Pravara Cooperative
Society, which in turn meant placing a huge burden on industrial consumers.
10.   Inadequate and untimely tariff increases caused severe strain on MSEB's finances. MSEB was
also restricted from taking much needed actions to recover dues from non-paying consumers. This led to
an ever increasing burden of receivables, most of which, because of its age, has now become an
uncollectable bad debt. In addition, GOM issued directives to MSEB to provide and maintain additional



iii
electricity supplies to agricultural users, leading to shortages for other paying categories of consumers.
Besides weakening MSEB financially, this operational interference by GOM has over the years led to a
lack of accountability in MSEB, and a slackening of commercial discipline.
11.   GOMID successfully incorporated several examples of very modem technology in the Koyna IV
scheme, and these are detailed in Part I, paragraphs 30 and 31.
12.   Assessment of Outcome and Future Operations: (Part I, paragraphs 32-35) The results of the
project are mixed. The transmission and distribution components were completed ahead of time and
under budget, and the main component, the Phase IV extension of Koyna, will be completed late in
FY1999 also under budget. However, the underlying developmental outcome to strengthen MSEB was
only marginally successful. In response to requests for financial support to its power sector, the Bank has
advised Maharashtra that its current reform proposals, which mainly consist of establishing a tariff
commission instead of a power sector regulatory commission, and a trial of privatization for a small
portion of its network, fall far short of its own adviser's (theRajadhyaksha Committee) recommendation,
and the Bank's expectations. Thus Bank support in the Maharashtra state power sector is currently not
possible.
13.   Key Lessons Learned: (Part I, paragraphs 36-38)  The project did not produce the operational
and financial improvements in Maharashtra power sector, and as such it confirmed the position that has
been taken by the South Asia Region. Beginning in the mid-1980s, the Bank had attempted to improve
the performance of SEBs by direct involvement at the state level. This approach was generally
unsuccessful and the revitalization of institutionally and financially weak SEBs did not turn out to be
feasible. Projects failed to meet expectations beyond the physical construction of facilities, as was the
case with the subject project. The Bank was forced to take such strong measures as suspending
disbursement (including the Second Maharashtra Power Project) and subsequently canceling loans. It has
become clear that a sustainable solution to the sector's problems requires a focus on restructuring the state
power sector rather than revitalizing the state electricity boards (SEBs) as attempted in the past This
restructuring includes, inter alia, the unbundling of monopoly utilities, corporatization, establishment of
independent regulatory commission, tariff reforms, and privatization of distribution. This lesson has been
applied in the on-going power sector reform projects in Orissa, Haryana and Andhra Pradesh.
14.   Projectpreparation:  Inadequate project preparation prior to loan approval, resulted in the
Koyna IV component taking four years longer than forecast at appraisal. Projects must be carefully and
adequately prepared, including the evaluation of risks that might cause delays, with an implementation
team in place prior to loan approval, with bidding documents prepared and preferably issued and bids
received. These are pre-requisites if projects are to move smoothly from the preparation to the
implementation phase, and with minimum delays to project completion.
15.   Resettlement and rehabilitation:  It is difficult, and time and resource consuming to fix
resettlement problems during project implementation. In the case of this project, only through continual
Bank staff involvement were the issues eventually resolved, many years after they should have been.
Failure could well have been the result. Detailed and careful attention to the issues must be part of early
project preparation. Also the resettlement and rehabilitation plans need to be prepared by the institution
which will be responsible for carrying out the rehabilitation.



1
INDIA - MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT - LOAN 3096-IN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Background  Despite the progress India had made in expanding its generating
capacity from 32,000 MW in 1981 to 54,000 MW in 1988, supply shortages persisted in
1988, which were equivalent to about 20% of maximum power demand and 10% of electrical
energy supplied. Also the quality and reliability of the supplied electricity was mostly
unsatisfactory. Therefore, to meet a higher proportion of the demand, improve the quality of
supply, and to further extend rural electrification, the Government of India (GOI) planned in
1988 to install an additional 80,000 MW of capacity by the turn of the century, with power
sector investments for generation, transmission and distribution costing about US$150
billion. Some of these investments were expected to be made in the further development of
India's hydroelectric potential, which has an estimated capacity of about 100,000 MW.
2.    By 1988 only 16,000 MW of this hydro-potential had been developed with only a
further 4,700 MW under construction. The pace of India's hydroelectric investments had
been slow in the previous decade, and at the time of project appraisal GOI was striving to
increase the role of hydroelectric schemes in regional least-cost power developments.
Progress in developing hydro-schemes, which are generally capital intensive, had been slow
because of (a) inadequate financial resources in states with the greatest hydro potential, (b)
lengthy disputes over water rights and environmental issues, and (c) the limited technical
resources available for the preparation of large hydroelectric projects.
3.    Some system efficiency improvements were made in the 1980s to address the
unsatisfactory state of the power sector, including increased utilization of generating plant
and reductions in fuel consumption. In 1980 plant load factors averaged 42%, and about 800
tons of coal were required to produce one million units of electricity. By 1988 these figures
were estimated to have improved to 52% and 720 tons respectively. Tariff structures had
also been improved and increased, and in the 1980s tariffs rose in real terms by an average of
5% per annum. However, although tariffs to industrial and commercial consumers had been
increased to about 80% of marginal costs, the tariffs charged to agriculture were very low
and heavily subsidized.
4.    Even with these general improvements, India's power utilities were (and remain) for
the most part relatively inefficient. Key constraints included the divided responsibility
between GOI and the States for power development, political interference in the operations
of the State Electricity Boards (SEBs), and weaknesses in the financial structure of the sector.
These had undermined financial performance, and had held down resource mobilization.
Thus India's power systems were (and still are) delivering to consumers less power of a
poorer quality, and at a higher cost than they should be able to. The costs to the Indian
economy of shortages and poor quality supplies were magnified by inefficiencies in end-use



2
of electricity, caused mainly by insufficient commercial incentives in many markets and by
subsidized power prices to low voltage consumers, particularly agriculture. The National
Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) was (and remains) the one notable exception in this
picture. By 1988, a ten year old NTPC was already providing about 12% of the SEBs' bulk
electricity supplies, and had emerged as an efficient utility, making a return of about 17% on
its assets (most of which were less than fives years old).
5.   In the late 1980s, GOI continued with its initiative to reduce the power sector
inefficiencies, and to minimize their repercussions on future sector development. In an
attempt to improve the financial strength of the SEBs, GOI amended the Electricity (Supply)
Act to require them to earn a 3% rate of return on net assets at historic cost, after meeting
operating expenses, taxes, depreciation and interest. GOI also accelerated development of
the relatively efficient central utilities, particularly NTPC. GOI also formed the Power
Finance Corporation (PFC) to mobilize additional resources for SEBs willing to make needed
institutional reforms.
By the end of the 1980s GOI had recognized that central and state government
funding of the power sector investment programs would be insufficient, and that the
central and state government-owned utilities would have to rely increasingly on
their own internal resources and in particular on investments from the private sector.
In 1991 GOI opened the power sector to enable private investments to be made in
generation by modifying the law so that electricity production was removed from
the list of activities reserved for the public sector. The 1948 Act was amended, so
that many of the regulatory disincentives to private investment in the power sector
were lifted. In particular these changes provided for ownership of generating
companies by the private sector, and for private generating companies and captive
plants to sell power to the SEBs. Foreign companies were also allowed to
implement power projects. In October 1991, GOI established a Board to promote,
accelerate and clear private investment proposals in power projects.
6.   In 1989, when the Maharashtra Power Project was appraised, private utilities were
making only marginal contributions to public electricity supply. Two of Indian's four private
utilities were in Maharashtra, where a significant expansion of private involvement in power
supply was expected over the following few years. Government of Maharashtra (GOM) was
already actively seeking proposals from the private sector for projects to be constructed
during the Eighth Plan.
7.    Demand for electricity in Maharashtra, with a population of 75 million, was growing
at a rate of about 9% per year. In 1981 the State's demand, constrained by deficiencies in
supply capacity, stood at 2,990 MW, and by 1988, with increasing deficiencies in supply, the
demand had risen to about 5,400 MW. This demand was mainly being met by the generating
plants owned or leased and operated by the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB), by
the plant owned by the two private utilities, and by imports from NTPC. Most of these were
thermal (coal) plants. Because of this high thermal share, the peak demand in the Western
Region was being partially met with expensive-to-run thermal plant. This inefficiency was
further compounded by the added substantial cost of additional maintenance for the coal-



3
fired units, caused by thermally cycling them to match the peak load shape, with a rapidity
for which they were not designed.
8.    To correct this thermal/hydro imbalance, the long-term  expansion plan for the
Western Region included the installation of a number of peaking hydro plants. The plan
included the Koyna Phase IV scheme, which was to more than double the capacity of the
existing hydroelectric site from 880 MW to 1,880 MW4. This proposal was least cost,
minimized the displacement of population and had minimal environmental impacts, because
no new reservoir was needed and all of the above-ground infrastructure, except for a new
transmission line, was already in place, serving the existing phases of the scheme. The
development of Phase IV of the scheme would increase Koyna's capacity to generate at peak
hours with water currently stored and used to generate electricity at times when spare
capacity, mainly thermal, existed elsewhere. Shifting Koyna to higher peak load duty would
result in existing thermal units operating at a higher load factor, and would increase their
energy generation by about 1,390 GWh per year.
9.    The project's stated objective was thus to improve the power supply and operating
efficiency in MSEB's and the Western Region's power systems through: (a) expanding
regional peaking capacity at least cost; (b) improving utilization of existing generating
capacity; (c) appropriately strengthening and   upgrading MSEB's transmission and
distribution systems; (d) recommending ways to improve load dispatch in the Western
Region and rationalize bulk power regional trading; (e) improving MSEB's retail power
tariff structure; (f) strengthening MSEB's finances; and (g) introducing institutional
improvements to MSEB.
10.   The project, as part of Maharashtra's least cost power development program,
included: (a) the construction of the fourth stage of the Koyna hydroelectric power plant (4 x
250 MW); (b) detailed inspection of the existing Koyna dam, repairs as needed, upgrading
of instrumentation, and review of emergency plans as required; (c) supply and erection of
equipment and materials for MSEB's five-year transmission and distribution investment
program, and strengthening of MSEB's capabilities for planning of distribution systems; (d)
implementation of plans to strengthen MSEB's finances, management, and operations
including: (i) financial performance targets and corresponding actions; (ii) setting up of
corporate planning, operational performance monitoring, and management accounting
systems; (iii) streamlining internal procedures; and (iv) accelerating development of data
processing and internal audit systems; (e) consultancy and training services, including
services of a Panel of Experts to advise on matters related to the Koyna IV scheme and the
existing dam; and (f) computer hardware and software required to implement parts (a) to (e)
of the project.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
11.   As described below, the physical components of the project (expanding regional
peaking capacity at least cost; improving utilization of existing generating capacity; and
appropriately strengthening and upgrading MSEB's transmission and distribution systems)
4The Koyna scheme is described in further detail in the Annex to this ICR.



4
were all completed on time, except for the Koyna IV extension, which was the subject of a
four year delay. They were completed at costs below the appraisal estimate. The stated
objectives of the project, to improve power supply and operating efficiency in MSEB's and
the Western Region's power systems might thus be judged to have been achieved. However,
this would be a superficial and erroneous conclusion, because, despite achieving the
implementation of the physical components, the Maharashtra power sector is in an even
worse financial shape than it was in when the loan was approved in 1989.
12.  In essence, the underlying developmental objectives, including improving
Maharashtra's retail power tariff structure; strengthening the sector's finances; and
introducing institutional improvements, have not been achieved. A full account of how the
sector has deteriorated in the 1990s is contained in the Implementation Completion Report
(Bank Report No. 19236) for the Second Maharashtra Power Project (Loan 3498-IN)5.
Although MSEB continues to be technically and managerially one of the better performing
Indian SEBs, its financial position is precarious and its future outlook is alarming, to the
extent of threatening increasingly to constrain state finances and economic development in
Maharashtra. The makings of a state financial crisis, emanating from the deleterious impacts
of its power sector are very much evident (paragraph 16).
Implementation of Physical Components
13.   Objective (a) expanding regional peaking capacity at least cost. This objective
has been met with the construction of the fourth stage of the Koyna hydroelectric power
plant, including the supply and installation of its four 250 MW turbine generators. The
commissioning of the first of these was complete in May 1999, and commissioning of all
four units will be completed by December 1999. This constitutes a delay of about four years
compared to the schedule envisaged at appraisal. The causes for this delay are detailed in
paragraphs 17, 18 and 19.
14.   Objective (b) improving utilization of existing generating capacity.  This
objective has been accomplished, because as the four Koyna units become available to the
system, they and the other hydroelectric units at Koyna will contribute electrical power to the
peak demand, and will enable coal-fired units to be used more expeditiously with lower
operating and maintenance costs. Also, consultants were employed to carry out detailed
inspections of the existing Koyna dam, and provide advice, which GOMID has acted upon.
The necessary repairs have been performed to the dam and these have stopped the leakages,
which though not at an unusual high rate for a dam of this kind, had been increasing steadily
over the last twenty or so years. The Panel of Experts, which was established to oversee the
construction of Phase IV and advise on the dam repairs, has expressed satisfaction at the
greatly reduced rate of leakage.
15.   Objective (c) appropriately strengthening and upgrading MSEB's transmission
and distribution systems.  MSEB utilized proceeds of the loan to help procure, via
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, materials which have been erected in
the construction of 49 schemes to extend and reinforce its transmission system. These
SSee also Footnote to Preface



5
included the building of 1,194 kilometers of transmission lines at 400 kV, 220 kV and 132
kV, and the construction of substation additions amounting to 4,122 MVA.
Achievement of Developmental Objectives
16.   The project failed to achieve the developmental objectives set out at the time of
appraisal, namely improving Maharashtra's retail power tariff structure; strengthening the
sector's finances; and introducing institutional improvements6. The project was one of
several by which the Bank attempted, in the 1980s, to improve the performance of SEBs by
direct involvement at the state level. As with the other projects, this approach was
unsuccessful, even with MSEB, one of the better performing SEBs, and the revitalization of
an already institutionally and financially weak utility turned out not to be feasible. It has
since become clear that a sustainable solution to the sector's problems cannot be achieved by
revitalizing the SEB, as attempted in this project, but rather requires a focus on addressing
the root causes of the crisis:- the politicization of decisions, non-technical losses due to theft,
lack of a commercial culture, which can be achieved only through structuring the state power
sector. This restructuring includes, inter alia, the unbundling of monopoly utilities,
corporatization, establishment of independent regulatory commission, tariff reforms, and
privatization of distribution.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
17.   Projectpreparation  The main component of the project, Koyna IV, was the
subject of major delays at start-up. The project was submitted for Board approval without
the prerequisites that are now expected of the borrower/beneficiary at project entry. The
loan became effective in December 1989. But it was not until April 1990 that a working
group was set up in GOMID to handle the project.
18.   Procurement (see also paragraph 21)  Bidding document had therefore not been
prepared, and only following a protracted exercise7 between GOMID and the Bank, were
the civil works bid documents approved by the Bank in April 1991. Despite the SAR
stating that because of their size the turbine generators were unprecedented in India, the
bidding documents for the procurement of these were also not available prior to loan
effectiveness. The civil works and the turbines in a project of this nature are inextricably
inter-linked. The SAR implementation schedule envisaged that the civil works contract
and the turbine generator contracts would be effected in September 1990, i.e. nine months
after loan effectiveness. This was an impossible target. Civil works contracts were
eventually effected in March 1992, eighteen months later than envisaged in the appraisal
schedule.
19.   The exercise to evaluate the turbine generator contract bids was especially complex,
requiring lengthy discussions in the Bank, and with GOMID and the Central Electricity
6 Details of the studies, which were to be financed under the loan, how they were carried out, and their impacts,
are provided in Table 7, page 15, of this ICR.
7The exercise included exchanges between the Bank and GOMID and GOI over the period November 1987 to
April 1991, when the bid documents were eventually issued.



6
Authority (CEA), and the employment by the Bank of consultants to advise it on special
aspects of the ICB bids. This exercise was unprecedented, and has been described by the
Bank's Procurement Policy and Services Group as the most complex bid evaluation the
Bank has been involved in. It took ten months to resolve. As a result of the combination
of these procurement complexities, an already tight implementation schedule was delayed
in its start-up by two and half years compared with the schedule envisaged at the time of
appraisal. The implementation of the underground works were delayed by worst than
expected rock conditions, which, contrary to the original design plan, required the tunnel to
be lined with reinforced concrete.
20.   Costs. Project cost estimates were prepared at appraisal on the basis of international
prices of various plant components. The final cost of the project is summarized in Table 8A.
The cost of the Koyna IV component was about US$ 331million equivalent compared with
US$ 455 million estimated at appraisal in 1989. The cost of the transmission and distribution
components was about US$ 325million equivalent compared with US$ 624 million estimated
at appraisal. This greatly reduced cost for the transmission component was mainly because
MSEB's generation program during the project period was not as extensive as envisaged, and
several evacuation transmission lines where thus omitted from its development activities. A
major factor contributing to the reductions in costs of both the Koyna and transmission
components relates to the devaluation of the rupee8, linked to the fact that most of contracts,
especially those for the supply of materials for the transmission lines, were awarded,
following international competitive bidding, to Indian suppliers, who were well able to match
the appropriate standards of the specifications, which GOMID and MSEB had included in the
bidding documents. The turbine generators were supplied by European manufacturers.
21.   Cancellations, and Closing Date.  In May 1992, US$46 million was canceled
from the loan account at the request of MSEB and India's Department of Economic Affairs
(DEA) because it was expected that the cost of the transmission component would be lower
than expected (paragraph 20). In October 1996, the Bank cancelled US$16.67 million from
the loan proceeds, following a lengthy investigation, when it declared that MSEB had mis-
procured overhead line conductor to this value, following an MSEB exercise with two
bidders in which the bid prices were the subject of negotiations. In response to GOMID and
DEA requests, the closing date for the loan account was extended twice from December 31,
1996 to December 31, 1998. This conformed to the policy of the South Asia Region that
closing dates are only extended under unusual circumstances beyond the control of the
beneficiary or borrower. In this case it was agreed that the loan closing date be extended to
allow access to the remaining funds because the delays at start-up (paragraph 17) and during
construction (paragraph 19) were beyond GOMID's control.
22. Rate of Return. It was recognized at the time of appraisal that the benefits of the
Koyna IV project would relate to the additional value of concentrating the station's
generation into periods when system demands are highest. The benefits of Koyna IV would
be to move 1,390 GWh of generation from off-peak to peak periods and to provide an
additional 47 GWh from efficiency improvements. It was also recognized that there would
8 At appraisal in 1989, the exchange rate was Rs. 15 per US$. By loan closure the rate had changed to about
Rs. 40 per US$)



7
be no financial benefit to the concentration of generation into peak periods until the retail
tariffs in the Western Region distinguished between the costs of supplying energy during
peak and off-peak periods, and that there was a likelihood that two-part tariffs would be
introduced for large consumers in the following few years. For Maharashtra, this was to be
one of the principal objectives of the ongoing pricing study. The financial benefit of Koyna
IV would then be the difference between peak and off-peak revenues on Koyna's off-peak
generation which would be concentrated into peak periods. Despite the study conclusions
that Maharashtra should invoke time-of-day tariffs, GOM has declined so far to allow MSEB
to apply these for its consumers.
23.   However, the Koyna IV scheme, with a cost-to-completion considerably less, in
dollar terms, than estimated, was the least cost solution to Maharashtra's and the Western
Region's peak demand needs. India will soon employ an inter-regional electricity trading
system, which is expected to bring a significant improvement in grid discipline, through a
frequency-linked pool rate. This will provide opportunities for inter-regional trading, when
adequate interconnections are developed so that power can be transmitted from one region to
another. Koyna will be able to contribute to meeting the peak demand in the Western
Region, and even be able to help with meeting peak demand in the Southern Region to where
an import/export interconnector has recently been constructed, and where power is in short
supply 24-hours a day. Therefore, besides its immediate economic advantages, Koyna will
soon be able reap the financial benefits for MSEB and Maharashtra.
24.   Financial management    At the time that the Bank suspended India's right to
access the funds of the loan of the Second Maharashtra Power Project, MSEB and GOM
were not in compliance with a number of covenants. MSEB was not in compliance with the
accounts receivables covenant and the rate of return covenant, and also GOM had failed to
pass on the proceeds of the Bank loan to MSEB. While these defaults were to a large extent
the outcome of traditionally poor financial management practices in both MSEB as well as
GOM, they were also symptomatic of the malaise affecting most states, i.e. that of a lack of
commercial accountability in the state governments as well as in the SEBs resulting from
years of political intereference in most aspects of the operational, administrative and
financial functioning of the power sector.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   The physical achievements of the project are highly likely to be sustained. The
Koyna IV power plant will remain in the ownership of GOM, but will be leased to MSEB for
future operation and maintenance. It will be operated to help meet the system peak load for
about four hours per day with a load factor of about 17%. MSEB has trained sufficient, and
suitably qualified, staff at the other Koyna power stations and hydroplants throughout the
state, and these will operate and maintain the Koyna IV plant to MSEB's high standards.
Operational plans to ensure the sustainability of the Koyna IV scheme and the transmission
and distribution components of the project have been discussed and agreed with MSEB's
management. These include the provision of spares for the first few years of Koyna IV's life,
and through the annual budget of adequate funds for the appropriate maintenance and
operation of the Koyna IV and transmission plant and equipment.



8
26.   The marginal improvements in MSEB's financial position brought about in 1996,
following the threat to suspend disbursements from Loan 3498-IN and the suspension itself,
have been sustained. GOM has not since issued instructions to MSEB with regard to any
particular consumer groups; and a tariff increase of 13%, mainly falling on industrial
consumers, was allowed in 1998. However, MSEB's position continues to be weak, and
dependant on Government subsidies. Thus the sector is unlikely to be able to attract
investments in the amounts needed for electricity developments to support Maharashtra's
economic development. It is doubtful if the position will improve unless Maharashtra enters
into a program of reform, as recommended by its consultants.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.  Identification and appraisalBank staff performance was good in that it helped
MSEB identify and prepare the components of transmission and distribution, and prepared
pertinent terms of reference for the recommended studies. However, Bank's involvement
in the preparation of the Koyna IV component of the project was unsatisfactory. Technical
specifications were not ready at the time of loan approval, and the pre-qualification of the
civil works contractors was left to be performed in the initial stages of implementation.
This resulted in substantial delays in project start-up and completion (see paragraph 17 and
18 above). However, staff involvement at negotiations was correct when it insisted that
GOMID strengthen its technical staff, because GOM was reluctant to hire foreign,
specialists. It was also appropriate that the Bank recommended that GOMID should
appoint a Dam Safety Panel, which contributed substantially in resolving several difficultl
technical problems with clarity and speed.
28.   Resettlement and rehabilitation  There were deficiencies in the resettlement and.
rehabilitation preparation for the project, though fortunately the scale of resettlement was
small (see Appendix C). At the outset, in 1989, there was no resettlement plan, but only a,
number of commitments from GOM to eventually provide resettlement information. A
technical specialist visited the field in 1992, and discovered that 530 families would be
affected, primarily by land acquisition. Subsequently in the latter years of the project's
implementation, the quality of supervision improved, the problems were properly studied
by Maharashtra's Department of Forestry and Revenues, by using the services of an
independent consultant. Bank staff then helped in a lengthy exercise, including linking the
extensions of the loan closing date with the implementation of retrofit economic
rehabilitation plan in the form of house improvement grants, financial assistance for
starting income generation activities, and upgrading and creating basic civic amenities in
the affected villages. As a result, the overall living standards of affected persons have
improved.  The economic rehabilitation program  prepared in response to Bank's
supervision mission's recommendation is under implementation, and GOM has assured the
Bank that it will complete the implementation by June 1999, and that adequate funds have
been earmarked for this purpose. GOM will be providing the Bank with a report in July
1999 which confirms the completion of the program, and details the final actions taken.
29.   Supervision    Bank supervision performed professionally in addressing delicate
procurement problems (including cases of misprocurement), thereby avoiding further delays
to project implementation. The Bank successfully maintained a good working relationship
with GOI, GOMID and MSEB, and provided advice on the use of modem technologies



9
(paragraph 29), financial and managerial issues, and advised GOM on how it should reform
the power sector. Complex procurement issues, including numerous complaints from bidders
in the ICB process were handled expeditiously. A mid term review of this project and the
Second Maharashtra Power Project (Loan 3498-IN) took place in February 1996, which
confirmed the Bank's concerns over MSEB's weak financial position, and eventually led to
the suspension of Loan 3498-IN, in an attempt to ensure that the concerns regarding MSEB's
weak financial position were addressed.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.   GOMID prepared a least-cost, economical and sustainable project, utilizing the
experience it had acquired in designing and building several hydroelectric schemes and many
irrigation dams and waterways in the state. GOMID is to be commended for its employment
of several new technologies in the Koyna IV scheme. The scheme utilizes 400 kV gas-
insulated (SF6) switchgear, which is installed in an underground cavern. It also includes the
use-of the world's first commercial installation of 400 kV gas-insulated cabling (about 7 km -
14 phase runs, each with a length of 500 meters). This runs from the underground generator
transformers to the small (/2 hectare) take-off yard at the commencement of the transmission
line, which is the only evidence above ground that the 1,000 MW scheme exists.
31.   The scheme has been constructed entirely underground, including the power house,
the transformer and switchgear halls and, notably, the water intake structures. In excavating
the intakes, which entrain the water from the existing reservoir into the head race tunnel,
GOMID performed the first underwater lake tap in India. This environmentally protective
exercise, which was performed without lowering the level of the water in the reservoir, is a
forerunner to several exercises, which will need to be performed in India, as it follows a least
cost plan of development, in devoting more of its existing hydro-sites to supplying peak
demand, and creating new pumped storage schemes at existing reservoirs. In preparation for
the Koyna IV exercise, staff of GOMID witnessed lake taps performed in Europe, and
technical experts from Sweden and the United States were employed to advise on the
complex drilling operation and the placement of explosives.
32.   Compliance by Maharashtra and by MSEB with several superceding covenants of the
loan for the Second Maharashtra Power Project was unsatisfactory. Interference by the
Government of Maharashtra (GOM) in the operations of MSEB resulted in MSEB being
unable to perform as a commercial utility. In contravention of the covenants, which required
that GOM ensure that MSEB operates along commercial lines, GOM did not allow MSEB to
charge appropriate tariffs and insisted (and insists) that MSEB provide low and heavily
subsidized tariffs to agriculture users, which places a huge burden on industrial consumers,
especially when the favored consumer groups fail to pay. Inadequate and untimely tariff
increases caused severe strain on MSEB's finances. MSEB was also restricted from taking
much needed actions to recover dues from non-paying consumers leading to an ever
increasing burden of receivables, most of which, because of its age, has now become an
uncollectable bad debt. In addition, GOM issued directives to MSEB to provide and
maintain additional electricity supplies to agricultural users, leading to shortages for other
paying categories of consumers. Besides weakening MSEB financially, this operational
interference by GOM has over the years led to a lack of accountability in MSEB, and a
slackening of commercial discipline.



10
G. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
33.   The results of the project are mixed. The transmission and distribution components
were completed ahead of time and under budget. The main component, the Phase IV
extension of Koyna, will be completed late in FY1999, and the resulting benefits will
transpire (paragraph 23). But, the underlying developmental outcome to strengthen MSEB
was only marginally successful and is unlikely to be sustained (paragraph 16). However, this
project and the Second Maharashtra Power Project served to ensure that Maharashtra studied
the need to restructure its power sector, but seemingly it has decided that it is not necessary
yet.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
34.   Maharashtra has inquired as to whether the Bank would be able to support with a
new loan or other instrument, its plans to further develop its hydroelectric potential, in
particular a pumped storage scheme at Koyna (Phase V). The Bank has responded that it
would welcome the chance to support Maharashtra power sector, including hydroelectric
developments, but only if the sector enters a reform mode, consistent with the
recommendations of its consultants - recommendations which the Bank endorses. The
consultants have recommended, inter alia, that MSEB be corporatized and remain
responsible only for generation and transmission; that distribution be privatized; that tariffs
be rationalized to limit cross-subsidies and to properly reflect the cost of supply; that all
consumers be metered; a power sector reform bill enacted; and a power sector regulatory
commission  established.  The Bank has advised Maharashtra that its current reform
proposals, which mainly consist of establishing a tariff commission instead of a power sector
regulatory commission, and a trial of privatization for a small portion of its network, fall far
short of its consultant's recommendation and the Bank's expectations, so that Bank support
in the Maharashtra state power sector is currently not possible.
35.   MSEB is one of the better performing SEBs, yet its financial position is precarious
and its future outlook is alarming, threatening to increasingly constrain state finances and
economic development in Maharashtra. The makings of a deep crisis are very much evident.
The scope for continuing and increasing Government subsidy support mainly on the basis of
adjustments such as debt to equity conversions, and loan and equity write-offs, is being
exhausted. The Government's own financial position does not allow large cash subsidies.
The Bank has urged the Government to start addressing this looming power and fiscal crisis
before it becomes an acute reality. Maharashtra Government could examine the experience
of Andhra Pradesh in this respect. The Andhra Pradesh Government has recently launched a
comprehensive program of reforms in the power sector, but only after APSEB's situation had
reached crisis proportions. MSEB is headed in a similar direction, and MSEB's burden on
the Government is rising. It would be much easier to launch and implement a comprehensive
power sector reform program now, rather than 3-5 years down the line when options are
limited and implementing them has become much more difficult.



11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
36.   Reform in thepowersector Beginning in the mid-1980s, the Bank had attempted to
improve the performance of SEBs by direct involvement at the state level. This approach
was generally unsuccessful and the revitalization of institutionally and financially weak
SEBs did not turn out to be feasible. Projects failed to meet expectations beyond the physical
construction of facilities, as was the case with the subject project, where the objectives of
operational and financial improvements did not result. The Bank was forced in several
instances to take such strong measures as suspending disbursements (including the Second
Maharashtra Power Project) and subsequently canceling loans. It has become clear that a
sustainable solution to the sector's problems requires a focus on restructuring the state power
sector rather than revitalizing the SEBs as attempted in the past This restructuring includes,
inter alia, the unbundling of monopoly utilities, corporatization, establishment of
independent regulatory commission, tariff reforms, and privatization of distribution. This
lesson has been applied in the on-going power sector reform projects in Orissa, Haryana and
Andhra Pradesh.
37.   Projectpreparation  Projects must be properly prepared, with an implementation
team in place prior to loan approval, with bidding documents prepared and preferably issued
and bids received, if projects with accurate estimates of costs, are to move smoothly from
preparation to implementation. The implementation of Koyna IV took two to three years
longer than planned because the project was not adequately prepared at the time of loan
approval, resulting inter alia in higher costs, and charges, which could have been lower, on
un-disbursed portions of the loan.
38.   Resettlement and rehabilitation  It is difficult and  time  consuming  to  fix
resettlement problems during project implementation. Early, detailed and careful attention to
the issues must be part of project preparation, and the details need to be prepared by the
institution which will be responsible for the rehabilitation. In the case of the Maharashtra
Power Project, the institution responsible, the Forestry and Revenue Department, only
became active in the exercise several years after the project took off.



12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
i A. Achievement ofOectis                      Substantial                .tial              Negliible            Notapplicable
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                         V
Public sector management
Private sector development
Other
_ _   Ub             Unlikely               Uncertain
B Project Sustainability
C. Bank perfmance                         Highy Satisf  |ry         Safis6ewry               Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance                                   .
Appraisal
Supervision                                                                                         ,          ___...........
D. Bopower erorAmae                       Hlg  S-tisfactoy          Satisftry          Mr hrinallysaictory         Deficient
Preparation (physical elements)
Implementation (physical elements)
Covenant compliance
Operation (physical elements)                                           v
E Assessment of outcomvHigbly
E. Assessment of outcome                                                                        v



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Preceding Operations
Ramagundam Thermal                3x200 MW                      January 1979       Complete
Farakka Thermal                   3x200 MW                      June 1980          Complete
Second Ramagundam Thermal         3x500 MW                      December 1981      Complete
Central Power Transmission        400kV+220kV transmission      May 1983           Complete
Second Farakka Thermal            2x500 MW                      June 1984          Complete
Rihand Power Transmission         500kV HVDC+400kV AC tr.       May 1985           Complete
Combined Cycle Power              413 MW (Anta)                 April 1986         Complete
Capital Power Supply              4x210 MW (Dadri)              June 1987          Complete
Talcher Thermal                   2x500 MW                      June 1987          Complete
Chandrapur (Maharashtra)          2x500 MW                      May 1985           Complete
Nathpa Jhakri                     6x250MW                       January 1989       Under
construction
Second Maharashtra Power          lx500 MW (Chandrapur Unit 7);
500 kV HVDC line             June 1992          Complete
Following Operations
Orissa Power Sector Restructuring  T and D                      May 1996           Under
implementation
Haryana Power APL 1               T and D                       January 1998       Under
implementation
Andhra Pradesh APL 1              T and D                       February 1999      Under
implementation
Total IBRD Loans:                  14
Preceding Operations
Singrauli Thermal                 3x200 MW                      April 1977         Complete
Ramagundam Thermal                3x200 MW                      January 1979       Complete
Korba Thermal                     3x200 MW                      April 1970         Complete
Second Singrauli Thermal          2x500 MW                      May 1980           Complete
Farakka Thermal                   3x200 MW                      June 1980          Complete
Second Korba Thermal              3x200 MW                      July 1981          Complete
Total IDA Credits:                   6
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification                                      08/87                      08/87
Preparation                                         10/88                       10/88
Appraisal                                           01/89                      01/89
Negotiations                                        05/89                     05/15/89
Board presentation                                  06/89                     06/15/89
Signing                                             09/89                     09/11/89
Effectiveness                                       11/89                     12/14/89
Project completion (physical elements)              12/95                       12/99
Loan closing                                       12/31/97                   12/31/98



14
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
&uk FiW   Yeas             FY0       ml93                                                              9
Appraisal estimate (US5 million)   39.6    111.0    186.0   261.6    344.0                393.9    400.0
Actual (US$ million)               19.9    23.3      41.2      93.6    144.3    175.7    252.3    296.8   337.3*
Actual as % of estimate (%)         50       20       22        36       42       46       64        74
Date of final disbursement                           =                                                    03/23/99
* US$62.67 million was cancelled from the loan (see text, paragraph 21)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Construction and Commissioning
Cont-ad effeaed                         Completion                   Comneril operation
Co _,ou eut                                                                                            be,in_
SAR             Actual             SAR              Actual              SAR             Actual
Koyna civils           08/90            10/92              3/94              4/99                -                 -
KoynaE and M           08/90            1/95*             12/95             12/99**             3/95             4/99
* Although the main contract for the supply and erection of the 4x250 MW turbogenerators was signed on May 26, 1994, it did not
become effective until January 1995, when GOMID had established an LOC in favor of contractor, as per conditions of contract
* First unit commissioned in April 1999. Fourth unit expected to be commissioned before end of December 1999.
Table 6: Key System Indicators
1991/2      1992/3      1993/4       1994/5       1995/6       1996/7       1997/8
State system annual load factor %           73.2         75.4        72.0         75.9         77.9         78.0         nya
MSEB thermal plant availability factor %     77.4        77.7        79.8         81.9          83.8        85.2         84.2
Resere miargin MW                                                               Nil
MSEB coal consumption (kg/kWh)              0.770       0.800       0.800        0.798        0.804        0.788        0.80C
Number of system collapses I/                  3            1           1            -            7           3             1
MSEB installed capacity (MW)               7,503        7,503       7,593        7,725        7,725       7,725         8,281
MSEB annual generation (GWh)              31,360       31,030      34,110       38,210       39,390      41,020        41,630
MSEB annual sales (GWh)                                30,960      34,560       37,760       41,620      42,700          nya
Total losses %                               15.7        15.3        15.2         15.3          15.4        15.3         nya
MSEB average tariff income p/kWh             107          136         150         161           169         199          213
MSEB income from sales Rs. crores          3,285        4,306       5,202        6,081        7,034       8,498         9,888
MSEB rate of return %                         3.0         5.2         4.8          4.7           4.8         4.5          4.5
Self financing ratio                         11.6        27.5        11.2         38.3          36.0        53.6         44.9
Receivables (days)                           138          137         139         134           128         112          107
Collections to billing ratio                  n/a         n/a        93.2         94.3          94.4        92.5         91.6
Payables (days)                              140          153          57          58            54          54           52
Debt service ratio                           0.97        1.20        1.18         1.41          1.55        1.39         nya
No. of consumers (million)                   8.84        9.27        9.75        10.27         10.87       11.42         nya
No. employees (regular)                   107,450     111,514     111,514      111,514       110,662     110,874      110,681
Consumers/employee                           82.2        83.1        87.4         92.1          98.3       103.0         nya
Employee/MW installed                        14.3        14.9         14.7        14.4          14.3        14.4         13.4
Transmission I lkV & above (km)          177,000            -           -            -       208,887     214,593         nya
DistributionbelowllkV(km)                317,000            -           -            -       396,113     397,348         nya
Transmission s/s capacity (MVA)           43,000            -           -            -        43,542      46,163         nya
1/ System collapses will likely reduce in number with commissioning in 1999 of +500 kV HVDC line, between
Chandrapur and Bombay, which was financed under 3498-IN



15
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Recommendations on ways to improve load dispatch in the Western Region and
rationalize bulk power regional trading.
It was agreed in 1991, that this study should not be performed under the project, and that the
Power Sector Review being carried out by the Bank (ESMAP) superceded it. The ESMAP
work resulted in the Bank Report No. 9786-IN, INDL4 - Long Term Issues in the Power
Sector. The Report advised that: (a) huge savings could be derived for India by improved
coordination through regional inter-trading, and by the implementation of two-part tariffs for
the supply to NTPC of generation, and that such improvements would also bring about
improvements to the environment as a result of reduced emissions and reduced ash
production; (b) the enormous sector investment program would need considerable support
from the private sector if it were to succeed; (c) increasing tariffs would provide substantial
economic benefits, and that raising them to the level of LRMC would produce saving to the
Indian economy of Rs. 400 billion to 2000; (d) substantial saving both in capital investments
and annual costs could be made through improved end-user efficiency.
Improving MSEB's retail power tariff structure.
This study was performed, and one of its main conclusions was that MSEB should employ
time-of-day tariffs, to minimize investments and to maximize the use of its existing sources
of generation. However, GOM has not allowed MSEB to use these (see text at paragraph 22
and 23)
Strengthening MSEB's finances.
In 1994, using its own funds, Maharashtra engaged international consultants to advise it on
how to strengthen the position of MSEB, with a view to making changes in the sector to this
effect. But the recommendations of the consultants were not heeded, and MSEB's condition
failed to improve.
Introducing institutional improvements to MSEB.
Consultants were employed by MSEB, and as a result of their advice, MSEB, inter alia,
established a Corporate Planning Unit, re-organized and improved its data processing
procedures, established an Operations and Maintenance Unit and System to monitor the
operational performance of its generation and transmission and distribution systems,
strengthened its internal audit procedures, and established the Environmental Protection Cell.
MSEB is currently proceeding with a Board-wide computerization plan including the
establishment of Board-wide and local area networks.



16
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate       Actual
(US$ million) a/     (US$ million)
Koyna IV civil works                                       149.6              127.5
Koyna IV electrical and mechanical equipment               262.6              189.3
Koyna IV engineering and administration                     42.5               14.2
Koyna IV total                                             454.7              331.0
MSEB transmission                                          508.4              229.0
MSEB distribution                                          113.1               95.9
MSEB institutional development                               2.5                0.5
MSEB components total                                      624.0              325.4
Interest during construction                               265.0                 b/
Total financing required                                 1,343.8
a/ Included physical and price contingencies
b/ Detail not provided by GOM or MSEB.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$m)            Actual (US$m)
Source           Local    Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                                    400        400           -     336.6   336.6
Co-financiers d/                        150        150            |         |
MSEB/GOM                     471         58        529       285.2      34.6   319.8
Total c/                     471-       608       1,079      285.2    -S371.2   656.4
c/ Comparisons exclude IDC - see footnote b/ above.
d/ It was envisaged at appraisal that co-financiers would need to be identified. This became un-necessary
because bids were much lower than expected, and further funding was not required.
Table 9: Analysis of Economic Costs and Benefits
No post completion quantitative analysis of financial benefits and the project return was performed, for the
reasons provide in the text at paragraphs 22 and 23.



17
Table 10a: Status of Legal Covenants (dated September 11, 1989) of Loan 3096-IN
__________________  GOI/GOMID: Special Account and S,QE to be audited nnually within 9 months of FY end.  Complied with
4.01                   GOISGOM: Ppecial Account and SOE to be audited   annuallywithin 9 months of FY end.  Complied with
4.01                   GOI/GOM: Project accounts to be audited within 9 months of FY end.              Comiplied with
Schedule 2.10 c        GOI to cause MSEB to furnish resettlement plan for persons displaced or to be displaced by   Complied with
the construction of any substation under the project
Schedule 2.6           GOI to furnish to the Bank report on all persons to be displaced by'Koyna IV by Dec.31,     Complied with.
1989, and to compensate eligible persons in accordance with provisions of MPDP 1976.  Compensation - see
Appendix C.
Paragraph 6.
Table 10b: Status of superceding Legal Covenants (dated July 8, 1992) of Loan 3498-IN
2.02 (b)               GOI to open and maintain a Special Deposit Account in dollars with the Reserve Bank of    Complied with
India.
3.04                   GOI to take actions to ensure adequate coal supplies for the efficient operation of the  Complied with
project's power plant.
4.01 (b) (ii)          GOM shall, jointly with the Bank, carry out a mid-term review in the 3rd year of the project  Performed in February
to assess oyerall progress of the project.                                      199
j ___ _Q Q Q_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10_
2.02                   GOMIMSG   B on-lending arrangement                                              Complied with
4.01 (b) (ii)          GOM: Project account to be audited and audit report to be furnished to the Bank no later  Complied with
than 9 months after FY end
4.04                   MSEB to make necessary financial arrangements for the acquisition and installation of  Complied with
HVDC tenminals required under Part A(ii) of the project
Schedule 2.2           GOM shall (a) establish a commission to review institutional arrangements in the power  (a) complied with in
sector in Maharashtra, and (b) not later than Dec. 31, 1993, discuss the findings and  1994
recommendations of the said commission with the Bank.                           (b) complied with in
1996
Schedule 2.3           GOM shall, jointly with the Bank, canry out a mid-term review in the 3rd year of the project  Performed in February
to assess overall progress of the project                                       1996
Schedule 2.3           MSEB to fumish to the Bank no later than March 31of each year, a work plan, including the  Complied with
list of distribution lines and substations to be constructed under the project in the following
year
Schedule 2.5           MSEB to implement various environmental mitigatory measures at Chandrapur, including    Complied with
inter alia, the implementation of a waste water treatment & management scheme, the
installation of a dust suppression acquisition and maintenance of various monitoring
equipment.
3.01 (iii)             MSEB to take out insurance against risks in such amounts as will be consistent with  Complied with
appropriate practices.
3.02 (i)               Ln 3498-IN: MSEB to reduce commercial receivables (less any disputed amounts) to less    Not complied with
than 2.5 months of revenue.
3.02 (ii)              MSEB to reduce commerial payables to less than 2.0 months of consumption of fuel and    Complied with
consumables, plus purchase of power.
4.02 (c)               MSEB to fumish to the Bank, certified financial statements within 9 months of FY end, and   Complied with
auditor's report within 12 months.
4.03 (a) (i)           MSEB to generate funds from intemal sources (excluding GOM subsidies) equivalent to not  Complied with
less than 20% in FY93 and FY94, and 25% from FY95 onwards, of the annual average of its
capital expenditure incurred, or expected to be incurred, for the previous, current and
following fiscal year.
4.03 (a) (ii)          MSEB to eam a retum on net fixed assets of no less than 4.5% from FY93 onwards.  Complied with
4.04                   MSEB to ensure that Debt Service Coverage is at least 1.0 in FY90/91 and 1.2 thereafter  Complied with
Schedule 2.1           MSEB to fumish to the Bank, no later than Dec. 31 of each year, annual revisions to the 5-   Complied with
year revolving capital investment and associated financing plan of MSEB



18
Table - 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            I         Comments on lack of compliance
All Bank policies were complied with, with the exception of OP/BP 10.02. The main component of the
(First) Maharashtra Power project was executed by GOMID, which typically follows government
accounting systems which are cash-based single entry systems. GOMID opened a separate budget head to
capture project-related expenditures. However, no separate project accounts were compiled by GOMID.
The financial management of GOMID, like that of any other government department, leaves much to be
desired. Any future project that the Bank might help finance will need to address this issue well in advance
of loan negotiations.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Weeks           US$ ('000)
Through Appraisal                      87.1           193.6
Appraisal-Board                        59.3            153.5
Board-Effectiveness/Supervision       219.7           605.0
Completion                             13.5            31.5
TOTAL                                 379.6           983.6
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    month/yr    No. of    Days in               Specialization (see key below)
Cycle                   Persons    field    _
Identification      08/87       3         7      PO, E, SOO
Preparation         11/87       6         4      SOO, Econ, E, PO, E, DC
Preparation         05/88       5         5      SOO, E, FA, Econ, E
Preparation         10/88       6         15     SOO, FA, FA, E, Econ, P0
Appraisal           01/89       9         14     FA, E, E, ENV, Econ, MS, Econ, FA, FA
To effectiveness    09/89       1         5      E
Stage of Project   month/yr    No. of    Days in     Specialization            Performance Rating
Cycle                   Persons    field                            Implementation    Development
Supervision 1       02/90       6         5      FA, E, E, E, A, Econ            I                S
Supervision 2       11/90       2         5      E.ENV                           I                S
Supervision 3       02/91       2         5      E, E, FA                        I                S
Supervision 4       08/91       1         5      FA                              1                S
Supervision 5       10/92       7         8      E, E, E, E, FA, FA, MS          1                S
Supervision 5       07/93       2         5      FA, FA                          1                S
Supervision 6       07/94       3         5      E,E,SOC                         2                S
Supervision 7       11/94       1         5      E                               2                S
Supervision 8       12/94       3         5      E,E,FA                          2                S
Supervision 9       12/95       3         7      E,E,FA                          2                S
Supervision 10*     03/96       6         8      E,SOC,E,FA,FA,ENV               I                S
Supervision 11      06/96       2         5      E,SOC                           I                S
Supervision 12      12/96       3         5      E,E,FA                          I                S
Supervision 13      06/97       1         5      E                               I                S
Supervision 14      01/98       2         5      E, SOC                          I                S
Supervision 15      06/98       3         6      E, E, SOC                       1                S
ICR review mssn     12/98       4                E,FA,SOC                        1                U
Key:- PO - Project officer; SOO - Senior Operations Officer; DC - Division Chief; FA - Financial analyst; E - Engineer;
MS - Management specialist; Econ - Economist; IT - Information technology specialist; ES - Energy specialist; SOC -
Sociologist; ENV - Environmental protection specialist; A - Anthropologist; S - Satisfactory; U - Unsatisfactory
* - Mid-term review



19
Annex
The Koyna Phase IV Concept
1. The proposal was to more than double the power capacity of the Koyna site with the
fourth stage development in parallel to the existing first and second stages. These draw water
from Lake Shivajisagar, the reservoir behind the existing Koyna Dam. These waters have
since the 1960s been serving Phases I, II and III, via diversionary tunnels through India's
continental divide, the mountains of the Western Ghats, westwards to the Arabian Sea
instead of eastwards to the Bay of Bengal. The Koyna Dam is located 56 km west of Karad,
and the power station site is located 25 km from Chiplun, which is on the coastal road from
Bombay to Goa. The dam is therefore situated about 350 km south of Bombay. Because of
its location at the top of the steep scarp and its orientation parallel to it, the catchment area
receives a very high rainfall averaging about 6,000 mm (about 20 feet) per year. About
eighty percent of this rain-flow occurs during the monsoon season which extends over the
period from June to October.
2. The existing Stage I and Stage II developments at Koyna consist of an intake on Lake
Shivajisagar, supplying water via twin headrace tunnels and inclined shafts to an
underground powerhouse, in which are installed eight Pelton-type generating units with a
total installed capacity of 560 MW. From the powerhouse a tailrace tunnel leads to Lake
Kolkewadi which is the forebay of Koyna Stage III which provides a further 320 MW of
generating capacity. The Stage I and II units were commissioned over the period 1962 to
1967, while Stage III units were commissioned in 1975-76. Stages I, II and III thus had a
combined capacity of 880 MW.
3. The Stage IV development parallels the existing Stages I and II, also developing the full
521 meter head between Lake Shivajisagar and Lake Kolkewadi. However the routing of the
new power conduits have been more direct than those of the previous development, which
had to accommodate implementation in stages. Koyna Stage IV involves the installation of
four additional 250 MW units driven by Francis type turbines, in a new underground
powerhouse. No additional flows have been diverted, and no extra water is utilized. The
combination of the Stage IV development along with the existing plant provides more than
twice as much capacity (1,880 MW) at the times of the system peak, but with approximately
the same energy output as previously (a small increase in energy is realized due the improved
efficiency of the new turbines and generators).



20
Appendix Al
Project review from the borrower's perspective
(Contribution by GOMID on KHEP STAGE-IV Component)
1.0  Introduction:
The World Bank granted a loan of US $ 400 million in September 1989 to GOI for
the Maharashtra Power Project IBRD loan 3096 IN. It had two components (A)
Koyna-IV for US $ 230 million and (B) MSEB for US $ 170 million. The loan
closing date was initially 31 " December 1996 and was extended in two stages viz., (i)
up to 31st December 1997 and (ii) up to 31st December 1998. This portion of
Appendix A deals with the implementation of the Koyna-IV component.
2.0   Project objectives: The objectives of the Maharashtra Power project were to
improve power supply in the western region of India and the operating efficiency of
the Board.
The Project consisted of two parts, Part(A) pertained to Govt. of Maharashtra and
Part(B) was with MSEB. As the present report is only for GOMID i.e. Part-A only,
the project objectives as detailed in Project Agreement were as under:
1 .    The construction of the fourth stage of the Koyna hydro Electric Power plant
(Koyna IV) comprising: (i) intake structure in the existing Koyna reservoir;
(ii) a 4.5 km long head race tunnel; (iii) a 1,000 Mw (4 x 250 Mw)
underground power station and ancillary structures; (iv) a 2.1 km long tail
race tunnel; (v) a 1 km long approach tunnel for access to the power plant;
and (vi) the associated 400 kV switchyard.
2.    The carrying out of detailed inspection of the existing Koyna dam and repairs,
upgrading of instrumentation and review of emergency plans as required.
3.    The utilisation of specialists services and carrying out of training, including
the review of the Project by a Panel of Experts.
These works were executed in accordance with guidelines of World Bank.
Project design - The project covered definite target of commissioning of 4 x 250
MW machines by having close monitoring. There was definite package-wise
procurement schedule. Thus, the design of project was framed in an objective
methodical manner.
3.0   Project Implementation Procedure Adopted:
The Project Agreement Schedule 1 covered details of (i) procurement of goods and
work & (ii) employment consultant's services. The contract documents for executing
works and employment of the  consultants were framed in accordance for
procurement under IBRD loan. These documents were vetted by World Bank mission
from time to time to ensure that the works get executed in accordance with World



21
Bank guidelines. The timely vetting by the  World Bank mission provided
opportunities to GOM officers to have interaction with latest procurement procedures
for execution of project of this magnitude . It is necessary to state here that world
Bank missions had scrutinized drawings, technical specifications. The World Bank
emphasized on exhaustive pre-qualification exercise which enabled participation of
competent bidders in the procurement process. Some works for equipment and civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of US $ 2,00,000 and US $ 5,00,000 were
executed by resorting to local competitive bidding procedure.
(a)   GOM have taken review of technical aspects of Koyna-IV from time to time
accordance with the help of POE. The Panel of experts consisted of 5
members, One Chairman, 2 Civil and 2 E&M members. The GOM had set up
a Steering Committee under the Chairmanship of Hon. Chief Secretary for
closely watching progress of works and resolving difficulties. This is the
measure adopted by GOM, though not specified by World Bank, for
successful completion of project.
(b)   To review the present condition of existing Koyna Dam, determine the scope
of (i) additional investigations, (ii) repairs to Koyna Dam, Dam Review Panel
was constituted. . This Dam Review panel consisted of experts of international
reputation.  Dynamic analysis of Dam  based  on maximum  credible
earthquake, studies of Hydrology with Peak Maximum Flood and under water
epoxy grouting treatment from upstream face dam block to joints were
carried out. The D.R.P. expressed that condition of Koyna Dam is safe.
(c)   GOM had revised the organizational structure for implementation of the
project Independent offices viz., Chief Engineer, Koyna Design Circle, Pune,
Koyna Construction Circle, Satara ; Koyna (E&M) Designs Circle, Koyna
E&M Construction Circle, Satara were created. The appointed staff members
were having background knowledge of implementation of Hydro Electric
Project.
(d)   GOM  furnished a plan of economic rehabilitation of persons whether
landowning or Landless affected by construction of Koyna-IV and
compensated eligible persons in accordance with the provisions of the
Maharashtra Project Displaced persons Act 1976.
(e)   After obtaining necessary forest clearance under Forest (conservation) Act
1980, the project constructed access road to the surge tank for Koyna-IV.
(f)   GOMID established a thorough reporting system  to World Bank and
monitored progress of work by using computerized monitoring system.
3.2 Operational experience: The World Bank reviewed progress of work through
several missions. The World Bank mission used to inspect physically progress of
works, discussed with project officers both of department and contractors and
suggested areas where specific attention of implementation authorities is required.
The monthly progress reports which were very punctually submitted to the world



22
Bank helped world Bank to take an overall stock about progress of work. A very
heartening feature of Mission visits was their professional approach. This fetched
good results particularly in respect of following elements:
a)    Epoxy grouting treatment from upstreamn face of Dam to monolith block joints for
control of leakage in the Koyna Dam. This reduced leakage which was more than
7,000 liters per minute (1pm) to less than 1,500 1pm Treatment was given to heavily
leaking block joints (more than 200 1pm).
b)    Fixation of contracts for civil works critically monitored by World Bank. The World
Bank scrutinized drawings for civil works of water conductor system of Koyna-IV.
The World Bank readily accepted the separation of supply of steel plates 1 (ICB-3) -for
Pressure Shaft lining, floating independent package for Design and supply of
Hydraulic Hoist and gates.
c)    The Department officers could get access to the latest developments in Geo-technical
field through visit of GOMID Engineers to Norway, Canada. M/s. Golder Associates
the technical consultants had reviewed proposed support treatment for caverns and
tunnels in 1992. They provided geo-technical training, geo-technical advice and
design review. Thus, the support treatment of Koyna-IV water conductor water
system provided is in tune with latest development in this field.
d)    The World Bank helped GOMID in respect of following E&M works.
i)    Selection of proper and efficient Francis Turbine of such a high head and
large capacity from the global offers received was a very crucial job. The
World Bank held meeting at Washington (1993) and had discussions with
various bidder, SGI Consultants, GOMID Officers and advised proper
selection.
ii)    Very safe and proper selection of alternative of Gas Insulated Switchgear
(GIS) as compared to open air switch gear (1995).
iii)   Selection of 400 KVA XLPE cable in comparison to GITB (1996).
e)    The World Bank helped in making paymnents for foreign contractors by following
direct payment procedure.
f)    The periodic review progress by World Bank missions brought out following
important points.
g)   (i)The delay in fixation of contracts for E&M main equipment (In May 1995) and the
inherent interface with civil works in respect of erection of units made it obligatory
to revise key dates for completion of various elements of civil works and grant of
corresponding extension in contract period for civil works.



23
(ii)The World Bank upheld the proposal of having underwater lake tap for connecting
water conductor of Koyna Stage-IV to Koyna lake. Initially, it was proposed to
deplete the lake and have final lake blast from top. This has helped in having transfer
of technology to India for using lake tapping method for generation of power
wherever pen stocks are not embedded in body of the dam.
(iii)The World Banks insistence for economic rehabilitation provided new insight to
the issue. Reviews of rehabilitation works by World Bank mission was important in
accelerating actions. The environmental aspects were also duly taken care of.
h)    As per covenant, the accounts were maintained in accordance with sound accounting
system. All records, invoices bills etc. evidencing expenditure were retained. The
Accountant General had carried out audit inspections and issued certificates. The
adherence to proper accounting system enabled GOM Officers to have full-fledged
updated figures of component-wise utilisation of loan figures.
4.0   Relationship between Borrower and World Bank.
4.1   The relationship between Borrower and Bank were very cordial and the
suggestions of Bank missions were implemented for successful completion of
Project. It may be mentioned here that in an underground project of this
magnitude and having such a wide time span, slippage in progress of works
has to be taken as an inevitable feature. The requirement of extra time in civil
part were mainly; because of (i) the occurrence of breccia instead of good
basalt. This called for extra time for excavation and subsequent R.C.C. lining
for HRT, Head Surge. (ii) requirement of having pilot excavation for pressure
shaft by using boretec machine and subsequent laying of rails etc. The
inclination of 58 degree instead of so far adopted 45 degree for pressure shafts
called for adoption of stringent safety measures and consequent extra
requirement of time for pressure shaft lining. (iii) execution of additional
works such as cooling water tank, discharge header tunnel in power house.
4.2   The deployment of latest type of equipment for e.g. (i) Francis Turbines of
compact size with runner removal passage, (ii) G.I.S. forces on Transformer
Hall slab etc. called for use of latest software. The tolerance limits such as
deflection due to forces are very small. Availability of POE, whose reports
were reviewed by World Bank time to time, helped in effectively solving
problems.
4.3   The clause of imposition of liquidated damages for non completion of
elements in time proved to be a very stringent provision. The World Bank
mission realised this and objectively viewed the difficulties and concluded
that the reasons for delay beyond control of contractors. This unavoidable
delay was subsequently ratified by GOM by granting extension in time limits
to the civil contractors.
4.4   The approach of World Bank missions about the issues faced by GOM was
practical and objective and the World Bank was satisfied that sincere efforts



24
are being made for completion of project. The World Bank granted extension
twice. Thus, though by the time extended loan limit of 31't December 1998,
no machine was spun, their completion was very much in view (i) first
machine (Unit No.4) was mechanically spun on the 315t March 1999 and (ii)
the other units are in advance stage to get complete by year 2000. It may be
recalled here that Task manager, at the time of final lake blast 13h March 199
sent a letter which said 'our Koyna Project'. This is speaking example of
healthy relationship between borrower and client.
5.0   Financial Aspects:
5.1   SAR Provisions: The total estimated cost of the project of appraisal stage
1989) was estimated to be as under (c.f. Page No.34 of SAR).
Sr.  Particulars   Local      Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign  Total
No.                Rs. Million  Rs.     Rs.        US       US        US
Million    Million    Million   Million  Million
1   Civil works    945.8      602.2     1548.0    65.8      40.3     106.1
2   Equipment      897.8      1817.2    2715.0    62.5       123.5    186.0
3   Consulting     32.8       4.2       37.0       0.3      2.2      2.5
services
4   Engineering    405.0      0.0       405.0      27.7      0.0     27.7
and
Administration
Total         2281.4     2423.6    4705.0    156.3    166.0   322.0
The total cost including physical contingencies was estimated as under (c.f. SAR Page
No.108 and 109).
Particulars.         Total (Rs.Million) Break down of total cost (Rs. Million)
CIVIL         2338.9           56.8       91.4      1.4       149.6
Equipment            4315.8           175.5      44.4     42.5       262.6
Consulting services    56.4           3.1        0.4      0.0        3.5
Engineering and      608.9            0.0        38.0     0.0        38.0
Administration
Land for construction  14.9           0.0        1.0      0.0        1.0
Total:               7334.8           235.5      175.3    44.0       454.8
(The rate of exchange at Appraisal Stage: Rs. 15 = 1 US $).



25
Expenditure incurred up to January, 1999 end are as under.
Rs.Million  U.S.Dollar Million.
Civil Works       4440.300        137.280
E&M Works         6990.325        193.734
Total:             11430.625     331.014
It may be mentioned here that there will be some expenditure in year 1999-2000 and beyond
towards completion of remaining works of KHEP STAGE-IV. It would be to the extent of
Rs.300 Million for Civil woks (U.S.Dollar 8 Million) and for Electrical works, it would be
Rs.1,200 Million (U.S.Dollar 32 Million).
Lessons learned
The pre-qualification exercise for deciding eligible contractors, finalisation of technical
specifications was a time consuming job sufficient progress in respect of finalisation of
technical specifications is required to be made before posing a project for external assistance.
A clause to provide for a Dispute Resolution Board would have been useful.
The provision of imposition of liquidated damages is very stringent to be implemented
Some lenient provisions are necessary for making contractors to work as per guidance of
Department especially in respect of achieving interface dates.
Very intimate relations between (i) Borrower and client, (ii) wings of execution civil and
electrical are essential for having constructive approach in successful completion of
underground Hydro Electric Project of this magnitude.
Conclusion
Execution of the KHEP STAGE-IV can be considered as a successful story in the history of
externally aided projects. This was possible; because of close monitoring of progress of
project by Panel of Experts; Steering Committee; dedicated staff; World Bank missions, and
healthy relations between executing agencies.



26
Appendix A2
Project review from the borrower's perspective
(Contribution by MSEB on Transmission and Distribution Components)
A.  Preface
This is MSEB's perspective part of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for first
Maharashtra Power Project covered under financing of IBRD Loan 3096-IN for an amount
equivalent of US$ 400 million. The loan proposal was appraised in 1989, contract agreement
for which was signed on 11th September 1989, and it became effective on 14th December
1989. The scheduled loan closing date was 31st December 1996.
First Maharashtra Power Project has been an important and ambitious project having multiple
targets for the executing agencies (Govt. of Maharashtra (GOM) and Maharashtra State
Electricity Board (MSEB)). As it appears in the proceeding paras., the basic physical
objectives were to improve power supply and operating efficiency in MSEB and in the
Western Regional Power System.
The contents of this part of the ICR were prepared during January 1999-March 1999 and
include references from documents including Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for Loan 3096-
IN, Loan and Project Agreements, aide memoires, site reports and inputs received from
concerned groups of MSEB involved with the implementation of this project.
B.  Project Objectives
This project objective was to improve power supply and operating efficiency in MSEB and in
the Western Region Power systems through: (a) expanding regional peaking capacity at least
cost; (b) improving utilisation of existing generating capacity; (c) strengthening and
upgrading MSEB's transmission and distribution systems; (d) recommending ways to
improve load despatch in the Western Region and rationalize bulk power regional trading; (e)
improving MSEB's retail power tariff structure; (f) strengthening MSEB's finances; and (g)
introducing institutional improvements in MSEB. Out of the above items (a) and (b) were
implemented by GOM through construction of Koyna Stage-IV, whereas others were within
the scope of MSEB. However, item (d) was subsequently deleted due to utilization of funds
meant for the consultancy part by GOM.
IBRD Loan 3096-IN of US$ 400 M consists of US$230 M for Koyna Stage IV (implemented
by Govt. of Maharashtra) and US$170 M for transmission lines associated with evacuation of
Koyna Stage IV as well as various transmission schemes (implemented by MSEB).
This Implementation Completion Report is furnished for MSEB's scope of work included in
the project. The project description for MSEB Component can be further
elaborated/described as under:
(a)   The acquisition and installation of equipment and materials for the Board's
transmission and distribution investment programme.



27
(b)   The construction of 400kV transmission lines to connect Koyna IV to the
existing transmission system of Maharashtra.
(c)   The implementation of a plan to strengthen the Board's operations and
finances and for managerial development including setting up of performance
monitoring system, management accounting, streamlining internal procedures
and accelerating development of data processing systems.
(d)   The utilization of specialists' services and carrying out training.
C.  Achievement of Objectives
(i)   The first and prime-most object (of supply and erection of equipment and
material for MSEB's five-year transmission and distribution investment
programme) has been successfully achieved by way of commissioning all the
49 Extra High Voltage (EHV) schemes utilising the equipment procured
against the loan. The total loan amount of US$107.33M was utilised before
closing date of the loan which was 31st December, 1996.
(ii)   The construction of 400 kV transmission lines to connect Koyna Stage IV
Power Station to transmission system of Maharashtra has also been achieved
by commissioning 400 kV Koyna - Karad D/C Line (via New Koyna
substation) and 400 kV Koyna IV Lonikand D/C line well in advance of
commissioning of Koyna Stage IV Power Station.
(iii)  M/s.Worley International Ltd. were appointed by MSEB for availing the
consultancy services in respect of Planning of distribution network. The
software and hardware required for the purpose was also acquired. Further
sample distribution reinforcement schemes were also prepared for two
districts. The methodology suggested by the consultant is being adopted for
distribution system planning.
D.  Project Cost Estimate
1.  Transmission Project
The estimated project cost (during loan appraisal) was Rs.9,570 Million. The revised
up-to-date cost works out to Rs.10,235.2 Millions (US$324.92 Million). The up-to-date cost
includes Rs.684.30 million which is the cost for evacuation of power from Koyna Stage IV
by 400kV lines.
In December 1989, the World Bank sanctioned a loan of US$400 Million under this
Loan No.3096-IN. It consisted of US$230 Million for Koyna Stage IV and US$170 Million
for transmission lines associated with evacuation of Koyna Stage IV Power Station as well as
various other transmission schemes.
MSEB surrendered US$62.67 Million worth loan due to devaluation of Indian Rupee.
Thus for transmission projects the balance loan amount was US$107.33 Million.



28
2.   Consultancy Services
The initial estimates of consultancy services were Rs.30.00 Million (US$2. 10
Million). However the revised scope of consultant's services worked out to Rs. 15.624
Millions (US$0.496 M).
E) Implementation Schedule
1.   The transmission schemes covered in the Maharashtra Power Project-I were
commissioned as scheduled and their commissioning dates are indicated in Annexure- 1.
2.   Consultancy Services
The works of all the consultancy services undertaken by the consultants have been
completed, as per the scheduled time frame.
MSEB secured consultants' services of M/s.Worley International Limited, New
Zealand, in December 1994.
The consultant has submitted the inception report in the month of March 1995 which
included:
(a) Network analysis
(b) Design review
(c) Operational view
(d) Data Base development
(e) Skill Transfer
(f) Implementation
(g) Reporting
The consultant has submitted the following:
(i) Design Review Report in the month of July 1995;
(ii)   Master plan for the implementation of Network Infornation Management
System in the month December 1995. They have also supplied Power System
Simulator (PSSU) Software required for Distribution Network Analysis;
(iii) Design Report for District of Solapur and Parbhani in January 1996; and
(iv)   Final Report (preliminary) and final report in the month of March 1996 and
May 1996 respectively.
The Consultants have also trained MSEB engineers in India as well as in New Zealand.



29
F.  Design Features
1.   Transmission Project
MSEB has already acquired sufficient experience of installation and commissioning of
EHV transmission lines and substations including procurement of materials. All the
technical specifications of supply packages were prepared, tenders floated, bids received and
evaluated and contracts were awarded by MSEB's Project Design Office at Mumbai headed
by the Chief Engineer (Trans. Planning). Similarly, the project implementation was executed,
by MSEB's Chief Engineer, 400kV Construction Zone, Nagpur for 400kV schemes and
Chief Engineer EHV Construction Zone, Pune for other Transmission Scheme. MSEB has
adequate and experienced inhouse staff for operation and maintenance (O&M) activities of
EHV Lines and Substations.
G.  Lessons Learnt
1.   Transmission Projec
In case of procurement of Bersimis conductor, the World Banlk's approach regarding validity
of the offers, resulted in some delay. It may be noted that the bidders do not have any reason
to go on extending validity of their offers unless asked for. Therefore World Bank s action of
declaring procurement of part quantity of conductor as misprocurement could have been
avoided. (This has resulted into loan amount being slashed down from US$124 Millions to
US$107.33 Millions).
2.   Consultancy Services
MSEB's association with M/s.Worley, International Ltd. has been of immense
benefit.
Several specific lessons can be drawn from the project that has both operational and
strategic implications for similar projects likely to be implemented in future.
(i) A sound financial health is key element to the success of stability.
(ii)   The procurement cycle right from starting of the issue of bid documents to the
stage of the award of the contract simplified and shortened.
H.  Performance of Co-financiers
There was no co-financier for this project.
I.   Borrower's Performance
MSEB's performance as far as execution of project components covered under
Maharashtra Power Project was satisfactory. All 49 Nos. Transmission Schemes have been
commissioned.



30
The works of consultancy services have been undertaken as per schedule and to the
satisfaction of MSEB.
K. Evaluation of Bank's Performance
The Bank has adequately assisted MSEB in upbringing the physical tasks of
Maharashtra Power Project-i. Bank provided number of visits of supervisory/review
missions. These efforts of World Bank have undoubtly contributed towards MSEB's
attempts for timely realisation of project objectives.
The World Bank was consistently involved right from the project preparation to the
project completion. The relations between MSEB and the Bank officials were quite cordial.
Frequent reviews undertaken by the Bank missions throughout the tenure of the project have
helped MSEB in a way to appreciate and adopt broader sectoral concerns in their operations.
The performance of the Bank from the project preparation through the project completion
stage was satisfactory. The involvement of Banks delegates during their supervisory/revielv
missions and through correspondence and communication has always been appreciable and
has contributed enough while implementing this project.
However, Bank can render more realistic functions by way of giving due
considerations for the conditions prevailing in a country like India where sometimes some
things are in contrast and not comparable/compatible to the conditions/environments as
experienced and viewed by the Bank.
L.  Plan adopted for Operation and Maintenance Phase of the Project
The transmission lines and substations covered under the project were commissioned
as scheduled. These lines and substations after commissioning were handed over to the
respective superintending engineers, EHV O&M Circles located at
Nagpur/Chandrapur/Amravati/ Parli/ Nashik/Pune/Karad/Panvel/Kalwa. O&M of EHV
Lines and Substations is a day to day business of MSEB and no special performance
indicators are rrequired to be used to monitor the operational and developmental impact of
the schemes covered under this project
The overall transmission system of MSEB is quite healthy.
M. List of Enclosures
(i) Name of the scheme and date of commissioning     Annex. 1
(ii) Updated project cost summary and Finance Plan   Annex II



31
APPENDIX A2
ANNEX I
Sr.                         Name of the Scheme                        Date of completion
No.                                                                     of the scheme
1.   Augmentation of transformer capacity at Chandrapur substation       Nov. 94
lx315 MVA, 400/220kV
2.   Augmentation of transformer capacity at 400kV Koradi substation      8.4.94
lx315 MVA, 400/220kV
3.   Erection of 400kV Babhleshwar-Dhule D/C line and establishment of   24.11.95
400kV S/S at Dhule
4.   LILO on existing 400kV Babhleshwar-Kalwa line at Padghe (3 Kms)      9.6.94
5.   LILO on existing 400kV Lonikand-Kalwa line at Padghe (93 Kms)       28.3.97
6.   Stringing of 2nd CKt. on 400kV Babhleshwar-Kawla D/C tap to 400kV   May 96
Padghe S/S (46 Kms)
7.   400kV Koyna-Karad D/C line (80 Kms)                                 Jan. 99
8.   400kVKoyna-Lonikand D/C Line (180 Kms)                              Feb.98
9.   Establishment of 400kV Kharghar S/S                                 26.3.99
10.  Establishment of 220kV Malharpeth S/S                                17.3.92
11.  Establishment of 220kV S/S at Chandrapur MIDC                        26.3.93
12.  Establishment of 220kV Barshi S/S                                   13.12.91
13.  Establishment of 220kV Jejuri S/S                                   18.11.92
14.  Establishment of 220kV Alephata S/S                                  18.3.93
15.  Establishment of 220 kV Loteparashuram S/S                           31.3.92
16.  Establishment of 220kV Badnera S/S                                   22.3.94
17.  Establishment of 220kV Jeur S/S                                     11.11.92
18.  Establishment of 220kV Baramati S/S                                 12.12.93
19.  Establishment of 220kV Ichalkaranji S/S                              7.9.95
20.  Establishment of 220kV Boisar S/S                                    22.3.96
21.  Establishment of 220kV Murud S/S                                     30.1.93
22.  a) Establishment of 220kV Malegaon S/S                               8.12.95
b) Establishment of 220kV Kharepatan S/S                             3.6.95
23.  220kV D/C line between Uran & Kharghar                               10.8.98
24.  Establishment of 220kV Nerul S/S                                     31.3.95
25.  Establishment of 220kV Peth S/S                                      28.3.96
26.  Establishment of 220kV Halkami S/S                                  23.12.96
27.  Establishment of 220kV Kanhan S/S                                   27.10.96



32
28.  Establishment of 132kV Palghar S/S                                   18.2.95
29.  Establishment of 1 1OkV Kavathe-Mahankal S/S                         30.3.94
30.  Establishment of 220kV Kurkumbh S/S                                 20.10.93
31.  Establishment of 132kV Kothrud S/S                                   31.3.93
32.  11 OkV Dudhganga-Radhanagari line (15 Km)                            3.4.95
33.  Establishment of 132kV Shiroli S/S                                   8.3.93
34.  Establishment of 132kV Dindori S/S                                   24.1.94
35.  Establishment of 132kV Kharadi S/S                                  21.12.96
36.  Establishment of 220kV Vita S/S                                     20.12.96
37.  Establishment of 132kV Dusarbid S/S                                  18.8.93
38.  Establishment of 132kV Kardha S.S                                    4.1.94
39.  Establishment of 132kV Shirala S/S                                  23/10/96
40.  Establishment of 132kV Mangalvedha S/S                               31.3.98
41.  Establishment of 132kV Taloda S/S                                    2.9.92
42.  Establishment of 132kV Bhoom S/S                                     12.6.92
43.  Establishment of 132kV Shevgaon S/S                                  6.9.94
44.  Establishment of 11 OkV Diaganchi S/S                                30.3.95
45.  Establishment of 132kV Takii S/S                                     21.1.93
46.  Establishment of 132kV Yaola S/S                                     27.3.97
47.  Establishment of 132kV Warwatbalkal S/S                              19.3.94
48.  Establishment of 132kV Buldhana S/S                                  7.10.93
49.  Establishment of 132kV Ajgaon S/S                                    23.3.95



33
APPENDIX A2
ANNEX II
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Exchange Rate: Rs. 31.5 per US$
MSEB Investment                  Rs. (in Millions)            US$ (in Millions)
Local     Foreign  Total     Local   Foreign  Total
TRANSMISSION
(a) Equipment & Material   6064.92     66.30    6131.22   192.55   2.10    194.65
for Transmission
(b) Erection of lines & S/S   613.12     -       613.12    19.46    -      19.46
(c) Engineering &         468.86                 468.86    14.88           14.88
Administration
DISTRIBUTION
(a) Equipment & Material   2567.00              2567.00    81.49           81.49
for Transmission
(b) Erection of lines & S/S    256.70            256.70    8.15             8.15
(c) Engineering&          198.30                  198.30    6.29            6.29
Administration
CONSULTING                             15.62       15.62           0.50     0.50
SERVICES**
TOTAL (I + I)           10168.90       66.30    10235.20  322.82   2.10    324.92
**Portion from unallocated loan amount.
Note: 1) Item I (b) includes local contracts financed by WB (10.23M) and MSEB
2) Item 11 (b) includes local contracts financed by MSEB.
FINANCE PLAN
Exchange Rate: Rs. 31.5 per US$
Funding                Rs. (in Millions)                 US$ (in Millions)
Source
Local      Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign        Total
MSEB           6854.31         -       6854.31   217.59       -        217.59
IBRD           3314.59       66.30     3380.89   105.23     2.10       107.33
TOTAL         10168.90       66.30    10235.20   322.82     2.10       324.92
Against total loan amount of 124 M US$, two packages for Bersimis
conductor worth 16.67 M US$ could not be finalised and hence this
amount is reduced to 107.330 M US$.



34
Appendix B
Environmental Impact Issues9
1. Koyna scheme    The environmental impact of the fourth phase of development of the
Koyna hydroelectric scheme was judged at appraisal to be negligible because no new
reservoir was required and all the works were to be undergroundl, except for the small (l/2
hectare) pothead yard where the 400 kV cables are brought up to ground level and connected
to the commencement of the transmission line. The scheme has been built as envisaged. In
order to minimize any adverse effect of the construction operations on the environment,
GOMID undertook to restore all construction-affected areas to an environmentally sound
condition by adequate afforestation, and re-afforestation, in the event that any trees had to be
felled, and appropriate treatment to minimize the visual effects of quarries and excavated
rock dumping areas. These requirement were built into the civil works contracts, which had
been approved by the Bank, and which included specifications for environmental treatment
and bill of quantity items.
2. GOMID will ensure that this work is carried out to the high standards already evident on
the portions of the Koyna site, which are associated with Phases I, II and III of the
development. GOMID has formed an eleven member-strong Environmental Administrative
Committee for Koyna Stage IV, which will advise on the work of landscaping, afforestation,
etc. It consists of nine members drawn from the Central Water Commission (New Delhi),
Nagpur's Branch, the Directorate of Geodetic Survey Department, (Satara office), the Forest
Department, Karad, the Social Welfare Department, the Public Health Department. Two
other members are the Retired Deputy Director, Horticulture Department, Ratnagiri and the
Editor of the Koyna Express, Koynanagar. The work of landscaping, afforestation etc. in the
project area will be carried out through the Forest Department. The Forest Department has
prepared and submitted an estimate for afforestation, landscaping, muck area development
etc. This has been approved by GOM, and funds have been reserved appropriately. GOMID
has a dedicated site staff, who will ensure completion of the implementation of the work as
described. However, SAR is budgeting resources for a short follow-up mission to the site in
late FY2000, when the status of the work will be reviewed.
3. Transmission and distribution component.   This component consisted of about
1,000 km of transmission lines at voltages of 132 kV to 400 kV. These lines needed about
7,000 hectares of land for right-of-way for which MSEB was require to obtain clearance of
the Ministry of Revenue and Forests, GOM, and of the Ministry of Environment and Forest,
GOI. As covenanted, MSEB furnished the Bank, with evidence that such clearances had
been obtained for all the transmission lines prior to their erection. At appraisal it was noted
that MSEB had to deal with issues involving environmental protection on a number of fronts,
and that because these activities were dispersed throughout different units in MSEB, there
9EA Category rating "C".
10 The construction of the intake to bring water from the existing Koyna reservoir into the Stage IV head race
tunnel was performed entirely underground (see text, paragraph 30).



35
was no systematic and coordinated approach. It was thus agreed that MSEB would
establish an Environmental and Forest Affairs Unit.
4. MSEB improved on this agreed approach. A technical assistance component to strengthen
MSEB's environmental capabilities, including the employment of international consulting
expertise, was financed under loan 3498-IN for Chandrapur Unit 7. The consultant began work
in September, 1994, and the study and training was completed in 1996. MSEB has since taken
a pro-active approach to the environmental management activities included in the technical
assistance, and has implementing these actions at all its thermal power stations, not just at
Chandrapur. MSEB has established an Environmental Protection Cell (EPC), whose efforts
to-date have included various environmental impacts studies, and where appropriate the
implementation of the results. These have included coal quality impacts on power station
financial and environmental performance, comparison of upstream and downstream
environmental controls, alternative boiler technologies and an optimization analysis of coal
washer usage and location.
5. Several environmental management activities have been initiated by the EPC, including:
water management systems redesign and construction for "zero discharge" of effluent; air
emissions control improvements; ash utilization studies and pilot projects; occupational
health and safety audits, risk ratings and occupational assessments; institution of a safety
audit and safety rating system; environmental audits; environmental data base; dispersion
modeling; disaster management plans; energy conservation for pollution.
6. MSEB has adopted an Environment Health Safety Policy, inter alia, with the
objective to achieve zero water discharges from its several thermal power stations by the year
2000. The various effluents at the power stations are collected and after treatment the water
is recovered and recycled for appropriate re-use. Wet ash is collected in
compartmentalized lagoons, settled, and the clear water is available for recycling and reuse.
At Chandrapur (capacity 2,400 MW), the objective is close to being reached, and in the year
1998/9, 11 million cubic meters of water were recovered from the ash slurry, which is the
amount of water required for 250 MW of annual generation.
7. To prevent fly-ash from being wind-blown, MSEB has planted over 2 million trees on
about 1,000 hectares of thermal power station grounds.



36
Appendix C
Land Acquisition and Resettlement and Rehabilitation Issues
Background
1.  This Appendix relates to the analysis of land acquisition and resettlement elements of
the project and its implementation achievement as on the loan closing date of December 31,
1998.
Koyna IV - Resettlement and Rehabilitation
2.   Construction of the Koyna IV power plant necessitated the acquisition of 571 hectares
of land from 530 land-owners residing in five villages of Satara and Ratnagiri districts in
Maharashtra. Of these affected persons, six families also lost their houses. The land was
used for construction of approach roads, power house, switch yard, muck yard, contractors
colony, etc. The famnilies were compensated for loss of lands, houses and other assets in
accordance with the "Maharashtra Project Displaced Persons Act". In response to Bank's
supervision mission's recommendations in 1992, GOM carried out a socioeconomic survey
to assess the living standards of those affected families. The objective of the survey was
establish data about the living standards of the affected persons, and to detennine the type of
additional assistance required to improve the living standards in the case of those who were
still living below minimum living standards. Against this background, this Appendix to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared to assess the implementation
progress of R&R activities including the implementation of economic rehabilitation program.
Summary of Implementation Performance
3.  In order to assess the performance of the borrower for satisfactory completion of R&R
program, an overall progress on different activities was assessed as on loan closing date of
December 31, 1998. By that date the GOM had completed the payment of compensation to
affected persons and resettled the 6 displaced families as mentioned in paragraph 6 of the
Project Agreement between IBRD and State of Maharashtra, dated September 11, 1989.
The economic rehabilitation program prepared in response to Bank's supervision mission's
recommendation is under implementation, and GOM has assured the Bank that it will
complete the implementation by June 1999, and that adequate funds have been earmarked for
this purpose. The key activities that have been successfully completed by the loan closing
date include: (a) payment of compensation for loss of land and other assets; (b) relocation of
six displaced families in the near-by area by offering alternative house plots; (c) offering
employment in the project to 31 percent of 181 targeted persons; (d) extension of assistance
to 97 percent of 110 targeted familiars to start income generation activities; (e) offering
assistance to 70 percent of 388 targeted families for improvement and upgrading of houses;
and, (f) upgrading and improvement of various civic amenities in three affected villages. The
summary of R&R activates are shown in Table 1.



37
Table 1: Status of Resettlement Activities
No     Activity                     Target            Achievement         Remarks
Enumeration                  Through           Completed           A list of 443
consultants and                       famnilies was
district                              prepared
administration
2      Payment of compensation for    530              *   530 (100%)
loss of land and other assets
3      Physical relocation          6                  *  6 (100%)
4      Assistance for house upgrading   388 households  *  262 were given   The balance
part assistance    works are
(67%)           expected to be
*  8 have          completed by
completed the    June 30, 1999
upgrading (2%)
5      Income generation Activities    110             107 (97%)          The remaining
(Below the poverty line)                                           three families will
receive assistance
by January 31,
1999
6.     Employment in the project    181                56 (31%)
6      Civic amenities                                 *  Intemal roads    The construction
.  Community       of civic amenities
toilets         are at various
*  Upgrading of    stages of
water supply    completion and
schemes         expected to be
*  Open drains     completed by
*  Upgrading of    March 31, 1999
community
centers
*  Upgrading of
school buildings
4.   Payment of Compensation and Relocation: At the time of appraisal, it was
envisaged that R&R included payment of compensation for loss of assets and the provision
of alternative house sites to those who were physically displaced. In addition, the provision
of employment opportunities in the project, subject to availability and suitability was also
envisaged. The project authorities have confirmed that all persons who had lost lands and
houses have been paid compensation, and those six displaced families were provided
alternative sites and that they had completed the construction of alternative houses. As
regards employment, 31 percent of 181 identified persons were offered employment, and the
remainder were supposed to be provided as and when the vacancies arise. However, due to
ban on new recruitment by GOM, other families could not be provided employment
subsequently.
Economic Rehabilitation Action Plan
5.   Socio-economic survey was carried out by GOM with the assistance of local
consultants in 1995-96, to assess the living standards of affected persons and to identify the
type of assistance required for those who are still living below minimum living standards. In



38
order to extend the assistance, GOM brought out a Government Resolution (GR) dated
December 9, 1997 detailing the economic rehabilitation assistance. This reflects the
commitment of GOM to extend assistance to those who are living below minimum living
standards. The type of economic rehabilitation assistance include: (a) housing assistance
(Rs. 15,000 for agricultural families and Rs. 10,000 for non-agricultural families) to those
PAPs who are living in kuccha and semi-puce houses in order to upgrade or undertake the
repairs of their houses; (b) assistance (up to Rs.55,000) for creation or upgrading of irrigation
facilities to those landed PAPs who do not have adequate irrigation facilities; (c) assistance
upto Rs.18,000 to landless PAPs living below the poverty line to start income generation
activities with a view to raise their living standards; and, (d) construction or upgrading the
basic civic amenities in the affected villages as per "Maharashtra Project Affected Persons
Act".
6.   The implementation of the Economic Rehabilitation Program was commenced only
during middle of 1998 and is at various stages of implementation at the time of loan closing
date (Table 2).
Table 2: Summary of Implementation of Economic Rehabilitation Program
Target as per  Achievement   Balance as on  Likely date of
Details                  Implementati  as on          December 31, completing
on Plan      December 31,   1998           Target
1998
1 Housing Upgrading    388             262 (67.%)     26
30-June-99
(a) No. PAPs to be given  388          262 (67%)      26
assistance
(b) No. PAPs who have    388           8 (2%)         280
started repairs
(c )No. of PAPs completed    3.66      1.71           1.95
repairs
(d) Total (Rs.million)
II. Income Generation
Activities                110  9%3Ja319
(a) No. of PAPs to be given   110      107(97%)       3             Jan-31-99
assistance               2.03          2.03 (100%)
(b) Total Cost (Rs. Million)
III. Civic Amenities
4.75          1.00          3.75           31-Mar-99
(a)Total Cost (Rs. Million)  I_I_ I                                I _
7.   (a) Assistance to improve the housing conditions: Based on the existing housing
conditions, 388 families were identified for extending the assistance. A large number of
families (262) were released first installment and the reports and upgrading are in progress.
Only 8 households have completed the repairs or upgrading to their houses. It was expected
that these activities will be completed by June 30, 1999.



39
8.   (b) Assistance to improve or upgrade irrigation facilities: This component was yet
to be started at the time of the loan closing date. The project officials informed that digging
of wells or lift irrigation schemes are not suitable in this area. The lift irrigation scheme was
found to be not feasible from the point of view of recurring expenditure on maintenance.
The project officials in consultation with the PAPs are exploring various other options to
provide assistance to upgrade their irrigation facilities. Alternatively, the option of providing
assistance to start self employment activities in lieu of irrigation facilities is being looked
into.
9.   (c ) Income generation activities: All those landless families living below the poverty
line were given assistance to start self employment activities. Out of 110 families identified
under this program, 107 families have been offered assistance to start the income generation
activities. The assistance mostly include for dairy, goat/sheep rearing, tailoring and setting
up of a shop. This program was implemented with the assistance of a local NGO- Shramjivi
Janata Sahayyak Mandal. The details of different type of activities funded under Economic
Rehabilitation Program is provided in Table 3.
Table 3: Details of Income Generation Activities
No   Type of Activity                No. of beneficiaries
1    Dairy                           72
2    Goat/sheep rearing              13
3.    Grocery shop                   3
4    Tailoring                       10
5    Others*                         10
I Total                         107
o others include: restaurant, dry fish shop, welding,
photo studio, etc.
10. (d) Improvement of Civic amenities: The implementation of civic amenities is at
various stages. The improvement of facilities was undertaken in three affected villages-
Vasti, Dicholi and Manainagar. The facilities undertaken include: internal roads, cross
drainage works, open sewers, community toilets, upgrading of water schemes, upgrading of
primary schools, etc. The estimated cost of implementing civil amenities has been estimated
at Rs.4.75 million. The details of physical and financial progress for various activities is
shown in Table 4. It is expected that all civic amenities will be completed by March 31,
1999.



40
Table 4: Details of Progress on Implementation of Civic Amenities
Target as per    Achieved at  Balance on  Likely date of
Implementation  December   December  completing of
Details                           Plan             31, 1998     31, 1998    targets
Masonry Gutters (open sewers)
(a) Physical (meters)             1200             350 (35.%)   850         31-Mar-99
(b) Financial (Rs.million)        0.65             0.15 (23%)   0.50
2      New Internal Road
(a) Physical (Meters)             40                            40          31-Mar-99
(b) Financial (Rs. Million)       0.15                          0.15
3      Strengthening of Roads
(a) Physical (Meters)             2350                          2350        28-Feb-99
(b) Financial ( Rs. Million)      0.76             0.29 (38%)   0.47
4      Retaining Wall
(a) Physical ( Cubic meter)       768              545 (71%)   223          28-Feb-99
(b) Financial (Rs. Million)       0.73             0.51 70%)   0.22
5      Cross Drainage Works
(a) Physical (Numbers)            14               2 (14%)      12          28-Feb-99
(b) Financial (Rs. Million)       0.31             0.05 (16%)   0.26
6      Asphalting of Internal roads
(a) Physical (Meters)             2095                          2095        31-Mar-99
(b) Financial (Rs. Million)       0.68                          0.68
7      Community toilets
(a) Physical (Numbers)            13                            13          31-Mar-99
(b) Financial (Rs. Million)       0.38                          0.38
8      Upgrading of Water Supply Scheme
(a) Physical (Number)             3                             3           28-Feb-99
(b) Financial (Rs. Million)       0.69                          0.69
9.     Repair/construction of Community
Center                            2                             2           31-Mar-99
(a) Physical ( Number)            0.30                          0.30
(b) Financial (Rs. Million)
10     Upgrading of Primary School
(a) Physical (Number)             1                             1           31-Mar-99
(b) Financial (Rs. Million)       0.10                          0.10
Total
(a) Physical                                                                31-Mar-99
(b) financial (Rs. Million)       4.75             1.00         3.75
11.  Action Program for Completing Balance Activities: The R&R activities agreed
under the project include payment of compensation for loss of lands and other asserts and
providing alternative house sites to those who had displaced from their houses. The payment
of compensation and providing alternative sites to those displaced by the project have been
completed. GOM has agreed during the supervision of the project to formulate and
implement a Economic Rehabilitation Program to those PAPs who are still living below
minimum living standards. This plan is currently under implementation and the following
activities were outstanding as on loan closing date (December 31, 1999):- (a) payment of first
and second installment to 126 households and second installment to 254 households for
house upgrading or improvement; (b) finalization and implementation of assistance to
improve or upgrade the irrigation facilities; (c) assistance to three households to start income
generation activities; and, (d) completion of on-going and proposed civic amenities in the
affected villages.



41
12. The GOM had committed to complete the implementation of economic rehabilitation
program by June 30, 1999 and the required funds were made available by the irrigation
department to the rehabilitation division who are responsible for implementation of
rehabilitation component.
Transmission and Distribution Components - Resettlement and Rehabilitation
13.  The exact sites of the proposed sub-stations and transmission routes had not been
identified at the time of appraisal and the likely number of persons, if any, that might be
affected was also not known. However provisions were made in the project cost estimates
for payment of compensation for acquisition of any private lands should the need for
compensation arise. All affected persons were to be paid compensation and extended
resettlement provisions in accordance with the Maharashtra Project Affected Persons Act.
14. There are very few cumulative adverse impacts due to implementation of transmission
and distribution components because of the nature of the activities. This is primarily because
the amount of land required for sub-stations was small (330 meters by 300 meters), and for
the transmission routes no land needed to be acquired, because the owners of the land where
the lines passes through will continue to have the right to cultivate the lands even after the
erection of the towers and the overhead lines. However, wherever the land owners suffered
damages to their standing crops or fruit-bearing trees or any other proprieties, they were paid
cash compensation for the damages suffered by them. Under the project the total length of
transmission lines erected is about 1,000 km, and none of the persons were adversely affected
due to these activities. A few people suffered damages to their standing crops and fruit-
bearing trees, when erection during the growing season was inevitable, and they were paid
agreed compensation for the losses.
15. In general, sub-stations were sited on vacant government land in order to avoid as
much as possible land acquisition or other adverse impacts. However in these cases, the
lands were either acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, or through direct negotiations.
Where the lands were acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, through the Revenue
Department of the Maharashtra State Government, the compensation was paid in accordance
with that Act. Since the land owners lost only very small portions of their total land
holdings, none of them were severely affected. Specifically 41 substations were constructed
on a total of 208 hectares (Government owned 78 hectares and the rest was acquired from
private owners). 125 persons were affected, and they were all paid compensation. The total
compensation paid out was Rs. 33,850,777. No-one was displaced, and therefore no
resettlement or rehabilitation measures had to be taken.



42
Appendix D
Financial Overview
1. MSEB's Financial Position at Project Appraisal.   At appraisal, in FY1989, MSEB
was performing well technically, but there were already signs of financial difficulties
looming in the future. MSEB sold about 25 billion units at an average rate of 78 Paise/kWh,
which was not sufficient to enable MSEB to cover its costs. Subsidies of about Rs. 2 billion
helped MSEB post a small net profit, but were not enough for MSEB to earn the statutory
rate of return of 3% (net income over net fixed assets).
2. At appraisal, in FY1989, MSEB was unable to cover its debt service obligations despite
the subsidy, having,a DSCR of 0.9. It was also unable to generate enough internal resources
to contribute towards financing its capital expenditure. As a result, capital expenditure was
financed entirely out of long tern loans from GOM and other sources. MSEB's receivables
position from sale of power was already unsatisfactory, and in FYI 989, stood at 3.8 months
of sales. Maharashtra had agreed at negotiations to ensure that starting FY1990, MSEB
would maintain its receivables at less than 2.5 months of sales, and earn an annual return of
3.0% on its historical net fixed assets in operation, increasing to 3.5% from FY1992 and then
to 4% from FY 1994 onwards. Return on net fixed assets continued to remain below the
covenanted level till FY1992.
3. MSEB's Current Financial Position at Project Completion.    MSEB performed
better than other state electricity boards during the project period, but its financial position
has deteriorated. In FY1996,FY1997 and FY1998, MSEB needed significant amounts of
subsidy to achieve a 4.5% return on its net fixed assets. In FY 96, while MSEB booked a
subsidy from GOM of Rs. 6.3 billion it actually received much less (only about Rs. 3.8
billion by adjustment against interest and lease rent due to GOM), leading to a return on net
fixed assets of about 1.3%. Even if the write-off of Rs. 1.65 billion is excluded, the return
would have been 3.4%. While MSEB's operating revenues did not enable compliance with
the DSCR covenant of 1.0 in FY1991 or 1.2 in FY1992, since FY1993, MSEB has been in
compliance with the covenant. Payables on account of fuel and power purchase have reduced
from 2.3 months in FY1989 to 1.5 months in FY1998 (though payables increased to 4.6
months in FY1992). MSEB has consistently met the commercial accounts payables covenant
of 2.0 months since FY1994.
4. MSEB's performance on receivables has not been creditable, demonstrating an inability
to function commercially, although it has contained its receivables at slightly above 4 months
of sales (mainly through write-offs of uncollectable dues) over the project duration. While
MSEB's collection (excluding write-offs) of current bills has improved from 90% in FY1992
to 94% in FY1998, it has been unable to recover dues from specific categories of consumers
such as the Mula Pravara Society. Despite the Bank's recommendations, MSEB has not been
able to write off the large amounts which are due from the Society and other consumers, even
though MSEB itself considers these to be uncollectable. As is evident from the table below,
the majority of receivables (as a proportion of sales to the respective categories) are from the
Mula Pravara society and agriculture. The other significant contributor to the defaults is the
category of public bodies (government departments), accounts which are directly or
indirectly controlled by the govermment.



43
Analysis of Receivables for Sale of Power (For the year ended March 31, 1998)
Sales                   Receivables for sale of powert'
(Rs. Million)           < 2 mths   2-6 mths  6-12 mths 1-2 years 2-3 years >3 years  Total Receivables
__________                                   ________      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(mths)
Domestic          8107      568       722        438     366      298    426      2817          4
Commercial        4902      326       337        256      190     164    224       1496         4
Industrial       51986      634       895        700    2029    1386   2409        8052         2
Agriculture       3301      284       1519      1442    1120    1003   1106       6473         24
Mula Pravara        58        0         0          0       0        0   3108       3108       641
Public bodies     6536      590       523        496      195     228   1051       3083         6
Others           16765        0         0          0      27      654      19      700
Total    .       91656    2401       3996       3332    3926    3732   8342    25729            3
a/: I he totals do not mauch the auicted ttgurcs smce these numbers do not wclude some accius   _
5. MSEB is a clear case of a good utility being constrained by the priorities of the state
government. An example of this is the fact that MSEB's request for a tariff increase of 13%,
effective April 1998, was delayed until September because of elections in the state.
Similarly, although MSEB's receivables from certain categories of consumers have been
increasing, GOM has frequently issued orders restricting MSEB from taking corrective or
punitive action against them. MSEB's dependence on GOM for tariff increases, belatedly
allowed, has resulted in a tariff structure which penalizes commerce and industry too highly
for their use of bulk-generated electrical energy.
6. Due to Maharashtra's unwillingness to allow increases in the tariffs for agricultural
consumers, commercial and industrial consumers have experienced repeated tariff increases,
and this has resulted in large cross-subsidization. The consumer category which includes
large industrial users, currently pays about Rs. 3.7/kWh, while agricultural consumers on
average pay only about Rs. 0.25/kWh, compared to an average MSEB cost of supply of about
Rs. 2.3 1/kWh. As a result, and to avoid paying the industrial tariff, industries are increasingly
depending on captive generation at uneconomic costs, i.e. above MSEB's costs of
production; and the position will worsen further (see next paragraph), when tariffs again have
to be increased.
7. While MSEB has been able to raise the requisite level of finances to meet its planned
capital expenditures, the situation is expected to deteriorate in the next few years. When the
expensive private power comes on stream, MSEB's finances will be badly impacted, and the
situation will worsen because MSEB will have to frequently back down its own low-cost
generation in order to fulfil the contractual obligations which MSEB has entered into with the
independent power producers. MSEB's ability to generate sufficient internal resources to
contribute meaningfully towards capital expenditure will be impaired severely, and MSEB
will increasingly have to depend on borrowings to finance its investment plan, and perhaps
even for operating and working capital needs.
8. The ability of the Maharashtra power sector to avoid this scenario, and indeed, its very
financial viability, hinges (a) on it having the requisite operational and managerial autonomy,
along with an incentive system which encourages reduction of inefficiencies, to enable it to
operate effectively as a commercially oriented utility, and (b) on it being allowed tariffs



44
which increasingly (even if gradually, in some cases) move towards recovering cost of
supply from each category of consumers. It is unlikely that these will happen in the absence
of comprehensive reforms which distance the sector from the state government, which
enables independent regulation and which brings in commercially-oriented, private
ownership and management in distribution.
India
Second Maharashtra Power Project (LN 3096-IN)
MSEB's Financial Performance - FY 89 to FY 98(see Table next page, for support data)
Financial Year ending      FY 89   FY 90  FY 91  FY 92   FY 93   FY 94   FY 95    FY 96   FY 97   FY 98
March 31
Covenants
Retum on Net Fixed Assets
Covenant  0.0%    3.0%    3.0%    3.5%      4.5%     4.5%     4.5%      4.5%     4.5%     4.5%
Actual   1.4%    0.5%    2.6%    3.0%     5.2%     4.8%     4.7%      1.3%     4.5%     4.5%
Receivables (months)
Covenant       -    2.5    2.5    2.5         2.5      2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5      2.5
Actual    3.8    3.8    4.0    4.5          4.6      4.6      4.4       4.2      3.7      4.0
Payables - fuel, power (months)
Covenant    0.0    3.5    3.0    2.0          2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0
Actual    2.3    2.5    2.2    4.6          5.0      1.9      1.7       1.6      1.8      1.5
DSCR
Covenant       -       -     1.0    1.2       1.2      1.2      1.2       1.2      1.2      1.2
Actual    0.9    0.9    0.9        1.0      1.2      1.2      1.4       1.5      1.4      1.3
SFR (excluding subsidies)
Covenant       0       0       0       0   20.0%    20.0%    25.0%    25.0%    25.0%    25.0%
Actual -46.3%  -19.4%   -8.4%, 11.6%    27.4%,  11.2%    38.3%       -2.3%    40.1%1  -7.0%



45
India
Second Maharashtra Power Project (LN 3096-IN)
MSEB's Financial Performance - FY 89 to FY 98
Actual performance vis-a-vis SAR forecasts
(Values in Rs. million)
Financial Year              FY 89           FY 90           FY 91           FY 92           FY 93          FY 94           FY 95       FY 96   FY 97  FY 98
ended March 31            Act    SAR    Act    SAR    Act    SAR    Act           SAR      Act   SAR      Act   SAR       Act   SAR        Act    Act    Act
estimate       estimate        estimate        estimate        estimate       estimate        estimate
Sales (GWh)            24,981   25,698 26,972   29,501 28,414   32,625 30,472   35,640  31,454  37,744  34,562  37,787  37,763  41,038   41,619  42,698  43,894
Average Revenue (Rs/kWh)   0.78   0.75   0.82     0.78   1.02     0.83   1.08     0.90    1.37    1.00    1.51    1.11    1.61    1.22    1.69    1.99    2.09
OperatingIncome         2,984    3,684  3,271    4,090  5,035    5,084  6,719    6,434   9,258   7,634  10,164   9,268  10,226  11,568   10,840  11,095  12,264
Net Income                395    1,372   143    1,338   855    1,710  1,253    2,096   2,721   2,368   2,889   3,259   3,208   4,287    3,496   3,466   3,423
Intemal Sources         4,862    5,423  6,714    6,332  9,507    7,729 10,805    9,778  15,643  11,551  17,938  13,394  19,362  17,065   18,092  24,828  22,520
Borrowings              10,166    5,985  9,084    8,405 12,310   12,326  8,348   13,629   9,103  15,012   8,033  19,260  11,364  22,662    7,652  13,825  24,700
Total Sources           15,028   11,408 15,798   14,737 21,816   20,055 19,153   23,407  24,746  26,563  25,971  32,654  30,726  39,727   25,744  38,653  47,220
Capital Expenditure      8,680    8,064 10,517   10,420 12,228   14,321 12,680   15,697  13,736  17,126  11,784  22,406  15,145  26,786   15,448  19,931  20,431
Working Capital Changes    1,611    (521)  (63)    (443)  1,939    135 (2,533)     585    449    830   1,841    209   3,404   1,248  (2,214)   3,820  10,092
Debt Service            4,737    3,865  5,342    4,761  7,650    5,599  9,007    7,125  10,562   8,606  12,344  10,040  12,178  11,693   12,510  14,902  16,697
Total Applications      15,028   11,408 15,797   14,738 21,817   20,055 19,154   23,407  24,747  26,562  25,969  32,655  30,727  39,727   25,744  38,653  47,220
CurrentAssets           13,902   12,111 16,125   12,901 18,392   14,291 22,771    16,198  29,383  18,473  28,628  20,005  33,775  23,196   44,214  41,797  54,779
LessCurrentLiabilities  17,104   10,679 20,516   11,913 22,539   13,168 30,551    14,490  38,335  15;935  37,766  17,259  34,834  19,201   44,239  42,158  47,596
(3,201)    1,432 (4,392)   988 (4,147)    1,123 (7,780)    1,708  (8,952)  2,538  (9,138)  2,746  (1,059)   3,995  (26)  (361)   7,183
NetFixedAssets          52,571   51,819 61,637   60,510 72,153   72,720 82,909   85,768  93,164  99,761 100,698 118,578 108,930 140,991  115,969 126,794 141,513
Total Assets            49,369   53,251 57,246   61,498 68,006   73,843 75,129   87,476  84,212 102,299  91,561 121,324 107,871 144,986  115,944 126,433 148,696
Debt                    44,502   47,829 51,372   54,224 60,211   64,326 65,019   75,167  70,096  86,839  73,060 102,069  64,478 120,319   66,964  73,516  90,361
Equity                  4,868    5,421  5,877    7,273  7,797    9,517 10,111    12,309  14,115  15,460  18,502  19,255  43,394  24,660   48,980  52,918  58,336
Total Debt+ Equity      49,369   53,250 57,249   61,497 68,009   73,843 75,130   87,476  84,211 102,299  91,562 121,324 107,872 144,979  115,944 126,434 148,696
Ratios:
Rate of Retum (Gol)      1.4%     2.9%   0.5%     2.9%   2.6%    3.0%   3.0%      3.5%    5.2%    3.5%    4.8%    4.0%    4.7%    4.0%    1.3%    4.5%    4.5%
RateofRetum(Before      10.7%    10.1%  10.9%     9.6%  15.1%    9.3%  16.2%      9.4%   17.8%   10.0%   16.9%   10.5%   15.1%   10.2%    13.9%   14.4%   16.1%
Interest)
NICGas%ofCapital       -46.3%    32.9% -19.4%    11.0%  -8.4%     8.1%  11.6%    11.1%   27.4%   12.9%   11.2%   19.0%   38.3%   21.4%    -2.3%   40.1%   -7.0%
Expenditure
Debt Service Coverage     0.9       1.3   0.9      1.2   0.9       1.3   1.0        1.3    1.2    1.3    1.2    1.3    1.4         1.4     1.5    1.4    1.3
Current Ratio              0.8      1.1   0.8      1.1   0.8       1.1   0.7       1.1    0.8    1.2    0.8    1.2    1.0          1.2     1.0    1.0    1.2
Debt as % of Debt+Equity    0.90  0.90   0.90     0.88   0.89     0.87   0.87     0.86    0.83    0.85    0.80    0.84    0.60    0.83    0.58    0.58    0.61



