Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3096 IN
                    (Maharashtra Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                       STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                     Dated September 11, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3096 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  11,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and STATE OF
MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor (Maharashtra).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between India, acting  by  its  President  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to four hundred million
dollars ($400,000,000), on the  terms  and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but  only  on condition that Maharashtra agree
to undertake such obligations toward the  Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  for the purpose  of  carrying  out  of  the Project, the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available by the Borrower  to  Maharashtra as provided for in
the Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration  of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
Page  2
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Maharashtra  declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry  out: (i) Part A of the
Project; and (ii) cause to  be  carried  out Part B of the Project
through the  Board,  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices,  and  shall  provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section  and  except  as  the  Bank  and Maharashtra shall
otherwise agree,  Maharashtra  shall  carry  out  or  cause  to be
carried out  the  Project  in  accordance  with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Maharashtra  shall  relend an amount equivalent
to $170,000,000 to the Board out  of the proceeds of the Loan made
available  by  the  Borrower   to  Maharashtra,  under  terms  and
conditions which  shall  have  been  approved  by  the Bank, which
shall, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, include interest at
a rate not  less  than  the  prevailing  standard rate of interest
applicable to loans from Maharashtra to the Board (and in no event
less than 9% per  annum)  on  the  principal  amount so relent and
withdrawn by the  Board  and  outstanding  from  time to time, and
repayment over  a  period  of  twenty  years,  including therein a
period of grace of five years.
     Section 2.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 2.04. Maharashtra  shall  carry  out  or  cause to be
carried out the  obligations  set  forth  in  Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09  of  the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.05. (a) Maharashtra  shall,  at  the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank  with regard to progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance  by  Maharashtra  of  its  obligations  under this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
              Management and Operations of the Board
Page  3
     Section 3.01. Maharashtra shall cause the Board to: (i) carry
on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and  public  utility practices under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; (ii) at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery,  equipment  and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public  utility  practices;  and  (iii) take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision satis-
factory to the Bank for, insurance  against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section  3.02.  Without   limiting   the  generality  of  the
foregoing provisions  of  this  Article,  Maharashtra  shall under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,  cause the dams and related
structures  constructed  under  Part  A   of  the  Project  to  be
periodically  inspected  in   accordance  with  sound  engineering
practice in order to determine  whether there are any deficiencies
in the  condition  of  such  structures,  or  in  the  quality and
adequacy of maintenance  or  methods  of  operations  of the same,
which may endanger their  safety.  To  this end, Maharashtra shall
propose to the Bank appropriate arrangements for the Bank's review
no later than  one  year  before  the  expected completion of such
structures.
     Section 3.03.  Maharashtra  shall  cause  the  Board  to: (i)
reduce total  commercial  accounts  receivables  less any disputed
amount to less than  2.5  months  of  revenues effective March 31,
1990 and thereafter; and  (ii) reduce commercial accounts payables
to less than 3.5  months  of  consumption of fuel and consumables,
plus purchases of power, effective  March  31, 1990, 3.0 months by
March 31, 1991 and 2.0 months by March 31, 1992 and thereafter.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) Maharashtra  shall  maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  engineering  practices  the  operations, resources and
expenditures,  in  respect  of  Part  A  of  the  Project,  of the
departments or agencies  of  Maharashtra  responsible for carrying
out Part A of the Project.
     (b)  Maharashtra shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. Maharashtra shall cause the Board to:
     (a)  maintain records  and  accounts  adequate  to reflect in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices  its  operations and
financial condition.
Page  4
     (b)  have  its  records,  accounts  and  financial statements
(balance sheets, statements  of  income  and  expenses and related
statements) for  each  fiscal  year  audited,  in  accordance with
appropriate auditing principles  consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (c)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as  available, but in any
case not later than nine months  after  the end of each such year:
(A) certified copies of its  financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such  detail  as  the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
     (d)  furnish to the  Bank  such  other information concerning
said records, accounts  and  financial  statements  as well as the
audit thereof, as  the  Bank  shall  from  time to time reasonably
request.
     Section 4.03. (a) Maharashtra  shall  cause the Board to take
from time to time all such  measures as may be necessary including
the implementation of  a  financial  action  plan and a managerial
development  action  plan,  both  agreed  with  the  Bank,  and if
necessary, adjustment of tariffs of  the  Board to ensure that the
total revenues in any financial year shall, after meeting: (i) all
expenses properly  chargeable  to  revenues,  including operating,
maintenance and  management  expenses;  (ii)  taxes  on income and
profits; (iii)  depreciation;  and  (iv)  interest  charged on all
debentures, bonds and loans; produce  such  surplus as is not less
than  3%  in  financial  years  1989/90  and  1990/91,  3-1/2%  in
financial years 1991/92 and 1992/93, and 4% thereafter, of the net
fixed assets of the Board at the beginning of such year.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "total revenues" means  revenues  of the Board from
               the sale of electricity and other services, miscel-
               laneous  income,  rural  electrification  subsidies
               received   from   Maharashtra,   and   such   other
               subventions  as  shall   be   made  in  respect  of
               extraordinary costs which  are  borne  by the Board
               and  which  should  not   reasonably  be  borne  by
               customers of the Board;
         (ii)  "expenses" means  the  cost  of  power generated as
               well as  purchased,  fuel,  operating, maintenance,
               management  and  administrative  expenses,  and all
               taxes accruing  during  the  financial  year, other
               than taxes on income and profits of the Board;
        (iii)  "taxes on income  and  profits"  consists of income
               taxes  and  other  levies   accrued  by  the  Board
               according to the  provisions  of any legislation or
               regulation applicable in this respect;
         (iv)  "depreciation" means a  provision derived in accor-
               dance with the  straight-line  method  based on the
               useful  life  of   assets   as  stipulated  in  the
               Borrower's notification G.S.F.  No.  1330 (E) dated
               December 12, 1986,  issued  under the provisions of
               Section 68 of the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948, of
               the Borrower,  based  on  the  gross  value  of the
               Board's fixed assets in service at the beginning of
               each year;
          (v)  "interest  charged  on  all  debentures,  bonds and
               loans"  means  all   interest,  excluding  interest
               during construction,  accrued  by  the Board during
               the financial year and  all  other charges on debt;
               and
         (vi)  "net fixed  assets  of  the  Board"  means: (A) the
               original cost of such  fixed  assets, as reduced by
Page  5
               the aggregate  of  the  cumulative  depreciation in
               respect  of  such   assets;   less  (B)  consumers'
               contribution for service lines, also reduced by the
               aggregate of the cumulative depreciation in respect
               of such portion of  the  service  lines as has been
               financed by consumer contributions.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Maharashtra shall cause the  Board  to  take  all steps within its
power necessary to ensure  that commencing financial year 1990/91,
its internal cash generation for each  year shall be at least 1.00
times the debt service requirements of its debt for financial year
1990/91 and, at least 1.20  times the debt service requirements of
its debt for each of the following financial years.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Board
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred under: (A) a
               loan contract,  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms  of  payment,  on  the  date,  and to the
               extent,  the  amount   of   such  debt  has  become
               outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B)  a  guarantee agreement, on the
               date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
               been entered into but  only  to the extent that the
               guaranteed debt shall be outstanding.
        (iii)  The term "equity" means the aggregate amount of the
               total unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
               and reserves not  allocated  to cover specific lia-
               bilities of the Board.
         (iv)  The  term  "internal  cash  generation"  means  the
               aggregate amount of the gross revenues of the Board
               from all sources, less  the aggregate amount of the
               operating expenses of the Board, including expenses
               accountable  to   administration,  maintenance  and
               taxes (or payments  in  lieu  of taxes), but before
               provision for depreciation  of  assets and interest
               and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirement"  means  the
               aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
               fund payments, if any) of, and interest accrued and
               chargeable to revenue during the relevant financial
               year and other charges on debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of currency of the
               Borrower, debt  payable  in  another currency, such
               valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of  the
               prevailing rate of exchange notified by the Reserve
               Bank of India at  which  such other currency is, at
               the time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for the
               purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence
               of such rate, on  the  basis  of a rate of exchange
               acceptable to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
Page  6
and of Maharashtra thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify Maharashtra thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Maharashtra:
          Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra
          Department of Energy
          Mantralya, Bombay
          India
          Cable address:
                ENRG
                Mantralya, Bombay
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra  may  be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra or such other person or
persons as Maharashtra shall designate in writing, and Maharashtra
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A  hereof,  Maharashtra  may  grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 and  $5,000,000 each or less, respectively,
may be procured  on  the  basis  of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for  survey  equipment,  laboratory instruments and
equipment, specialized office  engineering equipment, and computer
hardware and  software  upto  an  aggregate  amount  of $5,000,000
equivalent may be procured  on  the  basis  of comparison of price
quotations solicited  from  a  list  of  at  least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With  respect  to  each  contract  for  civil  works and
equipment estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $5,000,000 and
Page  8
$1,000,000 or  more,  respectively,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan Agree-
ment.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist  Maharashtra  in carrying out the Project,
Maharashtra shall employ or  cause  to  be  employed by the Board,
consultants  whose  qualifications,   experience   and  terms  and
conditions of employment shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures  satisfactory  to  the   Bank   on  the  basis  of  the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
2.   Consultants for  the  preparation  of  final  engineering and
technical  specifications,  inspection  of  manufacturing  of  the
generating units and erection and  testing of said units, shall be
appointed no later than December 31, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.   Maharashtra shall cause the Board to: (i) furnish to the Bank
by December 31, 1989, a  copy  of  the  final report of the Tariff
Study; and (ii) by June  30,  1990, afford the Bank an opportunity
to  comment  on   the   Board's   proposals  for  load  management
initiatives and  tariff  adjustments  based,  inter  alia,  on the
recommendations of  the  Tariff  Study  before  said proposals are
implemented.
2.   Maharashtra shall take necessary steps  to carry out a review
of the technical aspects of  Koyna  IV in accordance with terms of
reference agreed with the  Bank  through  a  panel of experts with
qualifications and experience agreed with the Bank.
3.   Maharashtra shall, by December 31,  1989, furnish to the Bank
for its comments a roster  of specialists and their qualifications
to be appointed by Maharashtra on the panel of experts referred to
in paragraph 2 above.
4.   Maharashtra shall: (a) by  December  31, 1989 appoint a panel
of experts to review the  present  condition of the existing Koyna
dam, determine the scope of additional investigations, review said
Page  9
investigations and repairs of said dam; (b) furnish to the Bank by
December 31, 1990 a report  on  the recommendations of said panel;
and (c) if so  recommended  by  said  panel, retain consultants by
June 30,  1991  to  assist  Maharashtra  in  the implementation of
recommendations of said panel.
5.   Maharashtra shall:  (a)  revise  suitably  the organizational
structure and appoint adequate  staff  of the project implementing
unit of its Department  of  Irrigation;  and  (b) give the Bank an
opportunity  to  comment  on   any   substantial  changes  in  the
organizational structure of the said unit.
6.   Maharashtra shall, by December 31,  1989, furnish to the Bank
a report on all persons,  whether  land  owning or landless, to be
displaced by the  proposed  construction  of  Koyna  IV, and shall
compensate and resettle  eligible  persons  in accordance with the
provisions of the Maharashtra Project Displaced Persons Act, 1976.
7.   Maharashtra  shall,  in  the   event  of  not  receiving  the
clearance  under  the  Forest  (Conservation)  Act,  1980  of  the
Borrower by December 31, 1989  for the construction of access road
to the surge tank  for  Koyna IV, propose satisfactory alternative
solution for access to said tank.
8.   Maharashtra shall cause the Board  to furnish to the Bank, by
December  31,  1989,  a   timetable   for   key  actions  for  the
construction of transmission lines  to  connect the Koyna IV power
station to  the  transmission  system  of  Maharashtra,  and shall
implement the construction of  said  lines  in accordance with the
agreed timetable.
9.   Maharashtra  shall   cause   the   Board   to  establish,  by
December 31, 1989, a Project  Cell  under the charge of its Member
(Technical) to monitor implementation of  the Project, to serve as
a liaison with other  government  agencies  on matters relating to
the implementation of  the  Project,  to prepare periodic progress
reports as required, and  to  coordinate preparation of withdrawal
applications under the Loan.
10.  Maharashtra shall cause the Board  to furnish to the Bank, by
March 1 of  each  year,  a  work  plan  adequate to facilitate the
monitoring and supervision  of  the  Project  which shall include,
inter alia: (a) a list of transmission lines and substations to be
financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan during the following
financial year; (b) a list  of contract packages for which tenders
are to be invited and  an  associated timetable for procurement of
equipment and material to be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and (c) a plan  to  be  carried out for the resettlement and
rehabilitation of persons  displaced  or  to  be  displaced by the
construction of any  sub-station  under  the  Project, based on an
actual survey of the land.
11.  Maharashtra shall cause the Board  to furnish to the Bank, by
December 31  each  year,  revisions,  if  any,  to its provisional
capital investment and financing plan for the next five years.
