Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCL USE ONLY
Rqept No. 13065
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1346-YDR)
MAY 17, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR, 1346-YDRI
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
1984-1989
1 Yomeni Dinar (YD)      -     US$ 2.92
US$ 1                    -      YD 0.342
1990-1992
YD  1                          US$ 2.17
US$ 1                    5      YD 0.461
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)    =      10,000 square meters = 2.47 acres
1 liter (1)        =     0.264 gallons
1 metric ton (t)  =      1,000 kilograms = 0.98 long ton
cm                       centimeter
yr                 =     year
sec                      second
a                        meter
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AFESD       Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP      FAO/World Bank Cooperative Progra
HYV         High Yielding Varieties
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
FD          Kuwait Dinar
KFAED       Kuwait Fund for Arab Econosic Development
MAWR        Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
NCA         Net Command Area
OH         Operation and Maintenance
PCMFV       Public Corporation for Karketing of Fruit and Vegetables
PCR         Project Completion Report
PDC         Public Drilling Corporation
PDRY        People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PMU         Project Management Unit
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SMS         Subject Matter Specialist
TA          Technical Assistance
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
WH          Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
BCM         Billion Cubic Meter
FD          Feddan (one fd equal to 1.037 acres)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
Kwh         Kilowatt hours
GOVERNMENT OF THE RZPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
1 January - 31 December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 17, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Republic of Yemen
Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1346-YDR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Republic of Yemen-Second Wadi
Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1346-YDR). Parts I and III were prepared
by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II consists of useful extracts from the
detailed completion report prepared by the Borrower.
The project initiated the development of a deep ground water aquifer for irrigation
in the Wadi Hadramawt region of Yemen. The primary irrigation works were completed as
planned, but project on-farm work and agricultural support services were not satisfactory. The
project had minimal institutional development content. Its institutional impact is rated negligible.
The performance of the project has been hampered by a number of unanticipated
extemal factors resulting primarily from the reunification of Yemen and the 1990 Gulf War. The
former has led to major policy changes which have caused considerable uncertainty, especially
over land tenure and the management of group farm units. Consequently, investment by farmers
in tree crops and equipment, and cropping intensities, have been below forecast. The ERR was
reestimated as 8.6 percent compared to 12 percent at appraisal. Sustainability is considered
uncertain. The overall outcome of the project is rated as marginally unsatisfactory.
Part II includes additional lessons on the appropriate use of subsidies, water
charges, and water-efficient crops, and on the timing of procurement and government provision of
foreign exchange.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation.
No audit is planned at this time.
Robert Picciotto
by Hans-Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1346-YDR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Currency Equivalents/Weights and Measures/Abbreviations
PREFACE  . . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART  I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM  IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            1
1.   Project  Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             1
2.   Background       .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .1
3.   Project Objectives  and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             2
4.   Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              3
5.   Project  Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             6
6.   Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
7.   Project  Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
8.   Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
9.   Borrower  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
10.  Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
11.  Consulting Services,  Training and Contractor Performance   . . . . . .    14
12.  Project Documentation  and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
13.  Findings  and Lessons  Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .    17
PART III: STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
TABLES
1.   Related Bank Loans/Credits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
2.   Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
3.   Credit Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
4.   Project  Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
5.   Project  Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
6.   Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
7.   Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
8.   Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
9.   Past  & Projected Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
10.  Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
11.  Donors and Government  Contribution   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRANAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1346-YDR)
PREFACE
1.         This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Wadi
Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (WH II), for which Credit 1346-YDR
in the amount of SDR 8.3 million was approved on April 12, 1983. The Credit
was closed on 30 June, 1992, three years behind schedule. A total of SDR 7.33
million was disbursed with the final disbursement being made on November 11,
1992 and the unutilized balance of SDR 0.66 cancelled. The actual total cost
of the project amounted to US$38.14 million, for which IDA provided the
equivalent of US$9.38 million, Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development,
US$12.78 million, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, US$10.42
million, UNDP US$0.20 million and Government the remaining US$5.36 million in
local currency.
2.          Part I and III were prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program (FAO/CP) mission' which visited the Republic of Yemen in June 1992
for the Agricultural Operations Division, Country Department II of the Middle
East and North Africa Region of the World Bank.2 The Borrower has prepared a
detailed Completion Report for Part II. The project's cofinanciers, AFESD,
KFAED and UNDP were provided copies of the draft PCR; no comments have been
received from them.
3.          The project was a major undertaking in the then People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY). This Project Completion Report is based,
inter alia, on information gathered in Yemen, discussions with staff and
officials of Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project and the Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Resources, in addition to information and data
gathered from the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development Credit
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower
and internal IDA correspondence.
1/   lresrs. D. J. lAnn. Project Analynt (mission Leader) and J.m. D"ny. Agrontoist (Consultant).
The Took Manager tor this operation I Kr. Iejdot Al-Slibhl. Irrigation Ungineer (M2AGO). who together with Namer.
Rahul taturi  Senior Agricultural Economist   Mansur 3-htar  Economist  and J  Bakahl  Agronomist Co






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1346-YDR1
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project followed on from
the preparatory works implemented and studies carried out under a first
phase project of Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (WH I,
Cr. 615-YDR); both were centered on Seiyun located in the northern part of
Wadi Hadramawt. Given the emphasis on increasing agricultural production, and,
as most other sources of groundwater had already been developed, the
Government considered Wadi Hadramawt as the main remaining area with a
potential for expansion and intensification of groundwater irrigation. Based
on an assessment of available water resources, the project aimed to increase
agricultural production, to raise farmers' income and to correct the long-term
negative effect of the gradual lowering of the shallow watertable in Hadramawt
caused by shallow open wells used for irrigation. This was to be achieved
through the development of available groundwater resources from alternative
deep-lying aquifers for irrigating an area of about 3,150 ha, provision of
farm machinery, improvement of on-farm agricultural practices, provision of
technical assistance, training, and studies.
Implementation
2.          The program of support for agricultural development in the Wadi
Hadramawt areas was initiated under WH I (Cr. 615-YDR) the design of which
emphasized implementation of key studies for designing a long-term development
program and undertaking infrastructure and pilot agricultural programs for
guiding the design of future developments. The hydrological and feasibility
studies which were completed under WH I formed the basis for the subsequent
preparation of the project, while the experience gained from the agricultural
and infrastructure components of WH I formed an important basis in designing
the Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (WH II). The
program of support is continuing under the Third Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural
Development Project (WH III), which was approved by IDA on June 22, 1989. Due
to the uncertainties caused by the Gulf crisis of 1990 and the political
unification of the two Yemens, physical implementation of WH III was delayed.
The WH III project has recently been restructured, and the revised design has
taken into account the changed policy environment in the country (which
emphasizes private sector developments), need for facilitating the process of



- iv -
transition from the earlier government controlled system to a largely private
sector managed agriculture, and the lessons learned from implementing WH II.
3.          Although over a somewhat longer period than originally planned,
most of the project objectives in irrigation developments were achieved, and
in some cases the targets were exceeded. The project achieved groundwater
irrigation developments over an area of 3,360 ha. The first project
investments were made in 1984/85, resulting in the first cropping of
development areas in 1987/88. The project area was fully developed and
cultivated one-year after the original completion date. This delay was due in
particular to a one-year delay in finalizing the financing plan and delays
experienced in procurement; project implementation was also affected by
unforeseeable factors such as the major civil disturbances in January 1986,
extensive floods in March 1987 and national unification and political
realignment in 1990. Production was in full swing in 1988/89 when cropping
intensity reached 65 percent, 25 percent higher than the pre-project level of
52 percent, leading to a significant increase in overall production. Further
improvements in crop production were hampered by a number of factors,
including: inadequate attention to agronomic development planning, weak
coordination of extension services, and procurement problems resulting in
shortages of fertilizers and crop protection chemicals, delays in delivering
of agriculture machinery and political change resulting in farmers,
uncertainty over land tenure. In addition, the Gulf crisis and the
unification had a major effect on lending flows and on farmers' confidence.
This dramatically influenced the cropping intensity, which declined. In
1991/92, a change in Government policy with regard to land ownership (land
which was nationalised in the former Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen
(PDRY) during land reforms carried out in the early 1970s was returned to the
original owners) led to uncertainties for the project area farmers over land
rights; this affected about 75 percent of the total project area. These
uncertainties are considered by Government to be only temporary; however, they
resulted in a shut down of 40 percent of the project tubewells in the winter
of 1991/92, which resulted in a drop of cropping intensity to 39 percent. By
October 1992, the non-operational wells had dropped to 16 percent, with a
corresponding improvement in cropping intensity.
4.          The project was designed within the context of cooperatively
managed farms, using 50 ha blocks of land irrigated in border strips by up to
six families (or typically four families). The appraisal expectation on
efficient labor resource and machinery management on a cooperative basis was
not, however, fully realized within the short time between the completion of
works and the change in Government policies following unification, under which
the past system of cooperative farming is giving way to privately managed
farms. This, combined with poor extension services and a lack of an
agricultural production plan, contributed to a much lower realization in areas
planted to horticultural winter crops, than that envisaged at appraisal. In
addition, power cuts have also adversely affected crop production.
5.          Although there was no overall cost overrun in the project, certain
items of works did show considerable overruns such as land levelling. The



costs for these were covered by reductions from other items and project
contingencies. This type of cost increase can be normally reduced if the
estimated quantities for the project are based on detailed rather than
feasibility stage designs.
Results
6.          The unsettled situation prevailing at the end of the project
implementation made it difficult to predict the likely outcome on
sustainability of agricultural production for the project area. However,
measures have been taken by the Government during 1992, which are aimed at
addressing the uncertainties. In making projections for future crop
developments, consideration has been given to the likely effects from the
changes in policy and their impact on farmer behavior. In view of the steps
which have already been initiated by government to address land tenure issues
and the improvements apparent with regard to the resolution of outstanding
disputes in the Wadi, albeit gradual, it is assumed that the full development
cropping intensity of about 93 percent would be obtained in Year 13, eight
years after the infrastructure was completed. In addition, it is expected
that full development yields would be reached over a period of ten years (SAR
estimate was five years). The ERR of this project, which was estimated using
a similar basis to that used at appraisal, is estimated at 8.60 percent; this
compares with the SAR estimate of 12 percent. To a large extent, the lower
economic performance of the project is the direct result of the unforeseeable
circumstances which have prevailed in the country, and in particular in the
southern Governorates, over the past two to four years; these have resulted in
uncertainties for farmers, causing lower than expected crop producton.
Sensitivity analysis carried out shows that if the temporary slump in
production had not occurred during the period 1989/90 to 1992/93, due to the
political and policy changes and the associated socio-economic uncertainties,
the project's ERR would have been around 11.0 percent. At the time of
appraisal, it was recognised that the ERR would be sensitive to delays and
shortfalls in project benefits. According to the SAR, a one- or two-year
delay would reduce the ERR to 10 percent and 8.2 percent respectively and a 20
percent shortfall in benefits would cause it to drop to 7.9 percent. The
project has had a favourable impact on the physical and technical environment;
however, if well drilling is not effectively regulated under the terms of the
recently passed Council of Minister's decree for this purpose, the project's
impact on the physical environment would rapidly become negative since
unregulated well drilling which occurs in the area will then continue, with
adverse consequences.
Sustainabilitv
7.          The projects impact on increased agricultural production has been
delayed due to conditions which were not forseen at appraisal, and which have
negatively effected the projects performance. However, now that actions by
government have been taken regarding land tenure, the project should begin to
make a positive impact and play an important role in providing increased
agricultural production in a sustainable manner in the years to come in Wadi
Hadramawt. A further aspect of sustainability is the important role the



- vi -
Project Management Unit is likely to have by implementing the Third Wadi
Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project. This will provide further support
for the project area and ensure continuity of services which will in the long
run provide the necessary stimulus for the project farmers to overcome the
initial delays in achieving the project's objectives. In particular, the
operation and maintenance unit of the project which provides basic services
for the new project infrastructure and to which the farmers contribute is a
key element in the financial sustainability of the project.
8.          The privatization of agricultural land and reversion of the
farming areas to their original owners following unification, although
creating some initial indecision and delays in achieving the full project
benefits as predicted in the SAR does, however, promise to harness the full
productive capabilities of the farming community. However, there is need to
address the prevailing macro-economic distortions in the economy to ensure
that the increased agricultural production levels are sustained in the future.
Of immediate importance in this context, is the need to ensure the
availability of adequate foreign exchange to private sector importers of crop
production chemicals (including fertilizers) and machinery spare parts, and
the rationalization of public sector prices for these commodities in a manner
which does not dampen private sector initiatives. The other important
constraint which needs attention in the long term from the sustainability
perspective is the need for implementing the water decree which is intended to
provide effective control of drilling of boreholes to avoid overpumping of the
groundwater aquifers. A more recent constraint has arisen due to lack of
continuity of electrical power supplies due to a shortage of imported spare
parts for the main Wadi Hadramawt electrical generating plant. Interruptions
of two to four hours a day have been recorded thus affecting the number of
possible irrigation hours per day. This is, however, a transitionary
situation and is being remedied by government.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.          The main lessons learned from this project are:
(i)      Although, it would have been difficult to forsee the
possible changes at SAR stage, indecisions or
modifications affecting land tenure in agricultural
projects, will have a distabilizing effect, in the
short run, on the full utilization of project
facilities by farmers;
(ii)      To avoid delays in implementation, the financing plan
should be firmed prior to Board presentation;
(iii)      To avoid cost overruns, project estimates should
preferably be based on detailed designs;
(iv)      In projects where significant increases in cropping
intensities and yields are envisaged, the project
authority should ensure timely implementation of



- vii -
agreed agricultural production plans and focussed
extension activities in addition to the appointment of
technical expertise and backup of TA staff.
(v)      Procurement procedures need to be streamlined in the
concerned Government Departments to avoid delays;
(vi)      An efficient Monitoring and Evaluation System is
essential as a supporting tool of management. The
projects M&E Unit has performed extremely well;
(vii)      For a comprehensive approach to agricultural
development in Wadi Hadramawt, serious consideration
should be given to the establishment of a Development
Authority to ensure the integration of all
agricultural activities and provide greater financial
and administrative authority to the Project Management
Unit; and
(viii)      Lessons learned on design of irrigation works include:
(a) to avoid excessive earthmoving requirements for
land levelling and maintain good control of irrigation
uniformity, land levelling plane units should not be
oversized; (b) number of pumped irrigation hours per
day should preferably not exceed 16 hours per day; and
(c) demonstration farms for sprinkler and drip
irrigation should be small in size (not larger than
one to two hectares) with initial units operated by
the project and follow on units established on farmers
land where the farmer will be responsible for
operation and maintenance.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
{CREDIT 1346-YDR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Project Name             Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
Credit No.               Cr. 1346-YDR
RVP Unit           :     MN2AG
Country            :     Republic of Yemen
Sector             :     Agriculture
Subsector                Irrigation
Background
1.          The principal objectives of the Government's Second Five-Year Plan
(1981-1985) for the agricultural sector, in the previous People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY), were to achieve self-sufficiency in vegetable
production, to cover about 60% to 70% of foodgrain requirements, to increase
exports and to provide raw materials for agro-industries. To achieve these
objectives, Government's policy was to expand and modernize the irrigation
system and take measures to encourage better use of water; improve farming
techniques to raise productivity; better marketing arrangements and intensify
efforts for expanding existing marketing facilities; and improve transport
facilities.
2.          Irrigated agriculture in the Hadramawt valley is based on
groundwater resources which are considered capable of expanded sustained
extraction. At the time of project appraisal, considerable investments had
already been made to develop the spate irrigation potential of the major
valleys in the western part of the country, and there was little scope for
further expansion. In view of this, it was recognized that groundwater
development provided the best alternative basis for agricultural expansion.
Since most other sources for groundwater had already been or were in the
process of being developed, the Government decided to focus on Wadi Hadramawt
as the principal area remaining with a potential for expansion and
intensification of groundwater irrigation. An IDA, first phase development
project, the Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (WH I; Cr 615-YDR
for US$7 million), was implemented between 1976 and 1982. It financed among
other things (infrastructure, institutional strengthening and pilot schemes),
a hydrogeological study to determine the potential for increased groundwater
utilization. WH I was considered an appropriate lead-in for WH II (the
subject of this PCR) which was based on the groundwater resource identified
through studies under WH I.



3.           WH I emphasized implementation of key studies for designing a
long-term development program and undertaking infrastructure and pilot
agricultural programs for guiding the design of future development. The
hydrological and feasibility studies which were completed by consultants in
1980 formed the basis of the subsequent preparation of the project. The
infrastructure work executed under WH I, such as rural roads and water supply
schemes were highly appreciated by the beneficiaries and set the framework for
the subsequent phases of agricultural development in Wadi Hadramawt. The
agricultural components of WH I such as the establishment of the extension
service, provision of inputs and farm machinery in addition to the experience
gained from the three pilot farm units of 50 ha each, formed the basis for the
design fo the WH II project.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
4.          The principal objectives of the Project were to increase
production of cereals, fodder, fruit and vegetables; raise farmers' income;
and, by tapping deeper aquifers for better quality water, correct the long-
term gradual lowering of the shallow watertable in the project area which was
due to depletion of the alluvial aquifer used traditionally by farmers
practicing irrigation, leading to an increasing degree of water salinity.
5.          To obtain these objectives, the project comprised the following
components:
(i)      irrigation development through establishing 55 new deep tube
wells and improving and deepening about 105 open wells and
electrification of about 20 existing tubewells; land
levelling and construction of an irrigation conveyance
network on 3,150 ha and; establishing 75 ha of sprinkler and
drip irrigation; improving spate irrigation infrastructure
for 200 ha and rehabilitating four wadi flow control sills;
(ii)      provision of farm machinery;
(iii)      agricultural development through strengthening of the
extension service and provision of transport for fruit and
vegetable marketing; provision of credit; expansion of fruit
tree nurseries and strengthening of horticulture research;
and demonstration of date palm rehabilitation;
(iv)      project management and training through provision of
expatriate and national staff, equipment, housing, etc.; and
training of farmers and technical and support staff; and
(v)      studies, i.e., flood and erosion study; strengthening of
agricultural economic analysis capacity in MAWR;
hydrological monitoring; and preparation of WH III.



-3-
Project Design and Organization
6.          The project concept and design were generally appropriate and
timely when the project was formulated, to ensure the effective utilization of
the land and water resources of the area, in line with the national goals and
the priority given to agricultural development. Following feasibility and
hydrogeological studies carried out by consultants under WH I, project
preparation was undertaken by the FAO/CP in 1981. The hydrogeological studies
had concluded that groundwater extraction could be safely expanded by 50
percent through greater use of the deep sandstone aquifer. The project design
included, in addition to the development of additional agricultural areas and
provision of agricultural machinery, the strengthening and building of
institutions, such as the cooperatives, Public Corporation for Marketing of
Fruit and Vegetables (PCMFV), Machinery Rental Stations (MRS), Agriculture
Research Center, Extension Service and Public Agriculture Services Corporation
(PASC), all of which were important for the sustainable development of
agriculture in Wadi Hadramawt. In addition, the Hadramawt area was singled
out by a parallel IDA-financed project, the Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (Cr. 1557-YDR), for support of the extension and research
capabilities through establishing priority research programs and establishing
multi-disciplinary research teams to work on the program and strengthening
linkage between research, extension and farming communities.
7.          WH II was prepared under a socialist government pursuing a policy
based on central planning of all economic activities. In this context,
agriculture in Hadramawt was controlled through four large cooperatives. The
project concept of sinking deep boreholes, installing electric submersible
pumps for the irrigation of levelled 50 ha farm units, managed collectively by
farmer groups under the cooperatives, was then appropriate and politically the
only feasible one. Central planning allowed full control of the major
resource, groundwater, and cooperatives delivered inputs, production services,
and market and transport facilities for output.
8.          Project organization was adequate, drawing on the staff and
facilities set up for coordinating the implementation of the earlier project.
Central and local advisory committees were also established (respectively,
responsible for the policy at national level, and the coordination of local
departments concerned with the project); however, they did not meet at the
regularly stipulated intervals. This hindered effective guidance of the
Project Management Unit (PMU) which, in spite of this, performed very well.
Credit intended to be used mainly for orchard establishment and for inputs was
barely required. Because of uncertainties on land rights, farmers did not
invest in orchards, and cooperatives had sufficient cash to purchase what farm
implements and agricultural inputs were available in the local market.
9.          The WH II project concept of working through cooperatives was
agreed between the Bank, other international donors and the PDRY Government.
However, in practice, the performance of the cooperatives was not consistent;
having been established by the Government for promoting agriculture and to
ensure the implementation of its agricultural policies, they were viewed by
farmers as organs of the administration. However, initially, they had a



- 4 -
positive effect on project performance and, under the socialist system of
government, they provided a vehicle for providing important services to
farmers, particularly for input supply and produce marketing. However,
following unification in 1990, and the changes in government policy especially
with regard to land ownership and the emphasis on privately owned holdings,
the scenario changed and the (public sector) cooperatives were unable to
function as effectively.
10.         The appraisal expectations on the ability of the cooperatively-
farmed blocks to efficiently manage their labor and machinery resources were
not fully realized within the short timeframe between completion of works and
unification when policies changed, leading to a relatively slower build up in
cropping intensities than originally envisaged. In order to assess the
situation with regard to labor, an analysis was made of the labor requirements
of a typical 50 ha farm unit following the proposed cropping pattern of the
SAR and compared with the actual cropping pattern of such a unit in 1988/89.
The analysis shows that at peak periods, farm units have to make efficient use
of existing farm labour resources in addition to resorting to hired labour.
In retrospect, it would appear that the SAR-projected cropping intensity of
93% (under the original concept of nine families per 50 ha unit) and the high
proportion of winter vegetable in the cropping pattern was too optimistic
particularly in the context of cooperative farming although, with adequate
agricultural planning the objectives could have been achieved thus avoiding
any decrease in project viability. With the changes of Government policy on
land ownership, and the smaller average size of holdings which is now likely
to prevail, the labor shortage is likely to be resolved with the improved
incentive environment for the farmers and through more family labor being
available from returnees from Gulf Countries. Eventual achievement of a 93%
cropping intensity at full development is therefore considered possible.
11.         The irrigation system was designed on the basis of an irrigation
duty of one 1 ltr/sec/ha. While this is adequate, based on the assumptions
made in the design regarding crop water requirements and irrigation
efficiencies, and peak irrigation hours per day, there is comment by some
farmers on the shortage of irrigation water necessary to achieve the cropping
intensities and patterns envisaged at appraisal. Water shortages are
heightened by the farmers' natural tendency to over irrigate, thus operating
at well below design efficiencies, due to the lack of extension work and of
adequate experience in irrigation agronomy amongst the extension and project
staff. The TA post of Irrigation Agronomist was not filled which is a major
fault, and it is now scheduled to be financed under the follow on WH III
project. It is worth noting that there is considerable variation in the
cropping intensities achieved, and that some of the better farming units have
achieved intensities envisaged at full development, thereby indicating that
water is not the main constraint to production, and that greater focus needs
to be given to improving extension services. With the benefit of hindsight,
the design of future irrigation projects should preferably consider keeping
operating hours to not more than about 16 hours per day at peak periods, with
a view to keeping periods of night irrigation to an acceptable level. It is
furthermore necessary to ensure an early and effective extension input to get
messages across to farmers on improving irrigation efficiencies. The recent



- 5 -
problems encountered with electrical power cuts of up to four hours per day is
a passing constraints which is being remedied by government through provision
of spare parts for the central electrical power station in Wadi Hadramawt.
12.         There is some indication that the SAR-postulated land levelling
planes were too large. This resulted in large quantities of earthworks, with
resulting cost overruns for the land levelling component, and exacerbated
problems of uniform water application; in many cases farmers have sub-divided
the large land levelling planes to facilitate water application. Farm
machinery field usage efficiencies decline slightly with smaller plot sizes,
but this is considered less important than achieving good water control at
reasonable cost. As earthwork quantities tend to increase with larger single
land levelled plane units, future land levelling should take this into
consideration and use smaller single units to keep the earthworks to
reasonable quantities per hectare.
13.         The Project Management Unit (PMU) consisted of five operational
sections in addition to the Headquarters and administrative/accounting staff
section. The sections include the Engineering, Agricultural, Water Monitoring
and Monitoring and Evaluation Sections, in addition to the Irrigation and
Maintenance Unit (IMU). The activities of these five sections are as follows:
(i)   Engineerinq Section.  This section was originally
incorporated into the Engineering Section supervising the
implementation of engineering works mainly as counterpart
staff to the consultants who carried out design and
supervision of the irrigation system. The section continues
to advise farmers on the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation infrastructure in addition to water management,
irrigation scheduling and improved irrigation practices.
(ii)  Agricultural Section.  In collaboration with the Engineering
Section, provides advice to farmers on land preparation for
improved surface irrigation practices. Section also assists
in preparation of crop calendar cropping patterns and
production programs in coordination with the Research and
Extension and the Agricultural Departments of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR) in Seiyun. The
section is also responsible for organizing training courses
for the farmers.
(iii) Water Monitoring Section. The section is responsible for
collection of climatological hydrometeorological and flood
data for the project area and Wadi Hadramawt in general.
This section has on the whole performed very well by
continuously monitoring water levels and quality in over
eighty observation wells in addition to monitoring frequency
and volumes of flood flows in the various Wadis.
(iv)  Monitoring and Evaluation Section.  This section has been
monitoring and recording valuable data since 1986 regarding



cost of agricultural production and various economic surveys
requested by MAWR. The performance of this section has been
very good and is continuing to perform the M&E role in the
interim period until follow on WH III has been finally
restructured.
(v)   Irrigation Maintenance Unit (IMU).  Three subunits have been
established to cover the project area. All three units are
operational and follow the O&M procedures given in the O&M
manual which was prepared by the Project and approved by
IDA. The IMUs are entrusted with inspection and
identification of maintenance requirements for the various
components of the irrigation project, farm roads, and flood
bunds extending some 90 km along the Wadi Hadramawt. The
section also advises farmers on minor repairs and makes
arrangements with the cooperatives, Agricultural Department
and Machinery Rental station to carry out major repairs.
Selective equipment for the section will be provided under
WH III Project. The section is a good example of a Project
O&M Unit which may be used on other projects.
Project Implementation
14.         Credit Effectiveness and Project Start up.  The project was
appraised in April, 1982 and the related IDA Credit was approved by IDA'B
Board on April 12, 1983 and then signed in April 28, 1983. The Credit became
effective in December 1983, however, project start up was delayed, pending
finalization of the project's financing plan. The loan agreements with the
Kuwait Fund and the Arab Fund were signed respectively, on December 13, 1983
and April 18, 1984. The financing plan as initially agreed was modified
during detailed discussions between the cofinanciers and the Government in May
1985, and IDA's Credit Agreement was formally amended in January 1986.
15.         Implementation Schedule.  The project was originally scheduled for
completion by June 30, 1989. The construction of boreholes, land levelling
and irrigation works were essentially completed by June 30, 1988. However,
due to delays in procurement of goods caused by the lengthy procedures of the
High Tender Board and other departments, in approving evaluation and award of
contracts, the project still had outstanding the procurement of certain items
when it was closed on June 30, 1992, after three one year extensions.
16.         Initial project agricultural activities started in 1987/88.  By
that time field engineering, which started in 1984/85, had been completed for
60% of the design area, and not all agricultural machinery packages had been
delivered. Only by 1988/89, one year after the original completion date, all
the farm units were fully operational. The delay was caused by a variety of
factors, the principal among which were: the delay in finalizing the financing
plan of the project (i.e., May 1985 instead of beginning 1984); political
disturbance in 1986 which disrupted activities and forced the technical
assistance personnel to leave for three months and delayed the contractor's
work for six months; the March 1987 floods, which damaged about 7 kms of PVC



- 7 -
pressure conveyance pipelines; time consuming procurement procedures; and the
limited decision-making authority delegated to the PMU in respect of
procurement. In addition, there were increases in the quantities of works
implemented; PVC pipelines were increased from 65 kms to about 103 kms, and
the average earthworks for land levelling increased from 305 to 564 cubic
meters per hectare which resulted in cost overrun for these items. Force
majeure factors hindering timely project completion occurred in 1990, i.e.,
the Gulf crisis which prolonged the procurement delays and the unification of
Yemen in 1990 which affected decision making at Ministerial level. Out of the
eight main contracts implemented, the most problematic one concerned the
procurement of farm machinery which was delayed by eighteen months. This
delay caused a serious setback to agricultural production in the initial years
(1986/87), since about 60 percent of the irrigation system had been completed
by the end of 1987, but could not be utilized due to the shortage of
machinery. Most of the agricultural tractors and other implements did finally
arrive towards the end of 1988.
17.         Implementation of the agricultural component has encountered some
difficulties with the yields being somewhat below the SAR targets. Reasons
for non-attainment of targeted yields and their erratic annual variations have
been attributable to: (i) lack of agricultural planning and support; (ii)
minor outbreaks of disease occasioned by humid conditions (for example, tomato
leaf virus in 1988/89); (iii) lack of timely and adequate provision of inputs
not only due to procurement problems, but also to external factors such as
floods, internal disturbances and the Gulf war; (iv) chronic lack of seed
potatoes which reached its nadir in 1991/92 due to production problems and
logistical constraints; and (v) lack of adequate extension coverage of the
project area.
18.         Cropping intensity, after rising to 65% in year 88/89, remained
more or less steady around that same level until 1991/92 when it dropped
sharply to 39%. This sudden drop was caused by land right disputes following
unification, which resulted in the shutdown of 23 out of 57 (40%) project
tubewells in the winter of 1991/92. The situation improved during summer
1992, and in October 1992 only nine were still non-operational. Other reasons
for initial cropping intensity shortfalls include: inadequate mechanized land
cultivation; a lack of extension messages and less than effective extension
service; insufficient research on chemical weed control; delays in procurement
of crop protection chemicals. It is, however, anticipated that with
correction of the faults and continuing the centralized system of management,
yields would have reached the target levels.
19.         The small orchard component to be carried out by farmers has so
far covered only 35 ha' (out of a planned 190 ha) of young trees raised in
the project fruit nursery at Shuhuh. This performance is due to the farmers'
hesitance to establish orchards because of land tenure uncertainties. Other
factors include shortage of good planting material and disinterest/lack of
awareness amongst project farmers due to poor demonstration and follow-up
i/    Part III. Table 4 Indicates that 107 ha of orchards have beon established. but this was done by the PIU.



- 8 -
procedures. Observation indicates that dates, figs, rough limes and lemons
grow well, but that tangerines (at least on tangerine rootstock) and grapes
suffer stress during the hot dry period. This aspect needs further research
and development work. An additional 107 ha consisting of 43 mini orchards 2.5
ha each have, however, been developed by the PMU distributed among the 50 ha
irrigation units. Improvements are needed for irrigation layouts and in water
scheduling. Shelterbelt techniques using 'hedges' of date palms should be
promoted. Use of shade netting over young trees might be appropriate.
Attention must be given to possible trace element deficiencies. Citrus
orchard development is an area of major weakness due to the total lack of
expertise in orchard husbandry, both on the Project and within the Research
and Extension services of MAWR. -Restoration of original land ownership should
have removed one of the major obstacles to the planting of tree crops and it
is anticipated that interest in fruit crops will grow, as they offer
potentially high returns to land and labor. This development must be
supported (if not spearheaded) by high quality technical advice and ready
availability of good planting material as well as markets. Expertise in
citrus husbandry should be strengthened at extension Subject Matter Specialist
(SMS) level.
20.         A total of 75 ha of sprinkler and drip irrigation were envisaged
for implementation as pilot farms under the project. The actual area
implemented was 62 ha (45 ha of sprinkler and 17 ha of drip), at two locations
(50 ha and 12 ha). This component was poorly implemented due to weak
agricultural planning and inadequate support of innovative technology and
because the 50 ha location was entrusted to a single family in a totally
inadequate manner, under which there was little commitment from the farmer.
The sprinkler system implemented would have required between 5 to 10 full time
farm workers for moving the laterals, which was obviously far more than the
labor available to the family and no labor was hired due to lack of proper
planning. The sprinkler system was thus not being used in the manner it was
intended. The IDA supervision missions made various proposals for better
utilizing the system; however, these were not implemented prior to Credit
closing, largely because of the lack of expertise and because the PMU was
unable to encourage other farmers to take over the land in the prevailing
period of uncertainty or to operate it through project means as a
demonstration farm. With the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that the
design of the sprinkler system and the size was not realistic, taking into
account the labor requirements and the land ownership issues. The apparent
failure of this modern sprinkler system, which was intended as a
demonstration, has implications for farmer confidence building which will need
to be re-established through the WH III project, to ensure that such efficient
systems of water application are widely adopted by farmers.
21.         Procurement.  The project's procurement consisted of eight major
contracts constituting about 68% of total project cost and they were
substantially completed by the end of 1990, including all civil works,
surveys, designs, studies, supervision, supply of pumping equipment, supply of
agricultural machinery, repair of flood damage and supply and installation of
62 ha of sprinkler and drip irrigation.



- 9 -
22.         In addition to the eight main procurement packages, there were
also fourteen additional activities in support of agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramawt including support of the PMU, establishment of fruit nursery,
support for public corporation for marketing fruits and vegetables,
strengthening Seiyun Extension Services and Seiyun Research Center in addition
to support for Seiyun Machinery Rental Station and local cooperatives. These
activities included procurement of machinery, vehicles and equipment and small
construction works.
23.         The generic problems associated with procurement on projects in
Yemen have also affected WH II. In particular, the contract for procurement
of agricultural machinery was delayed by eighteen months due to delays with
Central Tender Board during review and evaluation of recommendations for
award. This delay seriously affected agricultural production in the initial
period (1986/87) when about 60% of irrigation works had been completed and
ready for utilization.
24.         Further delays where also encountered in the final years of the
project (1990/92) mainly due to the Gulf Crisis. Difficulties were also
encountered in procurement of spare parts for agricultural machinery from the
original Yugoslav supplier due to the internal situation in that country.
25.         Prolect Cost.  The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was
about US$36 million. The final cost is about US$38.2 million as shown in
Table 5. The 6% increase is due mainly to the increased project area from
3,150 ha to 3,360 ha. The cost overruns on some of the construction
components was compensated for by savings in the overall project costs in
addition to reallocations in financing between Kuwait Fund and Arab Fund
loans, without increasing overall funding.
26.         Loan Allocation.  The original allocations for civil works under
the IDA credit were cancelled and reallocated to other items with civil works
being financed from Kuwait Fund and Arab Fund loans. There were further
reallocations between Kuwait Fund and Arab Fund financing and within the IDA
Credit as work progressed thus enabling optimization of resources to take into
consideration actual implementation requirements. Table 11 gives details of
loan allocations and disbursements.
27.         Disbursements.  Disbursements lagged behind the appraisal
projections, primarily on account of the delays experienced in project
implementation. The loan was closed on June 30, 1992, and the final
disbursement was made on November 11, 1992. IDA disbursements totalled SDR
7,640,685, and the undisbursed balance of SDR 659,314 (representing about 8
percent of the total Credit) was cancelled. The data available on cumulative
actual disbursements from the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund indicate that the
equivalent of US$12.4 million and US$10.4 million were disbursed,
respectively, by these agencies.



- 10 -
Proiect Results
28.         The irrigation developments were positive and in some cases even
exceeded the SAR expectations: established farm units were 70 against an SAR
target of 55; the groundwater irrigated area developed was 3,360 ha against
the SAR's target of 3,150 ha. The principal disappointment has been the
shortfall in agricultural production. In addition, it is clear that there was
need for further improvement in extension services and to develop more
focussed extension messages. The project has yet to make an impact in the
form of significantly improving rural incomes. Nevertheless, once the major
impediments have been overcome, and the implementation of WH III is initiated,
the revival of private entrepreneurship on smaller holdings than anticipated
by the SAR should help to improve agricultural production and should have a
greater impact on farm incomes. The project's impact on sector policies has
been mixed. In terms of cost recovery, the farmers have been paying for
irrigation pumps, farm machinery and project procured crop production inputs;
however, the Bank's perseverance on changes of some other policies, such as
the replacement of the production tax by an irrigation land improvement tax,
has had little result. The project has also had a favorable impact on the
physical and technological environment of the project area; however, if well
drilling is not effectively regulated under the terms of the recently passed
Council of Minister's decree, the project's impact could be reduced in the
medium and long-term due to the adverse effect of unregulated well drilling on
depletion of aquifer storage, lowering water levels and increased water
salinity.
29.         Project Impact.  The changed socio-political circumstances in the
Southern Governorates, particularly the ongoing changes in land ownership
patterns, have had a major impact in the project areas; it also makes it
difficult to assess the project's impact at this stage, including projections
for the future of a relatively reliable trend in agricultural production from
the project area. Under the new policy, lands which had been nationalized in
PDRY and were being cropped by farmers under tenancy arrangements with the
Government, are being returned to their original owners; these include areas
developed under the project. The underlying focus of the changes is to move
away from centrally managed agricultural operations to privately-owned
holdings. However, in the short term, the tenant farmers whose lands are
being returned are threatened with displacement; alternatively, they are
arranging new share cropping agreements with the original owners who are
repossessing their land. The Government is implementing a program for
developing state lands, which would be provided as compensation to the
displaced farmers; tenancy arrangements on these developed state lands are
emphasizing long leases, and smaller family holdings of around 2 ha. However,
these changes are still in the process of being fully implemented, and farmers
in the project areas are facing a transition period during which some
uncertainty prevails. This uncertainty has manifested itself in low cropping
intensities and production during the past three years.
30.         The Government has shown a resolve in addressing the land tenure
issues, and progress made in this regard is expected to lead to an increase in
cropping intensity levels. It is worth noting that cropping intensities



- 11 -
ranging between 77 to 108 percent have been attained by some of the smaller
farmers during 1991/92. In making projections for the future, it has been
assumed, in view of the gradual improvement of the situation in the area, that
the full development average cropping intensity of about 93% would be achieved
in year 13 (as compared to year 10 in the SAR); in addition, it is assumed
that full development yields would be reached over a period of ten years (as
compared to the appraisal assumption of five years). While conservative,
these assumptions take into account the effects of the hiatus caused by
political unification and the recent changes in Government policy. Since
smaller farms are being established and the private sector character of
farming is being emphasized, it has been assumed that the present cropping
pattern would change in the sense that more vegetables than at present would
be cultivated but, at the expense of wheat. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
of the project has been re-estimated (on a similar basis as the SAR analysis)
at 8.60 percent; this compares with the SAR estimate of 12 percent. The lower
ERR estimated in this PCR is mainly due to the significant delays experienced
in reaching the full development stage. Sensitivity analysis carried out
shows that if the temporary slump in production (on account of the reduction
in cropping intensities and average yields experienced) had not occurred
during the period 1989/90 to 1992/93, due to the political and policy changes
and the associated uncertainties which accompanied them, the project's re-
estimated ERR would have been around 11 percent. According to the SAR, a one-
or two-year delay would reduce the ERR to 10 percent and 8.2 percent
respectively and a 20 percent shortfall in benefits would cause it to drop to
7.9 percent.
Project Sustainability
31.         The project will begin to make a positive impact and play an
important role in providing increased agricultural production in a sustainable
manner, in the project area, once the immediate constraints of land tenure
issue has been finally resolved and the full impact of agricultural
privatization and reversion of farming lands to the original owners have been
completed. Uncontrolled drilling of boreholes appears to be occurring in the
Wadi following unification. In many cases, these works have been financed by
returning citizens. In some cases where land disputes have arisen and project
tubewells have become non-operational, farmers have constructed their own well
or continue to utilize existing shallow open wells, an activity which the
project attempted to end. These wells are often constructed by inexperienced
drilling firms with little knowledge of the necessary engineering
requirements.   In the uncertainty of land ownership and temporary shutdown of
some of the pumping units due to disagreements between farmers utilizing a
common pump (shutdown rates had been reduced to 16% by end of 1992), some
farmers have reverted to utilizing existing shallow wells or sinking new
shallow wells for irrigation purposes. Since the quality of water from the
upper alluvial and conglomerate aquifers is much inferior to the deeper
aquifer in the Mukala sandstone, from which project pumps abstract their
water, it is anticipated that farmers will revert to use of project pumps once
the land tenure issues are resolved. Further uncontrolled drilling may
seriously affect the availability of groundwater and contribute to soil
salinization if excessive water is extracted from the shallow aquifers and



- 12 -
hence effect project sustainability. Therefore, effective implementation of
the Water Decree and final resolution of all land tenure issues is fundamental
to ensure project sustainability in the long run.
32.         The groundwater consultant indicated in his report of 1988 that
there would be sufficient yield from the deeper aquifers to allow further
exploitation after WH II to allow development of up to 3,000 extra hectares of
irrigation area with a planned annual drawdown of some 500 mm/yr over 30 years
before an equilibrium is reached within the sandstone aquifer around the
year 2020. A recent review of the groundwater balance done by consultants in
July 1992 indicated that the deep Mukalla sandstone aquifer is indeed capable
of sustaining the anticipate abstraction for WH II and for WH III with a total
area of about 6500 ha.
33.         The program of support for the Wadi Hadramawt area is continuing
under the WH III, which was approved by the Board in June 22, 1989. However,
due to the uncertainties caused by the Gulf crisis of 1990, and its impact on
project financing, and the political unification of the two Yemens, physical
implementation of WH III was delayed. The WH III project has recently been
restructured, and its implementation provides a vehicle for continuing support
to the area, and facilitates the process of transition from the earlier
government contolled system to a largely private sector managed agriculture.
The revised design takes into account the changed political and economic
environment in the country, and draws upon the lessons learned from
implementing WH II.
34.         Electrical Energy and Water Delivery.  Reliability in the supply
of electric power in Wadi Hadramawt has encountered problems recently. Power
cuts (outages) of 2-4 hours per day have been reported regularly over the last
12 months. Farmers admit to taking power cuts into account when planning
areas of winter wheat. Interruptions in power supply can become a constraint
to increasing areas of crops that are easily intensified such as vegetables.
Restoration of the present generators to full operational condition by
importing spare parts is an essential requirement for project sustainability.
35.         Land Ownership Issues.  Land ownership issues have had disturbing
effects on agricultural development of WH II.  Government has, however,
indicated that these disputes will soon be resolved. It is imperative that
Government resolve the land ownership issue as soon as possible to allow
farmers to practice agriculture with full land tenure security. While the
government has taken steps towards the resolution of this issue, it is
important to recognize that in the absences of sustained efforts and
appropriate follow-up, there is a risk of the uncertainties continuing with
negative effects on farmer incentives. The latter will inevitably impact on
the ability of the project to fully realize the expected benefits. The
restructured WH III has been designed in a manner to assist the government to
address this issue.
36.         An important contributor to the sustainability of the project is
the availability of the PMU, which will, through the follow on WH III project,



- 13 -
provide continuity of services for the project area. This includes the
services of the project operation and maintenance unit which has had an active
role in maintaining project infrastructure, with farmer assistance, which is a
key element in the financial sustainability of the project.
37.         The privatization of the agricultural lands although creating some
initial delays and indecisions to full utilization of project components will,
nevertheless, harness the full productive capabilities of the farming
community. Of immediate importance is the need to ensure availability of
adequate foreign exchange to the private sector importers of agricultural
inputs and machinery spare parts and rationalization of public sector prices
for the inputs so as not to affect private sector initiatives.
Bank Performance
38.         The Bank's performance has been commended by the Borrower, both at
the conception/appraisal and subsequent implementation stages, where
supervision contributed effectively to the project's overall implementation.
In spite of considerable efforts by the Bank to convince the Borrower to
change the production tax into an irrigation land improvement tax, no decision
has been taken on this, to date. The production tax issue had been raised at
the time of completion of WH I and had been inserted as a covenant in the
Project Agreement of WH II. On the other hand, IDA's insistence on putting a
stop on unauthorized drilling, within the context of the Land and Water
conservation Project, has finally resulted in a Water Decree which, if
enforced effectively, would have the expected beneficial result. Arrangements
agreed with government during the restructuring of WH III provide for
appropriate institutional mechanisms to be put in place to ensure enforcement
of the Decree.
Borrower Performance
39.         Generally, the Borrower has been supportive of project objectives
during project planning and execution of physical works. Consultancies for
soil surveys, wadi studies, groundwater surveys and on-farm engineering design
have been completed on time. The PMU achieved a high standard of management
of the engineering components of the project, for excellent reporting and for
its thorough Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. Procurement of equipment and
materials under ICB arrangements, however, have created many problems,
primarily due to the Borrower's insistence on using the PDRY Central Tender
Board and, after unification, the Main Tender Board to process all tender
applications. Administrative delays, incorrect interpretation of IDA tender
procedures and further delays in preparation of tender documents resulted in
18 months delay in the supply of farm machinery. Serious delays in
procurement of fertilizers and crop protection chemicals for the cooperatives
and spare parts for the submersible pumps and farm machinery has finally led
to the accounts of Wadi Hadramawt Phase II being closed before all the
outstanding equipment and supplies could be procured.
40.         The Borrower has been less responsive to the recommendations of
various supervision missions concerning proposed changes to the statutes,



- 14 -
notably those concerning the agricultural production tax and statutes
affecting water abstraction. The Borrower has been reluctant to replace the
production tax with a more direct charge based on improved irrigated land. As
agreed under restructuring WH III, farmers would pay fully for the last of the
irrigation pumps and for farm inputs. They would also fully meet the
irrigation O&M cost. Farmers would contribute towards the cost of the civil
works through the production tax.
41.         Both, agricultural research and extension are weak in the fields
of irrigation agronomy and citrus husbandry and not all areas of the project
have received the desirable level of extension services. Other
specializations have had a better impact, although some of the extension staff
have yet to gain practical experience.
Project Relationship
42.         Relationship among all parties contributing to the project were
very good and constructive, which translated into a positive contribution
towards the implementation of the project. In particular, the frequent IDA
review missions which visited the project have been able, together with the
missions of the cofinanciers, to provide guidance and advice which was highly
appreciated by the PMU and the Borrower. These missions were instrumental in
assisting to resolve many of the constraints impeding project implementation
and suggesting viable solutions.
Consulting Services, Training and Contractor Performance
43.         The services of consulting engineers were generally timely and
satisfactory. Soil and groundwater surveys were completed in time. The
contractor for drilling wells worked steadily (apart from a short period of no
work due to the internal disturbances of early 1986 worked steadily) and
completed quality work on time and at a lower cost than the engineer's
estimate. The same company's contractor for irrigation works proceeded less
smoothly, but only lagged one year from original planned completion.
Construction quality of the works is very good. Timeliness of supply and
quality of the submersible pumps was good and installation proceeded smoothly.
Only one deep borehole yielded saline water and was replaced.
44.         Technical assistance provided by FAO aimed mainly at supporting
the Project Management Unit. It did, however, have an over-emphasis of
engineering expertise and not enough in irrigation agronomy which was required
once the project became operational. Expertise concerned included a Chief
Technical Advisor, who was an engineer, an Irrigation Engineer, an Agronomist,
a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist and a Production Economist and a
Horticulturist. The services of an Irrigation Agronomist which were foreseen
at a later stage of project implementation could not be made available due to
recruitment problems. This expertise is now to be provided under WH III. The
absence of agricultural expertise provided for the project may have
contributed to the shortfall in agricultural planning and performance during
the initial period.



- 15 -
45.         A total of thirty-seven project staff received overseas training
in nine countries totalling about 125 manmonths for periods varying between
one and ten months each in subject related to Agricultural Development, Water
Resources, surveying and irrigation skills, operation and maintenance, and
project management and administration. This compares with a total of 216
staffmonths of overseas training envisaged in the SAR.
Proiect Documentation and Data
46.         Project documents were well prepared and have given a sound
guidance to project execution. The Monitoring and Evaluation Section in the
Project Management Unit has performed very well and most data waB readily
available for preparation of the PCR. A lesson confirmed here, is that
monitoring and evaluation is an indispensable part of a Bank project. At
appraisal, a checklist should be made as to what data is required during
implementation of the project. Supervision missions should review the
checklist during implementation in the field and amend it, whenever necessary.
The project's reporting was also satisfactory with progress and audit reports
being submitted according to requirements of Credit Agreement and based on the
agreed implementation schedule.
Findings and Lessons Learned
47.         The main lessons and findings to be derived from the
implementation of the project are the following:
(i)      In an agricultural development project, the issues of land
tenure are of prime importance. Any indecision on, or
alterations to, ownership can have a negative effect on the
farming communities willingness to utilize a modern
irrigation system to its full potential.
(ii)      In an economic environment in which adjustments have to be
made from a planned to a market-based economy, the initial
period is bound to affect development projects which are
under implementation. Special care and flexibility is
required when dealing with and interpreting results of such
projects, in addition to allowing for adequate supervision
resources to enable the necessary adjustments to be made to
the project to ensure achievement of its objectives.
(iii)      To ensure the timely startup of project implementation, it
is necessary to reach full agreement on the financing plan
and procurement arrangements prior to Board presentation. A
one-year delay was encountered in project implementation as
a result of delays in finalizing the plan.
(iv)      To avoid cost overruns for irrigation and civil works
contracts, the project estimates should preferably be based
on detailed designs and not feasibility level designs.



- 16 -
(v)      In projects where significant increases in cropping
intensities and yields are envisaged, the project authority
should ensure timely implementation of agreed agricultural
production plans and focussed extension activities in
addition to the appointment of technical expertise and
backup of TA staff.
(vi)      Time consuming procedures for procurement in the concerned
Government departments and the Central Tender Board should
be streamlined to avoid delays to project implementation.
(vii)      Monitoring and evaluation is an indispensable part of a
project as has been shown in this project. An M&E Unit will
ensure that the project is adequately monitored and, if
necessary, adjustments introduced during implementation.
The project's M&E Unit has performed extremely well and
considerable data has been acquired and well documented and
was made available for preparation of the PCR.
(viii)      Greater financial and administrative authority should be
delegated to Project Management Units to improve their
performance and thus ensure timely completion of projects.
(ix)      Units of land levelling planes should be considered
carefully at the design stage to ensure that units are not
oversized leading to excessive earthmoving requirements and
difficulty of maintaining irrigation uniformity. A further
design point which needs consideration is the maximum number
of irrigation operating hours per day which should
preferably not exceed 16 hours.
(x)      Where demonstration farms of modern irrigation systems
(sprinklers, drip) are envisaged, these should be small in
size (not larger than one to two hectares). One such sample
should be operated by the project as an initial
demonstration and eventually follow on units to be installed
on farmers land to be operated and maintained by the farmer.
(xi)      For a comprehensive approach to agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramawt, serious consideration should be given to the
establishment of an Agricultural Development Authority in
the project area to ensure that agricultural activities such
as extension and research are given fuller coverage by the
project and that extension and other agricultural activities
are integrated with mainstream project activities. The
establishment of a Project Authority would also give the
necessary autonomy to ensure adequate forward planning in
both agricultural and implementation aspects of the project
and a more efficient implementation and operational system.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1346-YDR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower has produced a detailed Completion Report as their
contribution to Part II of the PCR. The main extracts regarding performance
and lessons learend are as follows:
1.    Evaluation of Bank. AFESD and KFAED Performance
All the funding agencies: IDA, AFESD and KFAED made a positive
contribution to the physical and institutional development and
supported the Government's efforts to increase agricultural
production aiming to achieve self-sufficiency and minimize the
imports of food grains and to improve the living standards of
farmers in Wadi Hadramawt. Their performance has been
satisfactory and the periodic supervision missions of IDA, AFESD
and KFAED generally consisted of highly qualified and competent
teams of experts and their observations and advice has been very
constructive and useful. They helped to resolve many constraints
and serious issues by discussing the matters at higher level of
Government and suggesting feasible solutions. There has generally
been good understanding between mission members and PMU. The
constructive dialogue between the funding agency staff and the
executing agency helped very much during project implementation
and in preparation and appraisal of the follow-on Third Wadi
Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project.
The PMU and MAWR express their apologies to the funding agencies
for not being able to provide full assistance when missions'
visits coincided with Public Holidays.
The supervision efforts of the funding agencies have been adequate
with IDA missions visiting the project on average three times a
year while AFESD and KFAED visited site on average once a year due
to other commitments.



- 18 -
2.    Relationships Between Cofinanciers and the Borrower
The success of the project, despite the serious consequences of
unforeseen events like the January 1986 internal disturbances,
floods and the Gulf crisis, is the result of the amicable and
cordial relationships between the Bank (IDA), AFESD, KFAED, the
Government of the Republic of Yemen and the Project Management and
consultants. An additional contributing factor was the keen
interest and high level of professionalism of all the parties
involved.
3.    Performance of Consultants and Contractor
(a)   FAO Technical Personnel: All the experts fielded by the Food
and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
were highly qualified and competent including CTA and five
other experts whose performance was quite satisfactory.
(b)   Engineering Consultants:  Two U.K. based consultants were
engaged for the long-term Wadi Rehabilitation Study and the
Civil Works designs and supervision. Both consultants
performed satisfactorily.
(c)   The performance of the Chinese contractor for drilling of
project boreholes was commendable while the performance of
the Chinese contractor for implementation of irrigation
works (another branch of same Chinese contractor for
boreholes) was somewhat slower, however, quality of works
and final completion was also satisfactory.
4.    Lessons Learned
(a)   Project vehicles and spares should be procured as soon as
possible at the beginning of the project to ensure effective
utilization of expatriate and local project personnel.
(b)   Lengthy procedures of the Central Tender Board in reviewing
and approving tender evaluation reports should be
streamlined.
(c)   To avoid cost overruns, the costing of irrigation and civil
works should be based on the detailed designs and not
feasibility stage designs.
(d)   Demonstration farms should be instituted early in the
project cycle to demonstrate to farmers increased cropping
intensity, yields and production.
(e)   Subsidies to farmers should not be provided, such as cost of
electricity which was born by the project for operating the
50 ha pilot sprinkler and drip systems in Juaymah which



- 19 -
resulted in lack of interest by farmers once the subsidy was
stopped.
(f)   The technical assistance component requires to be flexible
to allow engaging expatriate staff and consultants as the
needs arise during implementation.
(g)   PMU should coordinate with outside organizations
particularly with the Research and Extension and
Agricultural Department to provide training for the farmers
to help boost production and obtain full benefits of the
project.
(h)   Consultant must ensure designs and construction details are
made available to the contractor to avoid delays in
construction work.
(i)   Levying of water charges is essential to encourage the
optimum utilization of the groundwater resources.
(j)   Government should make adequate provision of foreign
exchange in the annual budget to ensure timely procurement
of adequate quantities of inputs needed for the project
(seeds, fertilizers and chemicals).
(k)   The administrative authority given to the project at PMU
level should be increased and the chain of command made
flexible to improve efficiency.
(1)   Adoption of buried pipelines conveyance system (for future
work) should be considered as an alternative to open channel
conveyance.
(m)   To economize water use efficiency hybrid grasses should be
encouraged to replace alfalfa to reduce water consumption.






- 20 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title              Year of    Status               Comments
and Purpose                 Approval
- Cr 615-YDR. WHADP I built up             1976      Closed               This project was the
infrastructure and institutions, and                                    preparatory for
carried out pilot developments in                                       WHADP II.
area of WHADP 11. Also intended to
provide follow on support for
WHADP II
- Cr 1557-YDR. Strengthening               1985      Closed
agricultural research and extension
capacity in the three main agro-
ecological regions of the previous
PDRY, one of which was Hydramawt
- Cr 2045-YDR. WHADP III has been          1989      Being restructured due
a follow-up of WHADP II with                       to change in land
intention to expand irrigated area                 tenure policy of
Government after
unification of the two
Yemens.



Table 2. Project Timetable
Item                          Date Planned         Date Revised           Actual Date
- Identification               October 1981            -                    October 1981
- Preparation                  Jan.;Feb. 1982          -                    Jan./Feb. 1982
- Appraisai NMission           Mlarch 24, 1982         -                    March 24, 1982
- Board Approval               April 12, 1983          -                    April 12, 1983
- Credit Signature             April 28, 1983          -                    April 28, 1983
- Credit Effectiveness         August 29, 1983       October 28, 1983       December 30, 1983
December 30, 1983
- Completion                   December 31, 1988   December 31, 1989        November 30, 1991
December 31, 1990
December 31, 1991
- Closing                      June 30, 1989         June 30, 1990          June 30, 1992
June 30, 1991
June 30, 1992
The project was extended three times for the following reasons: (i) internal problems in January 1986
necessitated evacuation of contractor, consultants and FAO staff; (ii) floods in 1987; (iii) floods in March 1989;
(iv) Gulf crises in 1990; (v) unification of the two Yemens in 1990; (vi) procurement procedures were
cumnbersome and time consuming all through the project; and (vii) average earth quantities to be moved nearly
doubled due to lengthening of PVC pipeline.



- 22 -
Table 3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
......... .(SDR million for WB Fiscal Years) .
1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Appraisal Estimate                 1.94  4.06  5.62  6.73   7.65   8.30   8.30   8.30  8.30
Actual                             0.41   1.20  1.55  2.79   3.39   5.26   6.11   6.89  7.33
Actual as %' of Estimate           21    30    28    41    44    63        74    83    88
Date of Final Disbursement: November 11, 1992
Comments:  Actual disbursement in SDRs was less than estimated in the Development Credit
Agreement, while actual disbursement in US$ exceeded the SAR estimate, both due to
devaluation of the USS relative to SDR.



- ;Z3 -
Table 4. Project Implementation
Indicators                  Appraisal Estimate   Actually Achieved/Provided
Farm Units (50 ha each)                              55                         70
Deep Tubewells                                       55                         57
Land Levelling of Irrigation Construction         3,150 ha                   3,360 ha
Improvement Spate Irrigation                       200 ha                     200 ha
Sprinkler/Drip Irrigation                           75 ha                     62 ha"
Cropping Intensity                                  93%                       65%2'
Electrification of existing tubewells                20                         20
Rehabilitation of wadi training                    4 sites                    13 sites
Provision of tractor/equipment sets                  50                        60"
Strengthening Field Extension                         -              Vehicles, motorcycles and
equipment provided
Rehabilitation of date orchards                     50 ha                      6 ha
Strengthening PCFMV                                4 trucks                  4 trucks
Medium Credit for orchard                          190 ha            Credit was not required;'41
142 ha of orchards have been
established
Seasonal Credit for Inputs                                            Credit was not required
Expand scope of fruit tree nursery                                 Nursery established at Shuhuh
" Of this 12 ha destined for drip irrigation is not effectively operating.
I t should be noted that there was variation between years and between units, and in some instances the 90%
objective was met.
3/  In addition seven large tractors and 19 types of implements and equipment were also provided and distributed.
4'   The 142 ha of orchards were established by the farmers as well as by the Project. The Project so far established 2.5
ha in 43 farm units, i.e. 107 ha, while the farmers established 35 ha before 1990. After 1990 farmers were hesitant
in establishing orchards themselves, due to land tenure uncertainties.



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs"
(UJS$ million)
..............  Appraisal Estimate ................................... Actual ....|
Local           Foreign           Total             Local           Foreign            Total
Irrigation Development                           6.28             11.20            17.48             3.79             22.07            25.86
Drilling and well lmpr.                          1.46             6.01              7.47             1.21              3.82             5.03
Construction Unit                                0.57             0.86              1.43             0.15              0.67             0.82
Land Levelling and Conveyance System             3.61             3.89              7.50             1.70             12.67            14.37
Spate, Sprinkler and Drip Irrig.                 0.64             0.44              1.08             0.10              0.39             0.49
Survey, Design and Constr. Superv.                                                   -               0.55              1.65             2.20              1
Electr. Pumps and Install.                                                                           0.03              2.21             2.24               _
Flood Damage Repair Works                                          -                 -               0.04              0.66             0.70
Agricultural Development                         0.88             2.36              3.24             0.22              4.17             4.39
Agric. Extension Services'                       0.33             0.23              0.56             0.03              0.16             0.19
Orchards Credit (Mid-Term)                       0.18             0.04              0.22               -                -
Nursery/Hort. Research                           0.10             0.06              0.16             0.19              0.16             0.35
Date Palm Demonstration                          0.15             0.18              0.33               -               0.01             0.01
Farm Machinery                                   0.09              1.64             1.73              -                3.09             3.09
Production CR/Short-Term                         0.04             0.21              0.25              -                0.75             0.75
" Descrepencies due to rounding.
L Extension activities in the project area were complemented by activities under the IDA-financed agricultural research and extension project
(CR 1557-YDR).



Tablc 5. Project Costs and Finaiicing
Continuation of previous page
l ........... . Appraisal Estimate ............. ................. .Actual .
l  Local  |    Foreign           Tolal             Local      |     Foreign      |     Total
Project Management                           0.91             2.72             3.63             1.18               3.46              4.64
Expatriate Staff                              -               1.87             1.87               -                2.46              2.46
Local Staff                                  0.76              -               0.76             0.92                -                0.92
Equipment/Housing                            0.09             0.41             0.50               -                0.25              0.25
Training                                     0.03             0.29             0.32               -                0.36              0.36
Operating Costs                              0.03             0.14             0.17             0.26               0.39              0.65
Studies and Flood Control                    0.79             2.86             3.65             0.20               3.07              3.27        U
Proj. Prep. Advance (PPF)                                     0.48             0.48               -                0.39             0.39
Hydro Geological Monitoring                   -               0.04             0.04
Proj. Prep. Future Project                   0.16             0.65             0.81             0.02               0.19              0.21
Flood Control Support                        0.63             1.47             2.10             0.18               2.48              2.66
Agric. Price Evaluation Studies               -               0.22             0.22
Total Base Costs                             8.86            19.14            28.00             5.38              32.76             38.14
Physical Contingencies                       0.87             1.82             2.69
Price Contingencies                          1.85             3.43             5.28
TOTAL COSTS                                  11.58           24.40            35.98             5.38              32.76             38.14
Comments: Reasons for exceeding estimated costs are explaincd in coniments of Table 5B.



- 26 -
Page 3 of 3
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
B. Project Financing
(USS'000)
Sources of Finance         Original Credit/Loan       Revised Credit/Loan        Actual
Agreement                 Agreement             Financing
IDA                               9,000                      9,000                9,384
AFESD                             12,000                    12,000                12,500
KFAED                             10,600                    10,600                10,701
UNDP                                200                       200                   200
DOMESTIC                          4,200                      4,200                5,363
TOTAL                          36,000                     36,000               38,148
Comments:  During implementation the exchange rate for the US$/SDR and US$/KD increased
respectively from SDR I = US$ 1.084 to US$ 1.237 and from KD I = US$ 3.243 to
US$ 3.515. The implication of the table is therefore erroneous; in reality the amounts of
funds available were not fully utilized. IDA was committed to finance SDR 8.30 million,
but in fact financed SDR 7.33 million (see Table 3). According to the Project Management
Unit, AFESD was committed to finance KD 3.7 million, but only KD 3.53 million were
utilized; KFAED was committed to provide KD 3.40 million and only KD 3.07 million was
utilized.



- 27 -
Table 6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits"
Appraisal Estimate           Estimate at Closing Date
Beneficiaries                             925 families                    925 families
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate                PCR Estimate
Economic Rate of Return                      12%                            8.60 %
Underlying assumptions were similar to the SAR (which excluded the project cost items that did not
directly contribute to the operation of the Farm Units, such as the costs for spate, sprinkler/drip
irrigation, flood damage repair, nursery/horticulture research, and studies) except that the prices and
costs were estimated in constant 1991 values and all non-tradeable commodities and costs were valued
at economic prices with the help of a 0.67 SCF application. The investment costs before 1991 were
converted into 1991 constant values using the G-5 countries MUV index.
V' The Bank Conversion Factor for Yemen of 0.67% has been applied on the local costs to account for
distortions (primarily exchange rate overvaluation).
C. Studies
Study                           Purpose                            Status     Impact of Study
Flood and Erosion Control      To prepare long-term erosion     Completed  Work proposed not
control and spate irrigation                   yet constructed
management measures
WHADP HI Feasibility           To expand agricultural           Completed  Proposed project is
development in Hydramawt                     now being financed
by World Bank
" No other Direct Benefits were indicated in the report.



- 28 -
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Covenant               Subject               Deadline               Status
in Credit Agreement
3.02 (d)     Employment of local       September 30, 1983      Complied with.
personnel as specified in
Schedule 5 of the CA.
3.03 (a)     Establishment of CCSE     December 1, 1983        Complied with.
including a permanent
Secretariat of Irrigation
and Mechanical
Engineering Department.
3.03 (b)     Maintenance of Local                              Complied with.
Advisory Committee
established under the
Wadi Hadramawt I
Project.
3.05 (d)     Preparation of            December 31, 1989       Complied with.
Completion Report.         March 31, 1992
3.08         Establishment of Farm    September 30, 1983       Complied with.
Units within the            June 30, 1987
Cooperatives.
4.01         Maintenance and                  -                Complied with.
submission of records,
separate accounts and
audit reports.
4.02         Abolish direct production        -              Not complied with.
tax and introduce
irrigation improvement
charge.



-29                                      Page I of 2
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                  Planned      Revised      Actual         Comments
Through Appraisal                         n.a.    -    -           113.7
Appraisal through Board Approval           n.a.         -            4.4
Board Approval through Effectiveness      n.a.          -           n.a.
Supervision FY 1983                       n.a.          -            1.0
Supervision FY 1984                       n.a.          -            4.0
Supervision FY 1985                       n.a.          -           11.1
Supervision FY 1986                       n.a.          -            6.8
Supervision FY 1987                       n.a.          -           13.0
Supervision FY 1988                       n.a.          -            9.7
Supervision FY 1989                       n.a.          -           10.1
Supervision FY 1990                       n.a.          -           13.0
Supervision FY 1991                       10.0         11.0         14.8
Supervision FY 1992                       10.0         11.0          7.1
Project Completion FY 1993                 8.0         8.0          10.0''
Sub-total from 1991                      28.0        30.0         31.9
GRAND TOTAL                              n.a.        n.a.        218.7
"   Estimated.



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
1B. Missions
Montli/Year   No. of |Days in            Specialisation        1'erformance      Types of          Comments
I 1'ersons    Field        lRepresented"            Rating"        Problems"
Through Appraisal                         FY 1982         5        n.a.          AGR, ENG, EC
FY 1983         2        n.a.            EC, ENG
Appraisal through Board Appraisal         FY 1983         2        n.a.             EC, ENG
Board Approval through Effectiveness        n.a.         n.a.      n.a.               n.a.
Supervision  1                              10/83          1        7                 ENG                     I
Supervision 2                               9/84          2         14             ENG, AGR                   I              P
Supervision 3                                7/85         2        20               ENG, EC                   I              M
Supervision 4                               7/86          2         14V             ENG, EC                  2               M
Supervision  5                              4/87          2        284'             ENG, EC                  2               M                               W
Supervision 6                               11/87         2        284'             ENG, EC                  2               M                               o
Supervision 7                               3/88           1        i 041             ENG                    2               M
Supervision 8                              1-2/89         3         104'         EC, ENG, AGR                 I
Supervision 9                               10/89         3         12           EC, ENG, FMS                2               F
Supervision 10                              7/90          4        27          EC, ENG, FA, AGR              2
Supervision 11                              10/90         2         8               ENG, EC                  3               LF
Supervision 12                              7/91          4        n.a."      EC, ENG, AGR, ACC              3             M, LF
Supervision 13                              9/91          2         11              EC, ENG                  3             M, LF
Supervision 14                              2/92           1       n.a.               ENG                   n.a.            n.a.
EC = Economist; ENG = Engineer; AGR   Agriculturist; FMS   Farm Machinery Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; ACC = Accountant.
I = problem free or minor problemns; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems.
3   P = Political; M = Managerial; F = Financial; LF = Lack of Funds.
Form No. 590 - 6/85 used for Supervisions 4 through 8 did not record days in the field/country. The figures shown are taken from the Supervision mission aide-memoires.
"   Form 590 indicates 0 week staff in field.



- 31-                                      Page 1 of 3
Table 9
WADI HADRAMAWr PHASE II: PAST AND PROJECTED PERFORMANCE (1987 to 2012)
Project Area Development: Actual and Projected (Full Development) Perfomance
Actual Performance            Projected
YEAR: 87/88   88189  89/90   90191   91/92   2011/12
Designed gross command area (GCA) ha:              1840   3360   3360   3360   3360    3360
Net commandable area (NCA) (90% Of GCA) ha:        1656   3024   3024   3024   3024    3024
AREAS IRRIGATED FROM PROJECT TUBEWELLS (hectares)
WINTER CROPS                              YEAR: 87/88   88/89  89/90   90/91   91/92   2011/12
Wheat (HYV)                                         431    970    918    825    356         870
Wheat (local)                                                60      70    120    103       350
Sorghum (w)                                                         36      29      11
Sesame (w)                                                                  21       2
Onions                                               19      66     46      42      33      162
Tomatoes                                              10     35      29     25      17       63
Potatoes                                             19      47    107      55       2      126
Garlic                                                10            33      29      28      147
Sub-total winter                  ha                489   1178   1239   1144    552    1718
Winter cropping intensity         %                  30      39     41      38      18       57
SUMMER CROPS
Sorghum (s)                                         212    350    315    384    350         550
Sesame (s)                                           45      74     55      45      30       55
Water melons                                          10              7      4       3       27
Sweet melons                                          5              5       5       2       21
Coriander                                                                   18       5       11
Others                                                      173    116      37      27       50
Sub-total summer                  ha                272    597    498    493    417         714
Summer cropping intensity         %                  16      20     16      16      14       24
PERENNIAL CROPS
Alfalfa                                              77    163    176    166    136         175
Fruit orchards (Block 1)                                                    35      35       37
Fruit orchards (Block 2)                                                                     82
Fruit orchards (Block 3)                                                                    80
Sub-total perennial               ha                 77    163    176    201    170        374
Perennial cropping intensity      %                   5       5      6       7       6       12
GRAND TOTAL CROPPED               ha                838   1938   1914   1837   1138    2806
mamfl -=Wfl     . ...    - =        , _==- _   n  ,._   a.
OVERALL CROPPING INTENSITY   %                       51      64     63      61      38      93
=-n     .nn  m_nn  a.... _._ ..." - ----,-



-     -                                  Page 2 of 3
Table 9
Project Yield Development: Actual and Projected (Full Development) Yields In t/ha Performance
Actual Performance           Projected
WINTER CROPS                           YEAR: 87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92   2011/12
Wa Y_gn2   2.45    1.34   2.07   2.04    2.90----
Wheat (HYV): grain                               2.37   2.45    1.34   2.07   2.04    2.90
Wheat (HYV): straw (t:1)                         2.37   2.45    1.34   2.07   2.04    2.90
Wheat (local): grain                                    1.68   0.89   1.33   1.06    1.72
Wheat (local): straw(1:1.7)                             2.86   1.51   2.27   1.80    2.92
Sorghum (w): grain                                              1.47   0.90   1.06    1.63
Sorghum (w): stover                                            7.36   4.50   5.30    8.17
Sesame (w)                                                             0.43   0.58    0.72
Onions                                          12.99  17.61   12.61   15.01  14.06   31.17
Tomatoes                                        11.56  16.31    9.75   9.04  12.96   22.58
Potatoes                                        15.40  11.97   9.60  10.88  13.00   21.18
Garlic                                           6.48   7.46   4.52   4.14   5.21      8.13
SUMMER CROPS
Sorghum (s): grain                               1.25   1.12    1.33   1.15   1.21    2.35
Sorghum (s): stover                              6.25   5.60   6.65   5.74   6.06    11.77
Sesame (s)                                       0.52   0.15    0.37   0.64   0.42    0.70
Water melon                                      5.65   3.43   3.46   1.50   3.51    13.55
Sweet melon                                      2.39   1.40   2.16   0.80   1.69    7.90
Coriander                                                              0.83   0.83    1.06
Others                                                         6.00   7.51   6.76    9.14
PERENNIAL CROPS
Alfalfa                                         32.00  69.33   70.00  69.29  60.15   80.23
Fruit orchards (Block 1)                                                              2.00
Fruit orchards (Block 2)                                                              4.00
Fruit orchards (Block 3)                                                              6.00



- 33 -
Table 9                                             Page 3 of 3
Project Production: Actual and Projected (Full Development) in metric tons
Actual Performance             Projected
WINTER CROPS                             YEAR: 87188  88189   89/90   90/91   91/92   20f 1/12
Wheat _HY--- grain  1023   237    1227   1705  7  2526---
Wheat (HYV): grain                                  1023   2377   1227   1705    727    2526
VWheat (HYV): straw (1: 1)                          1023   2377   1227   1705    727    2S26
Wheat (local): grain                                        101      63    160    109        600
Wheat (local): straw(1:1.7)                                 171    107    272    185    1021
Sorghum (w): grain                                                   53      26      12
Sorghum (w): stover                                                 267    130       60
Sesame (w)                                                                    9       1
Onions                                              247   1162    580    623    460    5050
Tomatoes                                             116    571    283    226    216    1423
Potatoes                                            293    563   1027    594         27    2668
Garlic                                                65            147    118    147    1195
Sub-total winter                                   2765   7321   4981   5568   2670   17008
SUMMER CROPS
Sorghum (s): grain                                  265    392    419    441    424         1295
Sorghum (s): stover                                 1325   1960   2095   2204   2121        6476
Sesame (s)                                            24     11      20      29      13       38
Water melons                                          57             24       6      11      366
Sweet melon                                           12             11       4       3      166
Coriander                                                                    15       4       12
Others                                                              696    278    180        457
Sub-total summer                                    1682   2363   3265   2977   2756    8809
PERENNIAL CROPS
Alfalfa                                             2464  11301  12348  11474   8121    14040
Fruit orchards (Block 1)                                                                      74
Fruit orchards (Block 2)                                                                     328
Fruit orchards (Block 3)                                                                     480
Sub-total perennial                                2464  11301  12348  11474   8121    14922
- =        .-X              - ----  ---S-
GRAND TOTALTONNAGE ('000 tonnes)                    6911  20985  20594  20019  13547   40739
-----   -----   ----    -----   ---= -    -----
NOTES:
1. Historic performance used up to 1991/92 winter.
2. 1987/88 to 1991/92 yields averaged for 1992 summer season and for 1992193, then rapidly increased
over 5 years (1993 to 1997) to some 63% of research yields, except where considered unattainable by farme
3. Yields from 1997/98 to 2012 projected to increase by 0.5% per annum.
4. This table models good SAR projected performance levels to 93% cropping intensity by project year 10.
SOURCES: Project M & E unit for historic data, SAR projections, and reported best research results for
yields adjusted by mission to 63h to reflect average farmer achievement levels.



Table  10.  SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                       ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
|      INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN:            8.60%
Project Year          1984      1985      1986     1987      1988      1989     1990      1991      1992     1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1998
Revenues                                           1440      3719     3082      3278      1993      3448     4427      5768      7122     8417      8566      8742
Operating Costs                                     759      1602      1852     1760       998     2034      2267      2540      2757     2969      2969      2969
Investment Costs    573.47   6062.06    4189.8  11509.3  7513.73   3476.07   2832.55    1381.2   540 06         0         0         0         0        0         0
Total Costs            573      6062     4190    12268       9116     5328      4592      2379     2574      2267      2540      2757     2969      2969      2969
Net Benefits          -573    -6062    -4190   -10829    -5397    -2246    -1314          -385       874     2160      3227      4365     5448      5597      5773
Project Year          1999      2000     2001      2002      2003     2004      2005      2006     2007      2008       2009       2010        2011
4.-
Revenues              8862      8862     8862      8862      8862     8862      8862      8862      8862     8813       8788       8666        8491                        1
Operating Costs       2969      2969     2969      2969      2969      2969     2969      2969      2969     2969       2969       2969        2969
Investment Costs         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0          0          0          0
Total Costs           2969      2969     2969      2969      2969      2969     2969      2969      2969     2969        2969      2969        2969
Net Benefits          5894      5894     5894      5894      5894      5894     5894      5894      5894     5844       5819       5697        5522



- 35 -
Table 11.  DONORS AND GOVERNMENr CONTRIBUTION                     Page 1 of 3
IDA Credit: 1346-YDR
Latest   Disburs.       Balance
Original    Revised   As of           As of
Allocation Allocation Nov.12, 92   Nov.12, 92
|Cate orv             Description                (SDR)       (SDR)   (SDR)            (SDR)
(1)    Erui ment
(a) Under part A(2) of the project   622,000
Under Part B of the project           -      2,265,161  2,187,213.62 77,947.38
(b) Under Part A(4) of the project   178,000    317,607    317,606.00               1
(c) Under Part C (1) and (2), and
D of the project, including
prefabricated housing unit          570,000    460,000    461,753.66 -1,753.66
(2)    Civil Works
591,000   cancelled
(a) Under Part A(2) of the project
(b) Under Part A(4) of the project   674,000   cancelled
(3)    Consultants Services and Overseas
Training
(a) Under Parts D, E and F(2) and  2,104,000  2,680,000  2,688,030.63   -8030.63
(3) of the Project
(b) Under Part F(1) of the project   890,000    791,497    791,497.74          -0.74
(4)    Operating Costs of HPO II
(excluding                             163,000    311,508    360,610.82 -49,102.82
the Execution Unit)
(5)    Farm inputs and Orchard                 429,000    8.5,227    362,123.04 453,103.96
Establishment
under part C(3), (4) and (5) of
the project (aggregate amounts
expended during the first year and
the incremental amounts expended
in subsequent years
(6)    Initial Deposit in Special Account   267,000    257,000    78,126.24  178,873.76
to Pre-finance items under
categories 1(C), 2(a) and (b) and
3(a) above
(7)    Refunding of Project Preparation        460,000    393,719   393,719.56          -0.56
Advance
(8)    Un-allocated                          1,343,000       8,280                  8,280.00
TOTAL      8,300,000  8,300,000  7,640,681.31  659,318.6
Note: Disbursed and Balance figures rounded to the nearest whole number.



KFAED Loan No: 255 Table l. DONORS AND GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION                       Page 2 of 3
Latest   Disburs.    Balance
Original    Revised   As of         As of
Catecror               Description              Allocation Allocation Jan 1, 92  Jan. 1, 92
late~orv               Descriotion                 (SDR)       (KD)      (KD)         (SDR)
(1)    Construction and Development of        2,030,000
Boreholes
(a) Construction of new boreholes          -      1,220,000  1,209,893    10,107
(b) Deepening of existing wells            -
(c) Pumpsets                               -        390,000    385,949      4,051
(d) Construction supervision of            -        205,000    196,988       8,012
boreholes
(e) Installation of pumpsets and           -        155,000      92,321    62,679
pumphouses
(2)    Phase III studies                        180,000       7,000      6,550        450
(3)    Flood control works in Wadi and
repair of canals and irrigation           88,000    280,000    264,588    15,412
works in Tarim
(4)    Project management and training
312, 000
Irrigation works and land levelling
-       600,000    579,480    20,520
(5)    Standby pumps, water meters, and
siphon pipes                                         40,000      23,244    16,756
(6)    Additional consultant services for
supervision works                                    50,000      47,497      2,503
(7)    Repair of flood damage works in
project area                                         120,000    119,998          2
(8)    Gabion protection for flood bunds
30,000      -         30,000
(9)    Drilling and development of one
tubewell with conveyance system                      35,000      48,703  -(13,703)
and a pumphouse in Tarim
(10)    Additional spare parts for
switchboards of project's pumps                      15,000      19,869   -(4,869)
(11)    Procurement of PVC pipes, dia 250mm,
and 200mm for Irrigation and                          15,000                15,000
Maintenance
Unit of project
(12)    Consulting engineering services for
the preparation of Design and Tender                190,000                190,000
Documents for Phase III
(13)    Reserve/un-allocated
*790,000     48,000                 48,000
TOTAL
3,400,000  3,400,000  2,995,081   404,919
NOTE: This un-allocated amount is only for categories (1) and (2) above and not
applicable to other categories (original allocations). Source from WH P.M.U.



- 37 -
Page 3 of 3
Table 11.  DONORS AND GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
AFESD Loan No: 131/84
Latest   Disburs.   Balance
original    Revised   As of       As of
Allocation Allocation Jan 1, 92 Jan. 1, 92
[Category              Description                  (SDR)       (KD)       (KD)      (SDR)
(a)     Irrigation Development Works:          1,420,000  3,000,000  2,903,000   96,992
Irrigation works and                   400,000
Land levelling
Agricultural Development Works:
Agricultural Implements                480,000
Development of Nurseries and            20,000
Agricultural Research
Consultant Services                               275,000    262,367   12,633
Consultant Services:
Preparation of design and
supervision of construction            400,000
Procurement of gabions for                        200,000    243,337  -(43,337)
flood protection
(d)    Miscellaneous Agricultural Equipment                  75,000      51,324    23,676
and Two Vehicles for Phase III
(e)    Repair of Flood Damage Works in                      100,000      66,337    33,663
Project Area
(f)    Reserve/un-allocated                      980,000     50,000                50,000
TOTAL           3,700,000  3,700,000  3,526,374   173,626
Note: Source from W.H. P.M.U.



