Document of
The World Bank                                   FILE CORY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4127-YDR
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
March 24, 1983
Projects Department
Europe,Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Yemeni I)inar (YD)= US$2.9
1US$                =  YD 0.342
1 Kuwait I)inar (KD)= US$3.5
GOVERNMENT OF PEOPLE'S DEMOCRAI'IC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHT'S AND MEASURES
1 Megawatt (MW)                    = 1,000 kilowatts
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)       = 810.7000 acre foot
1 meter (m)                        = 1.09 yards = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                   = 1.000 meters = 0.6214 miles
1 hectare (ha)                     = 10,000 square meters = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)           = 100 ha = 0.386 square miles
1 kilogram (kg)                    = 2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                   = 1,000 kilograms = 0.98 long tons
1 liter (1)                        = 0.264 gallons
1 liter per second (1/sec)         = 0.0353 cubic foot/second
mmhos/cm                           = measure of electric conductivity (EC)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AFESD     =       Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
CBA       =       Central Board of Auditing
CCSC              Central Coordinating and Steering Committee
CIF               Cost, Insurance, Freight
DIME              Department of Irrigation and Mechanical Engineering
ERR       =       Economic Rate of Return
FA0       =       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP    =       FAC/World Bank Cooperative Program
GDP       =       Gross Domestic Product
HPOI              Wadi Hadramawt: Project Organization
HPOII             Second Wadi Hadramawt Project Organization
HYV               High Yielding Varieties
IGb               International Competitive Bidding
IDA       =       International Development Association



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED (continued)
IFAD      =       International Fund for Agricultural Development
KFAED     =       Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LAC       =       Local Advisory Committee
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
LIT       =       Limited International Tendering
MAAR              Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MFW       =       Ministry of Fish Wealth
MRS       =       Machinery Renting Station
NBY               National Bank of Yemen
NCHT      =       National Company for Home Trade
PDC               Public Drilling Corporation
PASC      =       Public Agricultural Services Corporation
PCEP      =       Public Corporation for Electricity and Power
PCMFV             Public Corporation for Marketing of Fruit and Vegetables
PDRY              People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PPF       =       Project Preparation Facility
PVC       =       Polyvinyl chloride
PWC       =       Public Water Corporation
SOE       =       Statement of Expenditure
SOGREAH   =       Sogreah Consulting Engineers, France
UNDP      =       United Nations Development Programme
USBR      =       United States Bureau of Reclamation
WHP I     =       First Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project
WHP II    =       Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.        BACKGROUND                                                                          1
A.   Project Origin   .......................................    I
B.   The Agricultural  Sector   ..............................    2
C.   Previous  IDA Projects  in the Sector   ....                  ..............    4
II.         THE PROJECT AREA                                                                   5
A.   Location and Resources   ...............................    5
B.   Population,  Agricultural  Services and Land Tenure   ....                    7
C.   Rural  Infrastructure   .................................    9
D.   Agriculture   ..........................................   10
E.   The First Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural  Project   ....                  ....  11
III.        THE PROJECT                                                                       12
A.   Objectives  and Approach   ..............................   12
B.   Summary Description   ..................................   14
C.   Design and Detailed Features   .........................  15
D.   Status of Engineering   .......                ..........................   20
E.   Cost Estimates and Financing   .........................  20
F.   Procurement   ............            ..............................   25
G.   Disbursements   ..........             ..............................   27
H.   Environmental,  Nutritional and Health Impact   ....                  .....  29
IV.         PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION                                                           30
A.   Organization and Management   .......                 ...................  30
B.   Civil Works   ..........................................   31
C.   Operation and Maintenance   ........                ....................   33
D. Credit ........................................... 34
E. Accounts and Audit .................................... 35
F.   Monitoring  and Evaluation   ........               ....................  35
G.   International  Commodity Agreements   .....                 ..............  36



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
V.      PRODUCTION, PRICES AND MARIKETING                                 36
A. Agricultural Production .36
B. Prices .38
C. Markets and Marketing .38
D. Taxes and Recovery of Costs .39
VI.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS                                       40
A.  Beneficiaries and Financial Benefits .40
B. Economic Rate of Return .41
C. Other Benefits .42
D. Project Risks .43
VII.     AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                    43
ANNEXES
1.  Table 1: Detailed Cost Estimates .44
Table 2:  Schedule of Annual Expenditures .45
2.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements    .       .46
3.  Table 1:  Farm Income and Expenditure Flows,
Cropping Pattern I  ........................  47
Table 2: Farm Income and Expenditure Flows,
Cropping Pattern II  .......................  48
Table 3:  Rent Recovery Indices  .......................  49
4.  Economic Rate of Return Analysis  .......... ...........   50
5.  Expatriate Staff Requirements  ...........      .............   51
6. Related Documents and Data Available in
the Project File  ....................................  52
TEXT TABLES
3.1 Summary Cost Estimate .22
3.2 Financing Plan .24
3.3 Estimated Disbursements .28
5.1 Crop Areas, Yields and Production .37
5.2 Farm Gate Prices (1982) .38
CHARTS
Chart 25151 Organization Chart .56
Chart 25152 Crop Calendar .57
Chart 24153 Implementation Schedule .58
MAP      IBRD 16470 - Project area



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin
1.01     Low and erratic rainfall and the near-absence of perennial streams
make underground water the main reliable basis for agriculture in the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY). In contrast to the western parts of the
country, where spate irrigation from periodic and irregular floods predom-
inates, the Hadramawt valley depends mainly on pump irrigation. About half of
the country's pump irrigation is carried out in this valley and it is
estimated that it contains the country's main underground water resource
capable of an expanded sustained extraction.
1.02     To determine the potential for increased groundwater utilization, IDA
in 1973 agreed to a Government request for the financing of a hydrogeological
study of the valley. This study and the following feasibility study were
financed through funds included in the credit for the first Fisheries Project
(Credit 370-YDR) and the Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 615-YDR), and were carried out by consultants (SOGREAH) in 1978-80.
Subsequently, Project preparation was carried out by the same consultants in
collaboration with the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) with
financial support from an International Development Association (IDA) credit
advance of US$o.5 million (P1500 YDR) granted in March 1981.
1.03     The hydrogeological studies conclude that groundwater extraction can
be safely expanded by 50% through greater use of the deep sandstone aquifer.
Much of this potential is planned to cover the projected incremental require-
ments for domestic use and production intensification on state farms.   As a
first phase, about one-fifth of the potential additional extraction will serve
to increase production by cooperatively-organized individual farmers through
this Project, for which the Government has requested IDA financing.
1.04     This report is based on the hydrogeological and feasibility study,
the project preparation report and the findings of an appraisal mission
March/April 1982, consisting of Messrs. J.P. van der Veen, P.F. van der Goot,
S.A. Rana (IDA) and W. Bakiewicz (consultant).



- 2 -
B. The Agricultural Sector 1/
1.05     Despite substantial economic growth since 1973, PDRY still has a low
per capita GDP (about US$360 in 1980). Population is 1.9 million, of which
470,000 are in the domestic work force, including 200,000 (45%) in agri-
culture. Agricultural resources are limited by the harsh climate which
restricts crop production to irrigated areas. Of the total land area of 33
million ha, about 20,000 ha are irrigated from wells or permanent streams and
40,000-70,000 ha from wadis in spate.
1.06     Investment in agriculture over the 1978-80 period amounted to US$230
million (35% of the development budget) and was mainly directed towards
irrigation development. As yet, however, agricultural production has not
responded, and sector value added has stagnated with the result that
agriculture's contribution to GDP has fallen from 14% in 1975 to 8% in 1980.
As a consequence, imports of agricultural products during the period 1975-80
rose from US$65 million to US$200 million in current prices, corresponding to
an increase of about 250% in real terms.
1.07     Government's policy is to operate a centrally planned system with
areas of crops planted being officially predetermined and the prices of inputs
and outputs mostly controlled. The planning system is an iterative one, with
initial overall plans being prepared centrally, disaggregated, discussed and
modified at the local level and subsequently amended after taking account of
the various interests, both within and outside the sector. Prices have a dual
role in the system: (i) they are intended to provide a fair reward to the
producer and (ii) in the case of specific crops, where greater production is
required, attractive prices are set to act as an incentive to production.
Since very substantial price increases came into effect in 1979, most
agricultural producer prices have been adjusted above border price levels,
with the notable exclusion of cotton, tobacco and bananas. With the exception
of non-recovered investments in irrigation infrastructure, subsidies to agri-
culture are relatively small and mainly comprise the provision of machinery
services through Machinery Renting Stations at below their economic cost.
Fertilizer prices in most areas are presently above current import parity
levels.
Plan Objectives
1.08     Tne principal objectives of the Government's Second Five-Year plan
(1981-85) are to achieve self-sufficiency in vegetable production, to cover
about 60% to 70% of foodgrain requirements, to increase exports and to provide
raw materials for agro-industries. Even though planned investments in
agriculture were scaled down, the target growth rates appear very optimistic.
To achieve the planned objectives, Government proposes to:
1/ For more details, please see the Agricultural Sector Memorandum,
WB Report No. 4006-YDR, September, 1982 (Green Cover).



(i)      expand and modernize the irrigation system and take measures to
encourage better use of water;
(ii)     improve farming techniques to raise productivity; and
(iii)    improve marketing arrangements and intensify efforts for
expanding existing marketing facilities, providing storage
capacity for agricultural products; and
(iv)     improve transport facilities.
The project is in harmony with these stated objectives and with the means
proposed to achieve them.
Policies and Issues
1.09     Specific policy actions, aimed at encouraging more rational and
greater agricultural production were discussed with Government in April 1982
witnin the framework of IDA's sector policy dialogue with the Government.
The attitude to IDA's proposals was generally positive. The proposals,
discussed in the recent Sector Memorandum, include:
(a) the modification of the physical planning process so that fixed
targets are set only for critical products in critical areas;
(b) a review of fixed prices for crops which have Nominal Protection
Coefficients!1 below one;
(c) the rationalization of effective input subsidies and taxes
including the abolition of subsidies, except where they can be
used as a tool for encouraging more technically and economically
efficient production techniques;
(d) the abolition of the present production tax on most agricultural
commodities;
(e) greater cost recovery on newly irrigated land;
(f) the establishment of a legal framework whereby producer groups
are able to take long leases on tractors and pumpsets; and
(g) a change in the policy of cooperatives for repayment of capital
cost and maintenance of pumpsets to reflect actual costs.
Items (e)-(g) above will be implemented in the proposed Project. Moreover, to
encourage the growing of newly introduced or promoted high value fruits and
vegetables, farmers will be allowed to market small amounts directly without
1/ Nominal Protection Coefficient = the ratio of producer prices to border
price equivalents.



-4 -
having to go through the cooperatives. It was also agreed that on-lending
interest rates for IDA-assisted projects in the sector will be raised from
5.5% and 6% to 7.5% and 8% for short- and medium-term loans, respectively.
1.10     A major constraint to expanding agricultural production is the
capacity of the institutions to supply inputs. The Public Agricultural
Services Corporation (PASC) and many of the cooperatives themselves are in a
tight financial situation and thus have difficulty in ensuring that timely
supplies of inputs, particularly fertilizer, are available in the rural areas
for farmers to buy. More tractors are needed by the Machinery Renting
Stations (MRS), cooperatives and farmers to meet the demand for land
preparation. Equipment adapted to local conditions, training and promotional
efforts are required to extend mechanization to activities other than tillage.
1.11     Increased fruit and vegetable production will require the Public
Corporation for Marketing of Fruit and Vegetables (PCMFV) to be strengthened
at the national level. This corporation will need to be: (1) equipped with
more and better handling, transport and storage facilities; (2) given
flexibility to set prices and margins on a short-term basis to bring supply
and demand into equilibrium, and (3) provided with more trained staff
(including technical assistance) to enable it to perform more efficiently,
tnereby causing it to be an important means for the Government to introduce
and test important policy changes prior to their implementation on a wider
scale. At project level, provision is made to improve PCMFV's transport
capacity. The Government has approached IDA for a comprehensive feasibility
study through financing under IDA's Project Preparation Facility.
1.12     For the centrally planned agricultural system to operate more
effectively, the reliability of data and the capacity to analyze it needs to
be enhanced. In support of this, IDA is prepared to assist with the
establishment of an Agricultural Economic Analysis Unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR), for which provision is made under the
project (para. 3.27).
C. Previous IDAi Projects in the Sector
1.13     IDA has financed six projects in the agricultural and fisheries
sectors, three for fisheries development and three for development of
irrigated agriculture in Wadis Hadramawt, Tuban and Beihan. The First
Fisheries Project (Cr. 370-YDR for US$5.1 million) was completed in September,
1981. The Project provided for (i) construction of shore facilities for
processing, freezing and cold storage at Mukalla and Shihr; (ii) construction
of 100 traditional fishing vessels; and (iii) technical assistance and
consultancy studies relating to shore facilities, engineering management of
the Ministry of Fish Wealth (MFW) and fisheries development, as well as
agricultural and water supply studies in Wadi Hadramawt. The Project
Completion Report was issued in October 1981. Because of a cost increase of
about 50% over appraisal estimates and delays in completion of shore
facilities, the project's expected rate of return is considerably below the
appraisal estimate of 30%. The project, however, succeeded in establishing an
institutional capability for fisheries development which previously did not



- 5 -
exist. The Second Fisheries Project (Cr. 932-YDR for US$10.0 million)
consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo port and
supporting infrastructure at Nishtun in the Al Mahara Governorate, and of fish
receiving and processing facilities. The Third Fisheries Project (Cr.1274-YDR
for US$6.0 million) provides for: (i) construction of a fisheries manpower
development center to help alleviate serious shortages in skilled manpower in
the sector, and (ii) refrigeration, landing, handling, processing and
transportation equipment in selected cooperatives. The Second and Third
Fisheries Projects are being implemented satisfactorily.
1.14     In agriculture, the Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
(WHP I) (Cr. 615-YDR for US$7.0 million) was completed in July 1982. It aimed
at increasing agricultural production on about 8,000 ha of irrigated land
through provision of extension services, inputs and feeder roads, and provides
village water supplies and a feasibility study for groundwater development. A
more detailed description of this project is given in paras. 2.28-2.36. The
Wadi Tuban Agriculture Project (Cr. 768-YDR for US$5.2 million with US$6.1
million cofinancing from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
(AFEbD) seeks to raise agricultural production and farm incomes on selected
cooperatives and state farms in Wadi Tuban through an increased use of inputs,
improved cultural practices, provision of farm machinery and the construction
of an improved groundwater irrigation network. In addition, it includes the
construction of improved village water supply systems and feeder roads. After
a slow start, largely due to delays in finalizing co-financing arrangements
and changes in key personnel, its implementation is now progressing more
satisfactorily. The Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project (Cr.
1145-YDR for US$8.0 million with US$6 million equivalent co-financing from the
International Fund for Agricultural Development /IFAD/), which became
effective in April 1982, will increase agricultural production and farm
incomes on about 4,000 ha of both spate- and well-irrigated land by
rehabilitating the spate irrigation systems, improving groundwater irrigation,
establishing an extension service, and providing credit for inputs and orchard
establishment.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Resources
2.01     Location.  The project area is part of Wadi Hadramawt which consists
of a main valley and several tributary valleys, bisecting the limestone
plateau of East-Central PDRY from west to east over a length of some 100 km,
at a distance of about 170 km from the Indian Ocean (Map IBRD 16470). At an
altitude of about 600 m, the valley and its tributaries are flanked by
200-300 m high often vertical cliffs of the surrounding barren rocky plateau.
2.02     Climate.  These cliffs provide partial protection from sun radiation
and windstorms to the human settlements generally located at their foot. The
southern plateau, rising to an elevation of 1,800 m, receives an estimated
annual rainfall of 100-300 mm. Although forming only 12.5% of its total
watershed of 120,000 km2, this southern plateau is the main source of the
valley's groundwater recharge, both through surface floods in the valley and



distant infiltration. Rainfall in the valley proper is limited to occasional
heavy sllowers in March/April and July/September, and amounts to no more than
about 60 mm per year. The climate is hot and dry with maximum temperatures
ranging from 290C in December/January to 420C in July/August, and minimum
temperatures from 13 0C to 27CC in the corresponding months. Especially in the
west of the valley, windstorms cause sand dune incursions into cultivated land
which in the past have led to abandonment of human settlements.
2.03     Soils.  Soils are mainly of alluvial and aeolian origin and, in much
of the valley, salinity is a major constraint to irrigated agriculture.
However, in the area selected for the Project, 54% of the soils are highly
suitable for irrigation (class 1 according to United States Bureau of
Reclamation (USBR) standards) and only 6% marginally suitable (class 3).
Depth to sand or gravel is over 90 cm in class 1 soils, whereas the loamy sand
soils of class 2 have 60 cm of free working soil. Class 1 soils have no
restrictions of topography, but class 2 soils require moderate levelling
(500-750 m3/ha). In parts of the cultivated area, soils are periodically
leached by partially controlled floods from the main wadi and its tributaries,
tnereby preventing excessively high salinity levels.
2.04     Groundwater.  Groundwater is the main source of water for irrigation
and domestic use, an estimated 150 Mm3 being extracted from the shallow
aquifer and underlying conglomerate and sandstone aquifers. Farmers'
cooperatives obtain most of their irrigation water from about 1,000 shallow
open wells. Since the early 1970s, a total of 140 tubewells has been
established for both cooperative and state farms to utilize the better quality
water from the lower aquifer. Groundwater recharge comes through infiltration
of flood water in the valley (78.5 Mm3), re-infiltration of irrigation and
domestic water (38.5 Mm3), and distant recharge from infiltration in the
catchment area (48.5 Mm3). Depletion of the alluvial aquifer (some 15 Mm3
per year) is the reason for the slight decline of groundwater levels over the
last four years. Gross area under command of pump irrigation in the valley is
14,500 ha, of which about 12,000 belong to cooperatives and the remainder to
State Farms. Some 15,000 ha is under command of irregular spate irrigation,
only partly through a distribution system, and about 2,600 ha gross are under
combined spate and pump irrigation command.
2.05     The estimated capacity of the aquifer for an increased extraction by
50% will be more than adequate for the planned incremental extraction through
tne Project of 12.2 Mm3 for cooperatives in addition to projected increases
by the year 2020 of 21.1 Mm3 and 25.3 Mm for state farms and domestic use,
respectively. As a result of the planned increased extraction, watertable
lowering of 5-15 m is expected till equilibrium is reached sometime after the
year 2020, with a decreased volume of water stored in the alluvial aquifer and
a large increase of inflow from the sandstone aquifer.
2.06     Water quality of the upper aquifer, which now provides about
two-thirds of total abstractions, is generally poor as a result of high to
very high salinity (0.75 to over 5 mmhos/cm). Generally, water quality is
highest in the tributaries and along the valley's edges.  The sandstone
aquifer, on the other hand, contains better quality water (on the average less
thian 1 mmho/cm). However, contamination with lower quality water from the



- 7 -
upper aquifer may occur through infiltration if improper spacing of tubewells
will cause a too rapid drawdown or through borehole seepage (paras 2.07 and
3.11.)
2.07     Project Area.  Proper spacing of tubewells for the planned additional
groundwater extraction is among the factors considered by the Government, in
consultation with consultants, FAO/CP and IDA, for the selection of the
project area. To minimize risks of watertable drawdown and water quality
deterioration, and to achieve a relatively even geographical spread of
benefits to the population, the project area consists of 13 irrigation sectors
located throughout the valley (Map IBRD 16470). In these sectors, 55 new
tubewells will provide additional irrigation water of good quality to enable
intensification of farming on 2,825 ha. Moreover, on 400 ha largely adjacent
to three of the above sectors, irrigation will be improved on the basis of
existing tubewells. The total project area of 3,225 ha will comprise about
27% of the command area of cooperatives, or 18% of the total area under
command in cooperatives and state farms in Wadi Hadramawt.
2.08     Irregular and infrequent floods from the limestone plateaux to the
south and north provide the beneficial effects of watertable recharge, soil
leaching, spate irrigation for annual crops, and re-growth of natural
vegetation in flood plains for grazing by small ruminants and camels. In the
lower part of the valley, systematic control of spates is widely practiced,
especially for date palms which get little supplemental irrigation when not
intercropped. However, such severe floods as occurred in late March 1982 can
also be very destructive to roads, houses and open wells. In one of its three
sectors in the lower valley, the Project will improve spate irrigation
off-take works, while provision is also made for rehabilitation of flood
control structures, mainly in selected tributary valleys.
B. Population, Agricultural Services and Land Tenure
2.09     Population.  Of the estimated 170,000 inhabitants of the valley and
its fringes, about 45,000 reside in the four main towns of Seiyun, Tarim,
Snibam and Al Qatn. The high rate of net male emigration over the past 40-50
years, when an estimated 44% of the adult male population permanently or
temporarily emigrated from the valley, is estimated to have been reduced by
half since the early 1970s. Average family size is 7-8. The number of farm
families in the project area proper is about 930, or 27% of the total number
of farm families on pump-irrigated land.
2.10     Administrative and Agricultural Services.  Wadi Hadramawt is a
sub-governorate of the Hadramawt Governorate which has Al Mukalla as its
administrative center. The town of Seiyun is the seat of the sub-governorate,
the local branch of the party, and branches of various administrative
services, including the Departments of MAAR under the Deputy Provincial
Director of Agriculture.
2.11     The local branches of the Departments of State Farms and Cooperatives
supervise the 8 State Fanns and five agricultural cooperatives of which in
principle all farmers on pump irrigated land are members. The 3,450 members
are organized in working groups of 2-12 families, each responsible for all
farming activities.



- 8 -
2.12     The cooperatives charge a basic membership fee against their
overheads and a percentage of the gross value of the main crops for partial
repayment of investments in irrigation infrastructure (Annex 3). Services
provided by the cooperatives are paid by the members before or at harvest and
include farm machinery services (mostly from MRS) input supplies (seed,
fertilizer, fuel), collection and first marketing (cereals, oilseed and
vegetables), and maintenance of tubewell engines and pumps. The cooperatives
have been instrumental in irrigation development through drilling and
equipping of 77 tubewells. The record of repayments by the five Wadi
Hadramawt cooperatives for these investments and for seasonal credit received
on behalf of their members has been satisfactory.
2.13     The local branch of the National Bank of Yemen (NBY) maintains
accounts of the cooperatives, public sector agencies and individuals.
According to its statutes, it is also authorized to provide banking services
to the cooperatives' working groups. Apart from administering funds allocated
by the former Agricultural Development Fund, its credit role in the Wadi
Hadramawt has been limited to an intermediary channel for IDA-supplied short-
and medium-term credit under the first Hadramawt Project (para. 2.30).
2.14     Other support services include the Machinery Renting Station (MRS),
tne Extension Service and the Agricultural Research Station. MRS provides
tractor rental services, primarily for land preparation and threshing, for
which purpose it owns 130 wheel tractors and implements, 33 of which were
supplied through the IDA credit for tnae first Project.  MRS also operates 22
bulldozers for spate irrigation maintenance and maintenance of erosion control
structures. Farmers' complaints about delays in farm machinery services are
partly due to insufficient discipline of drivers, probably because of low
wages, but also due to inadequate planning for these services by the
cooperatives and their members, who follow different procedures in requesting
services from MRS. Combine-harvesting of wheat by MRS equipment is thus far
limited to the larger border-irrigated fields of State Farms and the pilot
farms established under the Wadi Hadramawt I Project (WHP I). Upon request,
MRS also provides maintenance services for pumpsets.
2.15     The extension service is part of the Department of Research and
Extension and was established by WHP I (para. 2.30). It advises farmers on
improved cultural practices, assists with distribution of improved seeds and
plant protection.  Ten extension agents are assigned to the four main
cooperatives, and are supported by five subject matter officers at the head
office. They work intensively with leader or guide farmers for the
introduction of improved practices and assist farmers of the two pilot farm
units developed under WHP I to demonstrate the package of improved irrigation
and agricultural practices, the use of which is to be expanded under WHP II.
2.16     Seed multiplication of improved wheat varieties is carried out
through support of an FAO/UNDP Project. MAAR also carries out seed potato
production under contract with farmers in the Mukairas area. Research at the
Seiyun Agricultural Research Station is concentrated on cereals, vegetables
and soil fertility. In view of its importance, the Project will strengthen
fruit tree experimental work and seeding propagation.



- 9 -
2.17     Land Tenure.  All pump-irrigated land and related physical assets
outside the state farms are legally owned by the cooperatives. About half of
the project area will belong to the Al Qatn cooperative (1,545 ha), the
remainder being part of the Shibam, Seiyun and Tarim cooperatives (comprising
385 ha, 370 ha and 925 ha, respectively). Average farm size is 3.5 ha but the
area under crops is only 1.8 ha per family.  Cooperative members are either
beneficiaries of land reform or original smallholders, whose land was incor-
porated in the cooperatives of which they became members. Both categories
collaborate in production groups of an average of three families for joint
operation of a well and pump, maintenance of irrigation network, farm
machinery rental and assignaent of tasks. Production groups of former small
holders usually formed on the basis of kinship, have close traditional ties to
the land they cultivate, which includes many of the date orchards. In the Al
Qatn and Tarim cooperatives most farmers belong to the first category, while
in the Seiyun and Shibam cooperatives both are about equally represented. The
Government agreed to exclude areas with dense date palm plantations from the
proposed project (para. 3.07). As a result, relatively few farmers belonging
to the category of former smallholders will be included, and, consequently,
their possible objection to the proposed changes in irrigation lay-out and
well consolidation will be largely avoided.
C. Rural Infrastructure
2.18     Communications.  Communications between Seiyun and Aden are
maintained by air through almost daily flights and overland by a 940 km
highway of which the 600 km from Aden to Al Mukalla is paved and the 360 km
Mukalla-Seiyun section constructed IDA financial support (Credit 560-YDR) is
virtually complete. This will be of considerable benefit to the Second Wadi
Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (WHP II) by facilitating imports of
material, equipment and fuel into the valley, and transport of agricultural
produce, mainly fruits and vegetables, out of the valley. Completion of the
Al Qatn-Seiyun section of this highway, as well as the 90 km of feeder roads
constructed under WHP I, have already provided a considerable improvement of
agricultural services and communications in the valley.
2.19     Power and Water Supplies.  The first of four generating sets of a
central 16 MW power plant, constructed with IDA support (Credit 829-YDR), was
put in operation in March 1982. The full Project, which includes 1,000 km of
transmission lines and transformer units for electric pumps, is expected to be
completed at the end of 1985. WHP I has assisted the Public Water Corporation
(PWC) with improvements of the water supply systems of Shibam, Qatn and 22
adjacent villages. A Project for a new water supply scheme for the
Seiyun-Hauta area is under preparation for possible future IDA financing.
2.20     Education.  The valley has a good network of primary schools.
Education at the secondary level is provided at Seiyun and includes a
teachers' training school, and a farm machinery training institute established
with IDA support (Credit 494-YDR).



- 10 -
2.21     Health.  Wheat, rice and sorghum constitute the staple foods,
supplemented by dates, sugar (for tea) and limited amounts of fish (mainly
dried shark), meat, poultry, dairy products and vegetables. In the towns,
frozen fish is increasingly available as a result of the IDA-supported First
Fisheries Project (Credit 370-YDR). Fresh fruit is almost absent, and
vegetable consumption in the valley is as low as 40 kg per head per year.
Recently, availability of tomatoes and onions has increased.  The diet
provides an adequate calorie level but is, for a large section of the
population, low in animal proteins and vitamins A and E.  The low nutritional
status of children below one year is a major cause of high child mortality.
Public health facilities are availabLe through the bilateral-supported
hospital in Seiyun and outlying heali:h centers and units.  Following its
policy of reorientation towards preventive health, the Government has
requested IDA assistance for the development of basic health services,
manpower development and health education in three areas, including Wadi
Hadramawt. The proposed project was appraised in October 1982.
D. Agriculture
2.22     Agricultural production in the project area is based on pump
irrigation from about 300 open wells and 40 tubewells. Total abstraction is
27.7 Mm3 for an average 52% irrigation intensity.
2.23     Existing irrigation practices, based on the use of small, uneven,
hand-graded basins, are labor-intensive and do not facilitate the use of farm
machinery. Water conveyance and distribution is done though crude, unlined
ditches having few, if any, permanent structures for water control and
distribution. Consequently, water losses are high and overall irrigation
efficiency is estimated to be about 49%. The open wells are generally
equipped with diesel-driven centrifugal pumps and the tubewells with diesel-
driven turbine pumps, with discharges between 3-10 1/sec and 10-40 l/sec,
respectively. Except for recently installed tubewells, the generally
over-powered engine units are mostly old but well maintained.
2.24     Especially in or near the confluence of tributary valleys, a
centuries-old branched spate irrigation network exists which includes masonry
structures for flood diversion in the limited areas under spate irrigation
command. In addition, dry rubble or cement masonry weirs exist in the lower
valley and its main tributary, to reduce wadi bed slope and stabilize its
course, and in some areas to spread floods into upstream low-production date
palm groves.
2.25     Over 60% of the cropped area is under wheat and sorghum; the other
major crops are vegetables (mainly onions and tomatoes), alfalfa, sesame and
dates (table 5.1). Date palms are often cultivated along irrigation ditches,
thereby using part of the conveyance losses, but generally receive water only
during irrigation of the other crops. As about half of the land is fallowed,
palms are often only irrigated every other year, and then only during part of
the year. In some areas this is compensated to some extent by irregular spate
irrigations.



- 11 -
2.26     Wheat and the main vegetables, together constituting over half the
annual cropped area, are grown during the winter season when water
requirements are lowest. About half of the wheat area is planted with high
yielding varieties (HYV), but partly due to the high value of straw, many
farmers still prefer to cultivate local varieties, which produce more and
better quality straw for brick-making. As a result of high prices for fodder,
alfalfa cultivation has increased in recent years. Areas under onions and
tomatoes have also expanded, and a keen interest is shown in potato
cultivation introduced under WHP I.
2.27     Yield levels (table 5.1) are adversely affected by salinity, uneven
water distribution in the field, inadequate soil preparation and cultural
practices, especially poor weed control. Improvement initiated under WHP I
will require the interaction of improved irrigation practices, water quality
and cultural practices (para. 2.34).
E. The First Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project (WHPI)
2.28     WHP I was approved on February 17, 1976 and declared effective on
September 10, 1976. IDA's contribution was US$7.0 million out of a total
estimated Project cost of US$11.0 million. Implementation initially was slow
largely due to delays and changes in expatriate staff appointments.
Consequently, the credit period was twice extended and was closed on December
31, 1982.
2.29     The Project included financing of hydrogeological and feasibility
studies which were completed by consultants in 1980 at a cost of close to
US$1.2 million. These studies form the basis of the subsequent preparation of
WHP II. Rural infrastructure components included village water supply works
for the Al Qatn and Shibam areas benefitting about 40,000 people, and feeder
roads linking about 20 villages with the main west-east road. Cost overruns
of almost 100% for both components, mainly due to implementation delays and
the higher than expected cost increase of labor, were largely covered by the
Government. The feeder roads, which are highly appreciated by the
beneficiaries, and the water supply works were virtually completed in December
1982.
2.30     The agricultural component of the Project consisted of the
establishment of an extension service, provision of inputs and farm machinery
through short- and medium-term credit and establishment of a date packing
plant. A full team of extension workers has gradually been assembled,
received valuable training in Cyprus and is now carrying out an important
advisory and demonstration program throughout the valley. The date packing
plant was completed in 1980 and started operations in 1981, when 400 tons were
processed. Improvements in pricing and collecting procedures are needed to
increase the quantity and quality of the produce offered for processing to
approach the capacity of 2,000 tons per year. The Government will set up a
committee by June 30, 1983, to examine the improvements required in those
procedures and recommend a plan of action satisfactory to IDA to implement
such improvements.  The plan of action will be implemented within one year of
the establishment of the committee.



.- 12 -
2.31     Through the agricultural machinery supplied under the Project,  MRS
was able to improve its services for land preparation and threshing. However,
mainly as a result of organizational shortcomings in transmitting and
responding to farmers' requests for services, and due to lack of incentives
for tractor operators, often serious delays occur in land preparation. The
proposed decentralized control over farm machinery in WHP II is expected to
contribute to a more efficient use of the equipment.
2.32     The use of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals has
significantly improved as a result of the Project's promotional work and its
logistical support to the cooperatives and State Farms. However, in general,
the use of these inputs is still at a low level, partly because their full
benefits will only appear when used in conjunction with improved irrigation
and other cultural practices, which will become possible under the proposed
WHP II.
2.33     To demonstrate their combined effect and also to test institutional
implications, the Project established three pilot farm units of about 50 ha
each on cooperative land irrigated through tubewells.  On-farm improvement
included an improved irrigation conveyance network, land levelling and
establishment of border irrigation and, for testing purposes, a sprinkler
irrigation system.
2.34     Excellent results have so far been obtained on two of the farms
during two cropping seasons, operated by cooperative working groups, through
improved yields, reduced labor inputs and higher irrigation efficiency. In
1981-82, average yields of 2.9, 57, 21, tons/ha, were obtained from wheat,
tomatoes, and potatoes, respectively. The third pilot unit was operated by
the cooperative through hired labor which had no immediate interest in its
success, and consequently the Project ceased to assist this farm after the
first year. The Project initiated the establishment of a fourth pilot farm to
demonstrate improved date and citrus cultivation.
2.35     The experiences obtained on these pilot units are an important
component of the design of the Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development
Project.
2.36     Although the Project Completion Report has not yet been submitted to
IDA, preliminary calculations suggest that the Project's Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) is close to the appraisal estimate of 17%.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Approach
Objectives
3.01     The Hadramawt Valley as well as the country as a whole have
significant deficits in almost all food commodities (para. 5.06). An increase
of the national production is therefore needed to decrease the dependence on



- 13 -
imports, reduce the drain on foreign exchange, and improve the quality of the
diet of the population. Considerable investments have been made to develop
the spate irrigation potential of the major valleys in the Western part of the
country where spates are relatively regular. Little scope exists for expan-
sion of spate irrigated agriculture and a considerable effort is required for
repair and maintenance of its infrastructure, in particular following the
catastrophic floods of March 1982. In the absence of sufficient rainfall for
agriculture (except for a narrow strip in the mountains along the border of
the Yemen Arab Republic) and perennial streams, groundwater development is the
only alternative basis for agricultural expansion. As most other sources of
groundwater have already been or are being developed, the Government decided
to focus on Wadi Hadramawt as the main remaining area with a potential for
expansion and intensification of groundwater irrigation, to:
(i) increase production of cereals, fodder, fruit and vegetables;
(ii) increase farmers' income; and
(iii) correct the long-term negative effect which will result from the
gradual lowering of the shallow watertable in the project area.
Approach
3.02     Based on the conclusion of the hydrogeological study regarding the
capacity of the groundwater for increased extraction (para. 2.05) 55
tubewells will be drilled in the project area (para. 2.07) to increase annual
extraction from 28 to 40 Mm3. Part of the existing shallow wells will be
retained for pumping during peak demand periods. They will be deepened, and
tubewells as well as the remaining open wells will be equipped with
electrically powered pumps. At full development, a limited amount of night
irrigation will be required during the peak demand period.
3.03     Through the combined use of low-salinity water from the sandstone
aquifer and limited use of relatively more saline water from the alluvial
aquifer, overall water quality will be improved. The additional extraction of
water and its improved quality will enable an increase of irrigation intensity
in the 3,225 ha of the Project from 52 to 93%. Construction of a properly
designed conveyance and distribution system, which will follow as much as
possible the existing water courses, land levelling and the proper sizing of
irrigation borders will reduce water losses, provide better water
distribution, facilitate mechanization and timely cultural practices, reduce
labor requirements, increase yields and unit financial returns.
3.04     The expected increased financial returns (paras. 6.01-6.02 and
Annex 3) will enable the beneficiaries to repay medium-term loans for
pumpsets, farm machinery and orchard establishment, channeled through NBY.
Furthermore, an irrigation improvement tax will be levied on an area basis
instead of the existing tax based on volume of production, thereby enabling an
80% cost recovery in 25 years (para. 5.10).
3.05     For the purpose of irrigation water management and farm machinery
operations, farmers' groups within cooperatives will form farm units of about
50 ha. As part of the cooperatives, these units will gradually become



- I14 -
responsible for operation and maintenance of equipment, physical
infrastructure, and repayment of loans. They will largely follow the pattern
of the two pilot farm units already successfully established under WHP I
(paras. 2.33-2.34). About 60 such farrm units will be established in the
project area. Provision is made for farmers' training for these units.
Several adjacent farm units will be grouped to form a total of about 18
cooperatives, replacing the present four cooperatives in the project area.
Furthermore, the extension service will be strengthened to intensify its
advisory work in the project area.
3.06     Strengthening of other services will include expansion of the nursery
to provide the required number of seedlings for the projected 190 ha of new
orchards to be established under the Project. Provision is also made for
strengthening of experimental work on horticulture.
3.07     Areas with a dense cover of date palms, originally planned for date
orchard rehabilitation, have been omitted from the Project because of the time
required to convince farmers of the benefits of date palm thinning.  However,
a 50 ha demonstration area is included as a basis for future improvements of
date production in the valley.
B. Summary Description
3.08     Project activities will include:
Irrigation Development
(i)   Drilling and equipping of about 55 tubewells, improvement and deep-
ening of about 105 open wells and electrification of about 20
existing tubewells.
(ii)   Land levelling and construction of irrigation conveyance network on
3,150 ha.
(iii)   Establishment of 75 ha of overhead irrigation (sprinkler and drip),
improvement of spate irrigation infrastructure for 200 ha and
rehabilitation of four wadi flow control sills.
Farm Machinery
(iv)   provision of farm machinery.
Agricultural Development
(v)   Strengthening of the agricultural extension service and provision of
transport for fruit and vegetable marketing.
(vi)   Provision of medium-term credit for the establishment of 190 ha of
new orchards (mainly citrus), and incremental seasonal credit for
farm inputs.
(vii)   Expansion of the fruit tree nursery and strengthening of
horticultural research.



- 15 -
(viii)   Date palm rehabilitation demonstration on 50 ha as a basis for future
rehabilitation of date orchards in the valley.
Project Management and Training
(ix)   Provision of expatriate and national staff, equipment, housing and
operating costs for a Second Wadi Hadramawt Project Unit (HPU II)
required for Project implementation.
(x)   Training of farmers, technical and support staff.
Studies
(xi)   Establishment of a flood and erosion control program in major valleys
of PDRY.
(xii)   Strengthening of agricultural economic analysis capacity in MAAR.
(xiii)   Hydrogeological monitoring.
(xiv)   Feasibility study for a possible future Agricultural Development
Project.
C. Design and Detailed Features
irrigation Development
3.09     Drilling and Well Improvement.   On the basis of soil suitability,
labor availability, mechanization, marketing and national planning goals, two
cropping patterns have been selected. Both are located basically outside the
areas with dense date palm groves but do include date palms along some of the
existing water courses. The first cropping pattern (CPI) is predominantly
oriented towards cereal production, while the second (CPII) has a larger
proportion of vegetables. Both will include a small percentage of new
orchards. Water requirements will increase from an average of 8,600 m3/ha
before development to 12,370 and 12,400 m3/ha with development for CPI and
CPII respectively, which is within the 12,500 m3/ha determined by the
hydrogeological study as the maximum allowable extraction. CPI and CPII will
cover 1,625 and 1,600 ha respectively. Most of the Project sectors in the
western part of the project area (Al Qatn) will be under CPI, while the
vegetable cropping pattern will predominate in the other sectors. At full
development, total annual water requirement will be 39.8 Mm3, or 12.2 Mm3
over the current extraction. To cater for this increase and to replace
existing wells of high salinity, 55 deep tubewells will be constructed, in
addition to the 40 existing tubewells and 105 open wells which will be
retained. The new tubewells will be equipped with electrically powered
submersible pumps or deep turbine pump installations. The pumping units of
existing wells will be replaced by electric units as and when required. A
phased replacement program hias been estimated whereby the pumping equipment of
50 shallow wells and 20 deep wells will be replaced during the implementation
period of 5 years proposed for the project.



- 16 -
3.10      In view of the expected increased drawdown of the watertable
resulting from the incremental extraction, deepening of all shallow wells to
be retained in the project has been phased during the implementation period.
It is estimated that the wells will have to be deepened by an average 5 m in
order to maintain their projected yielcls.
3.11      The new tubewells will be dril]led deep into the sandstone so that at
least 50 m of the sandstone aquifer will be tapped.  To reduce the intrusion
of water of the shallow aquifer into the zone of deep aquifer exploitation,
the boreholes will be provided with bli nd casings through the saline water
zone, and with plugging between the two zones. The system of conjunctive use
of water from deep and shallow wells in peak demand periods will be designed
in such a way that in those periods, e-Lectric conductivity (EC) will not
exceed 2 mmhos/cm. Exceptionally, in areas where regular leaching through
spate irrigation is carried out, 3 mmhos/cm will be allowed. Outside the two
months of peak demand, the better quality water (1.0 mmhos/cm) from deep wells
will be used.
3.12     Land Levelling.  Land levelling and smoothing, essential for the
successful application of surface (largely border strips and furrow)
irrigation, will require earth movement: of 305 m3/ha on the average. It
will be carried out through force account and will commence using equipment
already available from WHP I and MRS.
3.13      Conveyance and Distribution System.  The design will be based on the
following premises:
(i)  during periods of maximum demand, the tubewells, supported by
the selected remaining open wells, will operate continuously for
16-18 hours per day without night storage;
(ii)  the smallest irrigation ditch will be designed to carry at
least 15 1/sec to borders measuring 100 x 5-6 m;
(iii) the average farm unit of about 50 ha will be served by two small
tubewells (total capacity 40-50 l/sec) or by one large tubewell
in combination with 4-5 open wells to produce a total discharge
of 40-50 1/sec;
(iv) all main supply ditches will be concrete-lined and have
capacities over 20 I/sec; and
(v)  within the farm units, water delivery will be rotated so that at
any one time, at least one distribution ditch will be able to
run full supply.
In-situ pouring of cement concrete will be carried out for the lining of main
ditches, as was done on State Farms in the valley. Lining will be done on a
compacted base, with a minimum thickness of 5 cm. Buried pipes (cement
asbestos or PVC) will connect the wells with the main ditches.   Density of
lined ditches, unlined ditches and buried pipes will be 31, 46 and 5m/ha,
respectively.



- 17 -
3.14     Spate Irrigation.  The spate irrigation system for 200 ha in the
Tarim sector under combined pump and spate irrigation will be improved through
the rehabilitation of canals and flow diversion structures, and the
remodelling of spate inlets. Similar materials as in the original
construction will be used (stone masonry and gabions).
3.15     Sprinkler and Drip Irrigation.  Under WHP I, demonstration sprinkler
irrigation units were established in the Tarba and Suweiry pilot units. The
new Project will expand overhead irrigation to a total of 73 ha in the Al
Qatn, Howela and Mishta sectors. In addition, a 2 ha drip irrigation
demonstration will be established for citrus. Part of the required equipment
has already been acquired by the Government.
3.16     Erosion and Flood Control.  Thirteen out of 16 sills for spate
diversion, groundwater recharge, and stabilization of wadi beds in a main
tributary and the lower main valley are in need of repair.  Four of the sills
most urgently in need of repairs will be rehabilitated by the Project.
3.17     Farm Machinery.  Between 4 and 15 existing farmers' groups will
constitute a farm unit of about 50 ha for the purpose of joint management of
water resources, pumping equipment, irrigation conveyance network and farm
machinery. Fifty tractors and basic equipment will be made available to the
farm units from NBY either directly or through the cooperatives, (para.
4.20). The units will be assisted by the cooperatives and, in the case of
major repairs, by MRS for maintenance of pumping equipment and farm
machinery. Furthermore, selected equipment which will serve more than one
farm unit will be provided through NBY credit to MRS or the cooperatives. At
negotiations, assurances were given for the establishment of lease
arrangements for the use of equipment by the farm units (para. 7.01).
3.18     Agricultural Extension.  Through the appointment of 5 additional
extension officers, the provision of additional transport and equipment, the
extension service will be able to provide one field extension officer per 400
ha or per 114 farmers on average. Ten extension officers will receive
short-term practical training abroad. One out of every four farm units will
receive intensive guidance and support from the extension staff and serve for
demonstration purposes along the lines of the pilot units established under
WHP I. Initially, extension staff will also assist farm units with
organizational aspects, including operation and maintenance of irrigation
infrastructure and equipment.
3.19     Fruit and Vegetable Marketing.  PCMFV will be supported through
credit for the purchase of four vehicles for transport of additional
quantities of vegetables and fruit expected to be produced by the Project
(paras. 4.17 and 5.08).
3.20     Orchard Establishment and Farm Inputs.  Medium-term credit will be
made available through NBY for the establishment of 190 ha new orchards (para.
4.17). At negotiations, assurances were given that farmers in the project
area will be given long-term usufruct rights of the newly established
orchards. The project will also provide funds for incremental seasonal credit



- 18 -
for inputs through NBY (para. 4.18). While the cooperatives will continue to
make bulk purchases of major inputs, PASC has established an outlet in Seiyun
for sales of small amounts of agricuLtural supplies and tools to meet urgent
requirements on a cash basis.
3.21     Fruit Tree Nursery and Horticultural Reseach.  The project will
provide the means to expand the fruit tree nursery to a capacity of 15,000
seedlings per year, to enable the phased establishment of 190 ha of new
orchards. Technical assistance, material and equipment will also be provided
to strengthen applied research on fruit trees carried out by the Seiyun
Agricultural Research Station. The expanded nursery and research facilities
are also expected to contribute to fruit tree development in other parts of
the valley after the project's requirements have been met.
3.22     Date Rehabilitation Demonstration.  About 50 ha will be selected in
one or more areas with a dense stand of partly low or non-producing date
palms, to demonstrate the benefits of a date orchard with properly aligned and
adequately irrigated productive date palms, mainly intercropped with
vegetables and forage crops. A new tubewell will be established, equipped and
interconnected with selected existing open wells having water of adequate
quality. An estimated five of these will be deepened. The unproductive date
palms and suckers in excess of the recommended number will be removed, gaps
will be filled with young trees of selected varieties, land between the rows
of trees will be levelled and the conveyance system improved. Increased water
availability and removal of nonproductive date palms will allow intercrops to
be increased from about 35% of the physical area at present to about 60% and
date production from 22 to 125 tons at full development. Due to the expected
quick response by the productive dates palms already in place, this development
is estimated to be highly attractive financially. As the orchards are mostly
farmed by working groups constituted of former smallholders (para. 2.17), the
demonstration will put special emphasis on the institutional arrangements for
the joint operation and management of the irrigation system. At negotiations
assurances were obtained that on a similar basis as for the new fruit orchards
to be established through the Project, farmers in the date rehabilitation
demonstration will receive long-term use rights of the improved orchards
(para. 7.01). Arrangements for credit, operation and maintenance, and cost
recovery will be similar to the othe,r parts of the project area (paras. 4.13
and 4.20).
Project Management and Training
3.23     Project Management  For the purpose of carrying out the Project, a
Second Wadi Hadramawt Project Organization (HPOII) will be established with
full authority for Project execution. Within HPOII, an execution unit will be
established under Presidential decree, with authority for execution of all
irrigation development works. Its authority includes staff recruitment,
contracting and procurement (Chart W3 24153 and paras. 4.03-4.12). While it
will continue to use office and residential facilities of HPO, the Project
will provide five additional prefabricated houses, funds for rental of
additional accomodation and stores, material, vehicles, incremental operating
costs and staff. Due to the severe shortage of national managerial, technical
and skilled personnel, timely project execution will require a large input of



- 19 -
expatriate personnel of various levels and specialization. A total of 51
man-years will be provided for Project Management, irrigation design and
development, fruit tree development, extension, training of members and
personnel of cooperatives and farm units, monitoring and evaluation, and
economic analysis. In case drilling would be carried out through force
account, 12 man-years of expatriate staff would be needed for drilling and
well development, in addition to 27 man-years of expatriate staff required for
the construction unit (Annex 5).
3.24     Establishment of the execution unit within HPOII will be a condition
of effectiveness (paras. 4.01 and 7.01), and at negotiations, assurances were
obtained that a qualified project manager, administrative and financial
officer, senior engineer (head of execution unit), irrigation engineer,
horticultural specialist and other key national and expatriate staff will be
appointed not later than September 30, 1983, that MAAR will seek to continue
employment of technical and administrative staff recruited or retained under
WHP I in connection with preparation for WHP II, and retain HPO's office and
housing accomodations for use by HPOII (para. 7.01). Furthermore, assurances
were received at negotiations to the effect that MAAR will enter into an
agreement with the Public Drilling Corporation (PDC) enabling HPOII to use one
rig and logistical facilities from PDC during the construction period, in
addition to obtaining the temporary secondment of selected local staff not
required for its own program in case drilling and well improvement would not
be carried out through contract (paras. 3.41, 4.02 and 7.01).
3.25     Training.  Selected farmers in each farm unit will receive training
in operation and management of the irrigation system and farm machinery.
Apart from technical subjects, training will cover basic financial and
administrative management of the farm units, within the wider cooperative
structure. An expatriate cooperative organization and training specialist
will be recruited for two years to assist with the organization of a training
program in Seiyun. Meanwhile, the existing training institutes of MAAR and
the Ministry of Education will continue to provide training for managerial and
support staff of the parent cooperatives, while the IDA-supported farm
machinery training institute at Seiyun (para. 2.20) is providing training for
technical staff required by the concerned Project units, MRS and the extension
service. Group training for a total of 156 man-months will be provided abroad
in the fields of surveying and drafting, agricultural extension and
cooperative organization. In addition, provision is made under the Project
for individual training abroad in horticulture, irrigation, farm mechanization
and accounting to a total of 60 man-months. Assurances will be sought at
negotiations for the preparation of a detailed training program and its
submission to IDA for comments, not later than April 30, 1984 (para. 7.01).
In view of Government's policy to discourage temporary or permanent emigration
of trained personnel, it is expected that most trained staff will remain
available till farmers and cooperatives have acquired the necessary skills.
3.26     Flood Control in Major Valleys.  Based on recommendations of an IDA
Mission following the disastrous floods in early 1982, a detailed program will
be made to establish a flood warning system and to prepare long-term erosion
control and spate irrigation management measures. These measures will be
determined through a feasibility study carried out by MAAR with the help of



- 20 -
consultants who will be appointed with IDA's concurrence on the basis of terms
of reference and invitations to bid to be finalized in April 1983. The
Government has requested a PPF advance of US$250,000 to finance these
consultants before the IDA credit becomes effective. Proposed external
financing includes IDA and AFESD Credit of US$1 million and US$0.8 million
equivalent respectively and US$0.2 million from UNDP.
3.27     Strengthening of Agricultural Economic Analysis Capacity in MAAR.
Through a three-year consultant assignment, the Project will assist the
Government with the establishment of a unit in MAAR to evaluate all relevant
data for the formulation and regular adjustment of its agricultural price and
other policies (para. 1.12).
3.28     Hydrogeological Monitoring.  The project will provide for systematic
groundwater and surface water monitoring throughout the valley. The data base
for mathematical modelling will be regularly upgraded for recalibration of the
model during the second half of the project (para. 4.23).
3.29     Preparation of Possible Future Project.  A feasibility study,
including semi-detailed and the required detailed designs, will be prepared by
consultants for a possible future Agricultural Development Project in the
third and fourth year of execution of WHP II. The study is expected to be
financed by KFAED.
D. Status of Engineering
3.30     On the basis of its contract with the Government, and financed under
IDA's PPF, SOGREAH prepared the following engineering studies and designs:
-  semi-detailed designs at 1:10,000 scale of the whole project area;
-  detailed designs at 1:2,000 scale of four representative sample
areas totalling 400 ha;
-  detailed designs for 75 ha of sprinkler and drip irrigation;
-  detailed designs for spate rehabilitation works commanding 300 ha
and for repair of a wadi check dam; and
-  tender documents for well drilling.
Design modifications required as a result of IDA's project appraisal are being
carried out by a team of expatriate and national staff, partly financed
through the balance of IDA's PPF. This resulted in the availability of
detailed irrigation designs for 400 ha in the Al Qatn, Tarim and Howela
irrigation sectors, in addition to 75 ha of sprinkler and drip irrigation,
thereby covering the required design work for construction in the first year.
3.31     Tender documents for the procurement of drilling and land levelling
equipment and job descriptions for expatriate personnel have been prepared.
E. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.32     Cost Estimates.  The estimated cost of the Project including
contingencies, flood control and other studies and IDA's credit advance for
project preparation, adjusted for December 1982 price levels, is YD 12.4



- 21 -
million (US$36.0 million equivalent). The foreign exchange component is
estimated to be YD 8.4 million (US$24.4 million equivalent) or 67.8% of
Project costs. The cost of imported equipment and materials reflects
international market prices. Goods and services procured under IDA-assisted
projects in PDRY are exempted from import taxes and duties. Estimates for the
hiring of expatriate managerial, technical and consulting personnel reflect
the cost of recent contracts for similar assignments in the Region and range
from US$20,000 per man-year for junior technical personnel employed through
direct contract from other countries in the region, to US$90,000 per man-year
inclusive of support services, for senior technical staff for the drilling
unit. Quantities for costing of civil works have been evaluated on the basis
of semi-detailed and detailed designs prepared by consultants, and mission
estimates of the required modifications. Drilling and land levelling have
been costed as force account works, supported by expatriate managerial and
technical staff and largely with imported equipment. Construction and lining
of ditches are costed on the basis of local contracts. Physical contingencies
vary from 5 to 15% depending on the nature of the equipment, civil works, or
services. Price contingencies on local and foreign costs range from 4% for
the first year of Project implementation (1983) to 35.6% in the last year
(1988), for an overall price increase of 18.8% over base costs. Annual rates
for calculating price contingencies for local and foreign costs are 8% for
1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% thereafter. Total contingencies,
physical and price, are 28.5% of base costs. Import duties, taxes and other
levies are not included in the Project costs as imports for public investment
are exempted from payment of such fees. Project costs are summarized in Table
3.1, while detailed costs are given in Annex 1, Table 1.



Table 3.1; Summary Cost Estimate l/
(YD '000)                                    (us$ '000)
% of
Foreign   % of Total
Local         Foreign         Total         Local          Foreign         Total          Exchange  Base Costs
A.  Irrigation Development            2,165.6           3,865.9       6,031.5      6,277.0        11,205.6        17,482.5           64.1        62.4
B.  Farm Machinery                       29.8             567.1         597.0         86.5          1,643.8        1,730.3          95.0          6.2
C.  Agricultuiral Development           273.8             248.3         522.1        793.6            719.7        1,513.3          47.6          5.4
D.  Project Mgt & Training              312.5             938.7       1,251.3        905.8          2,721.0        3,626.8           75.0        12.9
E.  Project Prep. & Studies 2/          273.5             987.1       1,260.6        792.8          2,861.2        3,653.9           78.3        13.0         1
Total Baseline Costs                  3,055.2           6,607.2       9,662.4      8,855.6         19,151.3       28,006.9           68.4       100.0        I
Physical Contingencies              300.4            628.2          928.6        870.8         1,820.9        2,691.7           67.6         9.6
Price Contingencies                 638.3          1,183.0        1,821.3      1,850.2         3,428.9         5,279.1          65.0        18.8
Total Project Costs                   3,993.9           8,418.4      12,412.3    11,576.6         24,401.1        35,977.7           67.8       128.5
1/ Discrepancies due to rounding.
2/ PPF advance, flood control studies, hydrogeological monitoring, economic analysis assistance and feasibility studies for possible
future Agricultural Development Project.



- 23 -
3.33     Financing.  An IDA credit of US$9 million equivalent, on standard
terms, will finance about US$6.7 million equivalent or 27% of the Project's
foreign costs, and US$2.3 million equivalent or 20% of the local cost. The
Government of PDRY will finance US$3.9 million equivalent of local costs which
represent 11% of total cost. Project beneficiaries are expected to finance
Ub;0.3 million equivalent of the local cost which is about 1% of total cost.
Co-financing is required for the balance of US$17.8 million equivalent or 73%
of foreign cost and US$5.0 million equivalent or 43% of local costs. The
Government lhas approached the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
(AFESD) and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) to
co-finance this Project. Both organizations have expressed interest in
providing the required financing and KFAED has already appraised the Project
and expects to submit it to their Board by about June 1983. AFESD has
scheduled appraisal in about October 1983 and expects to present the Project
to its Board in about February 1984. Signing of the KFAED Loan Agreement will
be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.  During negotiations, IDA at
the request of the delegation of PDRY agreed to establishment of a revolving
fund (Special Account) of US$300,000 for the financing of civil works,
consultant services and equipment for Project Management. Establishment of a
Special Account for this purpose with NBY will be a condition of effectiveness
of the Credit. The Government would make suitable arrangements to provide the
required working capital for drilling and well improvement works in case such
works would be carried out through force account and will propose to AFESD to
establish a similar revolving fund for execution of civil works financed by
AFESD.



Table 3.2: Financing Plan /
Government,
Beneficiaries
and UNDP                     IDA                      AFESD                   KFAED                  Total
FE     LC   Total       FE       LC   Total       FE        LC   Total   FE        LC    Total
--------------------------------- US$ million equivalent --------------------------------
Irrigation Development
Drilling and well improvement          -       0.1   0.1        -         -       -        -         -     -      7.8      1.8    9.6             9.7
Construction unit                      -       0.7   0.7        -         -       -       1.1        -    1.1      -        -      -              1.8
irrigation Conveyance                  -       1.1   1.1        -         -       -      3.8       3.0   6.8       -       -       -              7.9
Land levelling                                  -              0.7       0.8    1.5       0.8        -    0.8      -        -      -              2.3
Spate, drip, sprinkler irri-
gation and erosion control                    0.1   0.1       0.6       0.7    1.3        -         -     -       -        -      -              1.4
Farm Machinery                          -       0.1   0.1        -         -       -       2.2        -    2.2      -        _      _              2.3
Agricultural Development                                                                                                                                       r
Agricuitural extension & services   -          0.5   0.5       0.3        -      0.3       -         -     -       -        -      -              0.8
Orchard and production credit                   -     -        0.3       0.3    0.6        -         -     -       -        -      -              0.6
Date rehabiliation, nursery and
horticultural research               -       0.3   0.3        -         -       -       0.3        -    0.3      -        -      -              0.6
Project management and training         -       1.0   1.0       3.4       0.1    3.5        -         -     -       -        -                     4.5
Project preparation and studies /_               -      -       0.8        -      0.8       -         -     -      0.8      0.2    1.0             1.8
Flood control planning                 0.2 /3  0.3   0.5        0.6       0.4    1.0       0.8        -    0.8      -        -       -             2.3
Total                                  0.2      4.2   4.4       6.7       2.3    9.0       9.0       3.0  12.0    8.6       2.0   10.6            36.0
/1 Provisional, to be confirmed following current contacts with co-financiers.
77 lncluding IjA's advance PPF of US$0.5 million and KFAED's financing of studies for a possible future Agricultural Development Project.
/3 Financing by U.N.D.P. under technical assistance program.



- 25 -
F. Procurement
J.34     IDA-financed equipment for land levelling (US$0.7 million) will be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
iDA guidelines.  To benefit from standardization, IDA-financed vehicles (about
US$0.28 million equivalent) will be procured through Limited International
Tendering (LIT).  To facilitate purchase of urgently needed minor items,
equipment to a total value not exceeding US$0.3 million and US$25,000 per item
will De procured through the Government's LIT-based procurement procedures,
provided IDA conditions regarding origin and mode of shipment are adhered to.
Subject to its approval of the credit, IDA has agreed to advance contracting
for possible retroactive financing of five prefabricated housing units to a
maximum value of $0.2 million through LIT procedures.
3.35     Execution of 3,150 ha of land levelling costing US$0.9 million
equivalent for all items other than equipment, will be carried out on
relatively small units of fallow land to cause the least possible disruption
of current year's crops. A close coordination with the cooperatives and
farmers' groups is needed. Therefore, this work does not lend itself to
international contracting and in the absence of local contractors will be
carried out through force account. An early start of execution will be
ensured through the use of equipment and personnel already available from WHP
I and MRS.
3.36     IDA-financed farm inputs including fertilizers (US$0.33 million
equivalent) will be procured as part of PASC's bulk purchase, which are made
tarough LIT procedures acceptable to IDA, provided IDA's conditions on origin
and shipment are met. Items not included in PASC's bulk purchase will be
procured through LIT or normal commercial channels as is usual in credit
projects.
3.37     The irrigation conveyance system, expected to be financed by sources
othier than IDA, involves construction of about 100 km of concrete-lined
ditches having capacities between 20 I/s and 50 l/s, 145 km of unlined ditches
of capacities between 15 l/s and 20 l/s, and 16 km of PVC and asbestos cement
pipelines.  These small-size engineering works will be scattered over an area
of 1,000 km2 and largely integrated with the existing irrigation system,
requiring close coordination between the operation of the system by the
farmers and the construction activities. Work of this nature and with such
limitations is not attractive for international bidding. Therefore,
construction of concrete-lined and unlined ditches and laying of pipelines
will be carried out by letting out contracts in subsectors of 500-1,000 ha
each, for which local contractors are believed to have the resources. The
contracts will be awarded by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in accordance
with the procedures of Government acceptable to the financing agency. For
laying PVC and asbestos cement pipelines through LCB along with the contracts
for construction of lined and unlined ditches, the contractors will be
supplied with the required pipes and fixtures by the Project. Their
procurement will be done by the Project through LIT or other procedures
acceptable to the financing agency. The contractors will be able to rent
machines for laying canal embankments and digging trenches for pipes from the
Macihine Renting Station (MRS) of the Ministry of Agriculture.



- 26 -
3.38     The sprinkler and drip irrigation demonstrations located in three
different areas of 25 ha each will be installed by force account. Sufficient
manpower will be available in the Project and the Extension Service to
organize and supervise their establishment. Equipment and materials will be
procured in accordance with LIT procedures. Similarly, works for the date
rehabilitation demonstration will be carried out by force account, with the
exception of LCB for irrigation conveyance improvement. The rehabilitation of
spate irrigation works and sills, and deepening of shallow wells and
construction of pumphouses for the tubewells will be carried out through local
contracts awarded on the basis of LCB.
3.39     The LCB procedures of PDRY require that tender notice for major works
should be given wide publicity in local press.  The bids are evaluated on the
basis of previously publicized criteria by an evaluation committee of the
Government.  The award is made to the lowest evaluated bid after approval has
been received from the competent Government authority.
3.40     At an estimated cost of US$9.4 million equivalent, drilling and
equipping of new tubewells is the Project's most important component for
procurement, expected to be financed by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (KFAED). A high-risk factor, uncertainty concerning future
large-scale drilling in the country, high mobilization and demobilization
costs are among the reasons for exorbitantly high prices recently quoted by
foreign contractors for drilling in other projects in the country. No private
national drilling contractors exist and the drilling section of the irrigation
department, recently reconstituted as PDC, will not be capable to carry out
large drilling tasks. To accomplish the work within the scheduled time at a
reasonable cost, the alternative solution is to establish a drilling unit
under HPOII by:
(i) procurement of one rig and all support equipment for two;
(ii) secondment of some available staff and one rig from PDC to HPOII;
(iii) recruitment of expatriate specialist staff; and
(iv) supervision of execution by expatriate consultants.
Of the two rigs required, PDC will be able to provide one for the duration of
Project execution, as the demands of its own progam will be met through its
other existing equipment.
3.41     KFAED meanwhile estimates that drilling and well development could be
carried out through contract within the amount estimated by IDA. MAAR will
issue invitations to bid accordingly. At negotiations IDA received assurances
that, in case bid invitations are nonresponsive, MAAR will make the necessary
arrangements for execution by HPOII's execution unit on the basis of force
account.
3.42     Seventy-five percent of all bidding packages for land levelling
equipment, IDA financed vehicles and sprinkler equipment will be subject to
IDA's prior review of procurement documentation. The balance of contracts
will be subject to random post review by IDA. The terms of reference,



- 27 -
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of
expatriate staff to be employed in IDA-financed components will be in
accordance with IDA guidelines issued in August 1981. All procurement will be
performed by HPOII. Insofar as the IDA-financed components are concerned,
assurances that the above procurement procedures will be followed will be
sought during negotiations (para. 7.01). For items financed by other sources,
procurement will be in accordance with their respective rules.
G. Disbursements
3.43     The proposed IDA and the two co-financiers' credits of US$9 million,
about US$12.2 million and US$10.6 million equivalent, respectively, will be
disbursed over a six-year period starting July 1983. Disbursements will be
made by each financing agency directly for components it agrees to finance.
The proposed IDA credit will be disbursed" as follows;
(a) Prefabricated houses
- 100% of foreign expenditures.
(b) Land levelling
- 100% of equipment costs.
- 70% of amount expended on force account.
(c)  Project management and training
- 100% of foreign expenditures on consultant services.
- 100% of foreign expenditures for overseas training.
- 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and vehicles.
- 85% of operating costs for vehicles and office
maintenance and rent.
(d) Credit
100% of foreign and 100% of local expenditures for procure-
ment of incremental requirements of improved seed, fertilizer,
agricultural chemicals and seedlings.
(e) Spate Irrigation, Erosion Control, Sprinkler and Drip Irrigation
Demonstrations
- 100% of foreign and local expenditures on equipment for
sprinkler and spate irrigation and 95% of expenditures on force
account works.
(f) Agricultural Extension and Services
- 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equipment for PCMFV
and the Extension Service in the project area.
1/ Exclusive of all import duties and taxes.



- 28 -
(g)  Flood Control Planning
- 40% of foreign expenditures for consultant
services and equipment and. 60% of local expenditures.
(h)  Hydrogeological monitoring and Agricultural Economic Analysis
Support
- 100% of foreign exchange expenditures for consultant services.
3.44     Disbursements will be made against normal documentation except for
reimbursement to HPOII on force account, which will be made against monthly
statements of expenditure (SOE), and also a special account (revolving fund)
will be maintained with the National Bank of Yemen for disbursements against
parts of Categories 1, 2 and 3 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit
Agreement, both in accordance with II)A procedures. These will be signed by
the project manager and certified by the Director of the Department of
Irrigation in MAAR (para. 4.05) for eligibility prior to submission for
reimbursement. All supporting documentation should be available for review by
supervision missions of the financing agencies. During negotiations, IDA
obtained assurances to this effect and discussed the feasibility of annual
audits of the concerned documentation (paras. 4.21 and 7.01). The estimated
annual disbursements of IDA, AFESD, KFAED credits by the Government by IDA
financial years are as follows:
Table 3.3: Estimated Disbursements
FY84     FY85      FY86      FY87      FY88     FY89
------- US  million -------------------
Annual;
IDA                     2.1       2.3       1.7       1.2       1.0      0.7
AFESD                    1.1       3.0      3.1       3.2       1.0       0.6
KFAED                    1.7       2.7      2.6       2.6       0.7       0.3
Government               0.5       1.1      1.2       0.9       0.5        -
UNDP                     0.2        -        -         -         -         -
Cumulative:
IDA                      2.1      4.4       6.1       7.3       8.3      9.0
AFESD                    1.1       4.1       7.2     10.4      11.4      12.0
KFAED                    1.7      4.4       7.0       9.6      10.3      10.6
Government               0.5       1.6      2.8       3.7       4.2      4.2
UNDP                     0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2
The Project Completion and IDA Credit Closing Dates will be June 30, and
December 31, 1988, respectively. Disbursements for all commitments made prior
to the latter date are expected to be completed in FY89.
3.45     The disbursement profile for the Project was compared with other IDA
credits to PDRY and with agricultural projects in the EMENA Region.



- 29 -
Year from Date of Approval
EMENA Region              No. of Projects                50% Disbursed
All agricultural projects              67                first half of 5th year
Rural development projects              6                second half of 4th year
Livestock projects                      6                first half of 3rd year
Irrigation projects                   31                 second half of 5th year
PDRY:  all projects                   13                 first half of 4th year
Under the Project, 50% of the IDA credit is estimated to be disbursed in the
third year after Board approval. The estimated more rapid disbursement as
compared to agricultural projects in the Region and other projects in PDRY is
due to an expected rapid take-off through the continuation of services of key
staff of WHP I, and the availability of WHP I office, housing and transport
facllities, a functional regional extension unit. Moreover, 75% of the
disbursements in the first half-year will consist of repayment of the IDA
advance (PPF) of $0.5 million for Project preparation (P150 YDR) and $0.2
million retroactive financing of prefabricated houses for Project staff
expected to be procured through advance contracting. Execution of civil works
(drilling, land-levelling, ditch-lining), meanwhile, will not need to await
the arrival of newly procured equipment but could start with equipment and
personnel already available through arrangements with PDC, MRS and small local
contractors.
H. Environmental, Nutritional and Health Impacts
Environment
3.46      The Project is not expected to have adverse effects on the
environment. Rehabilitation of sills will reduce erosion of the valley bed
and, with spate irrigation improvement works, increase groundwater recharge.
Spatial distribution of groundwater extraction throughout the valley
(para. 2.07) will minimize the risk of geographical concentration of
watertable drawdown. Systematic quantitative and qualitative groundwater
monitoring will be carried out (para. 4.24) to ensure a balanced development
of this resource.
Health
3.47      Training of extension agents in the safe handling and use
of plant protection chemicals, started under WHP I, will continue. Until
farmers are adequately trained, crops and orchard spraying will be carried out
by or under the supervision of extension staff. Staff of the Seiyun and El
Kod Agricultural Research Stations will make recommendations for plant
protection treatment and dosages.
Nutrition
3.48      The Project will also have a beneficial effect on the health of the
population in the valley and other parts of the country through an increased
production of vegetables and fruit, of which the consumption at present is the



- 30 -
lowest in the Near East Region (paras. 2.21 and 6.06). Replacement of some
300 shallow wells by 55 tubewells will enable a large part of the scattered
rural population to use non-contaminated, better quality water for drinking,
thereby creating conditions for improved health standards.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      MAAR will have overall responsibility for Project implementation,
for which it will establish the Second Wadi Hadramawt Project Organization
(HPOII) including an execution unit established through a resolution by the
Council of Ministers (under Articles 99, 104 and 107 of the Constitution).
This will have the status of a special construction unit with legal authority
to enter into contractual agreements and to recruit personnel. Office and
housing facilities and local staff of: the HPOI will be retained for HPOII. To
permit an early start-up of implementation, HPOII will be provisionally
established under a ministerial order which will provide it with adequate
authority to recruit staff and initiate procurement action. The Council of
Ministers' resolution to formally establish the execution unit in HPOII with
full powers will be a condition of effectiveness (paras. 3.24 and 7.01).
4.02      In case of nonresponsiveness of bids for drilling and well
development, MAAR will enter into a special agreement with PDC enabling the
use of one drilling rig from PDC, some local staff, and logistical facilities
during the Project construction period. In return, at the end of the drilling
period, PDC will receive one rig and supporting equipment procured by HPOII
(paras. 3.24, 3.41 and 7.01). The latter will engage consultants and
expatriate staff (paras. 3.23 and 4.11) as required for Project management,
drilling, land-levelling, irrigation design and construction, and agricultural
extension and research support.
4.03      HPOII and its execution unit will consist of sections for design,
construction, drilling, contracts and procurement, administration and finance,
and monitoring and evaluation (Chart WB 24151). HPOII will be headed by a
qualified project manager assisted by a senior irrigation engineer. To assist
the extension service and the cooperative department to train farmers in the
new farm units in financial management, irrigation management and practices,
operation and maintenance of pumping equipment and farm machinery, and orchard
establishment, the Project will provide an internationally recruited
cooperative training specialist, an irrigation extensionist and a
horticulturist. The latter will also assist with nursery expansion and fruit
tree experimentation.
4.04      To facilitate Project execution, HPOII will be supported by the
local authorities through a local advisory committee (LAC), which had already
functioned under WHP I.  An assurance was obtained during negotiations that
LAC will be continued under WHP II (para. 7.01). Apart from the Project
Manager, it will be composed of representatives of the Governor, the party,
and all concerned departments of MAAR, NBY, MRS, PCMFV, PWC, and Public



- 31 -
Corporation for Electricity and Power (PCEP). LAC may appoint subgroups which
will include a standing committee on groundwater development and management,
and should comprise representatives of the Irrigation Department, the
Department of State Farms of MAAR, in addition to PWC and HPOII.
4.05      Policy matters will be dealt with at the national level through a
Central Coordinating and Steering Committee (CCSC) in MAAR, chaired by the
Minister of Agriculture or his Deputy. Membership will include the Project
Manager, the Provincial Director of Agriculture, the Directors of the
Departments of Planning, Irrigation, Cooperatives, Research and Extension and
a representative each of the Ministers of Planning and Finance.
Representatives of PDC, NBY, PASC, PCMFV, NCHT, PWC, and PCEP will be invited,
when needed. A permanent secretariat of CCSC consisting of a permanent
secretary, financial and administrative office and clerical support staff,
will be established within the Department of Irrigation and Mechanical
Engineering (DIME) in Aden. This will periodically monitor the financial
control activities of HPOII, and consolidate expenditures approved by HPOII
with expenditures requiring approval by MAAR and the Ministry of Planning,
including all international procurement using proceeds of the international
financing institutions. The permanent secretariat will, moreover, receive the
Project's Progress Reports. CCSC will meet every six months.
4.06      CCSC will also have overall control over selection and retention of
consultants for studies of a possible future Agricultural Development Project,
while administration and routine supervision will be the responsibility of
HPOII. MAAR will be directly responsible for all matters pertaining to
consultants required for Economic Analysis Support and Flood Control. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained regarding the establishment of CCSC,
its composition, staff and functions, including the role of its permanent
secretariat in monitoring and financial control (para. 7.01).
4.07      The new farm units to be established in the project area will
gradually take over some of the functions of the agricultural cooperatives
with regard to operation and maintenance of pumpsets, farm machinery and the
irrigation network (para. 4.14). Several farm units will form one new
cooperative which will take over the functions of the present large
cooperatives. Full responsibility for operation and maintenance will be
transferred gradually after farmers have been adequately trained.
4.08      The cooperatives will retain formal ownership of pumpsets and farm
machinery, but will enter into agreement with the farm units guaranteeing the
exclusive use rights of the equipment by the farm units. Similarly, the
working groups constituting the farm units will receive full use rights of any
new orchards established and rehabilitated under the Project (paras. 3.17,
3.20, 3.22, 4.20 and 7.01).
B. Civil Works
4.09      Project Implementation.  The engineering components of the project
for execution are:



-- 32 -
(a) drilling of tubewells and installation of well components;
(b) construction of pumphouses;
(c) deepening of shallow wells;
(d)  replacement of pumping units of existing tubewells;
(e) land levelling;
(t)  construction of irrigation conveyance and distribution system;
(g)  installation of sprinkler and drip irrigation systems in
demonstration farms; and
(h)  rehabilitation of spate irrigation system and wadi protection
works.
4.10      HPOII's execution unit wilL include two sections for implementation
of engineering components.  A drilling section will be responsible for
component (a) and a construction section for components (b) through (h) listed
above. The sections will be under the administrative and technical control of
the Project Manager, assisted by the Senior Irrigation Engineer, and will
include internationally recruited engineering staff comprising an Office
Engineer for five years, and regionally recruited staff consisting of two
Design Engineers, one Chief Surveyor and three Draftsmen. There will be an
adequate number of local staff as counterparts who will receive transfer of
knowledge through actual participation in the project work and assistance to
the expatriate staff in their day-to-day work. The function of this core of
engineering staff who will be stationed at the Project headquarters will be to
plan and organize overall functions of the sections, design and prepare
construction drawings of engineering works, compile and keep data, records and
files and prepare project technical notes and reports.
4.11      In case drilling and well development are not executed through
contract, the drilling section will comprise internationally recruited
consulting engineers (The Consultant) who will assist HPOII in the procurement
of equipment and materials and carrying out drilling of tubewells and
installation of pumping units. The Consultants will establish a field office
at Seiyun under the charge of a drilling superintendent who will be the
consultants' representative on the Project. The Consultants will recruit
staff required for implementation of this component of the Project for HPOII
locally and internationally, preferably from the adjoining countries subject
to availability. This staff will be employed and paid by HPOII but will be
assigned to work for The Consultant., Provision has been made in the budget
for occasional visits by consultants' short-term experts to the Project as and
when needed. The office staff and other staff for The Consultant will be
recruited locally and paid by HPOII,. The local skilled staff will be obtained
mostly on secondment from the Drilling Corporation of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
4.12      The construction section will be charged with the execution of all
engineering works related to on-farrm development, deepening of shallow wells,
replacement of pumping sets, sprink.Ler and drip irrigation installation, spate
and wadi protection works. There will be two Divisions of the Section, one in
charge of areas on the west of Seiyun headquartered at Al Qatn and the other
for areas on the eastern side headquartered at Tarim. Provision has been made
to rent office accommodations for the two Sections at Al Qatn and Tarim. For
each Division, field staff will comprise a civil engineer, a surveyor and a



- 33 -
draftsman, all expatriates, assisted by local counterparts and the support
staff. These two Divisions will supervise the work of land levelling by force
account and assist HPOII in all aspects of contract administration for
construction of irrigation conveyance and distribution systems, pumphouses and
other engineering works.
C. Operation and Maintenance
4.13      Each irrigation block will be designed to combine a tubewell and
some shallow wells as a common source of water supply for that particular
block of about 50 ha. Each block having an exclusive source of water will
also be operated independently and will be given the entity of an operation
and maintenance unit to be managed cooperatively by several groups of farmers
of the block functioning within the existing cooperative (para. 2.12). For
the operation and maintenance of irrigation conveyance and distribution
systems, the Project design engineers will prepare necessary rules and
guidelines, giving consideration to, inter alia, the quality of water from the
available sources and the manner in which conjunctive use of water from the
deep and shallow aquifer should be made. The criteria for operation of
tubewells and guidelines for the maintenance of pumping units will also be
documented by HPOII, for use by the unit concerned. Similarly, HPOII will
formulate a rotation system for equitable sharing of water by the farmers,
which will be enforced by the concerned unit. The units, which will function
as sub-cooperatives, will collect shares from the individual farmers towards
the cost of operation and maintenance of water supply and irrigation
facilities. The quality of maintenance will be ensured by the cooperatives
with technical assistance and guidance from the local branch of the Extension
and Irrigation Department of MAAR.
4.14      Control of operation and maintenance by the units will be from the
tubewells and shallow wells right through the unlined ditches, each of which
will supply water to areas of 10-15 ha. The units will be responsible for
replenishing fuel, lubricants and other materials required for operation and
maintenance and will call upon MRS for major repairs and replacement of
machine parts. The cooperatives will assist with arrangements for credit to
replace damaged and worn out equipment and other major expenses. The
demonstration units of sprinkler and drip irrigation will be treated as
independent blocks for the purpose of operation and maintenance and managed in
the same manner as given above.
4.15      Since the utility of spate irrigation and relief provided by the
wadi bed protection facilities will extend beyond the limits of an irrigation
block, the operation and maintenance of these facilities will be managed by
the main cooperatives. The expenses on an actual cost basis for the spate
irrigation system will be recovered by the cooperatives from the units
benefitting from spate irrigation. The wadi protection works will, however,
be funded by the Government through the Irrigation Department of MAAR.
4.16      Operation and management costs will increase from YD 4 per 1,000
m3 for an average of 8,000 m of irrigation water applied per year without
project to YD 7.8 per 1,000 m3 for an average of 12,400 m3 at full
development (Annex 3, Table 2).



-- 34 -
D.  Credit
4.17      The Government will channel YD 1.19 million (US$3.45 million), or
about 11% of Project funds used for the project area, through NBY for short-
and medium-term loans to cooperatives and the PCMFV. Starting at the end of
the third year after disbursement of medium-term loans, NBY will repay
Government over nine years with an interest rate not less than 5% p.a. under
terms and conditions of onlending as specified in para 4.19 which are to be
included in the subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and NBY
(paras. 4.19 and 7.01). The total sum will be directly recovered from
sub-borrowers. Present lending procedures of NBY will be adhered to, save
that HPOII and Extension Service staEf will be responsible for appraising loan
requests. Provision is made by the Project for strengthening of the Seiyun
branch of the NBY to deal with the expected increased workload resulting from
the Project. Moreover, since NBY thus far has had only limited experience
with agricultural credit, the expatriate credit specialist assigned to the
Wadi Beihan Project (Credit 1145-YDR) will provide advice to NBY on lending
operations for agriculture and the Ministry of Finance will guarantee all
subloans to project beneficiaries. Assurances to this effect were received
during negotiations.
4.18      Of the total of YD 1.19 million, about 90% (YD 1.08 million) will be
for medium-term loans and 10% (YD 0.11 million) for short-term lending.
Nearly 71% of medium-term loans will be for farm machinery; about 17% for
pump-sets, both destined for farmer groups in the cooperatives; 8% will be for
orchard development by cooperative members; and 4% for purchase of trucks by
the local branch of PCMFV.
4.19      Short-term (seasonal) loans will be extended to the cooperatives for
fertilizer and insecticides. Short- and medium-term loans, most of which will
be in kind, will be extended to the cooperatives, on behalf of the farmers'
groups, at rates of not less than 8% and 7.5%, respectively. Short-term loan
will be up to 100% of the required financing while medium-term loans will be
for not more than 90%. Medium-term loans will have a six-year repayment
period with a grace period of one year for interest and principal. Recovery
will be made with interest by the local branch of NBY through transfer
payments made by the cooperatives and PCMFV on behalf of the farmers' groups.
Projected (1982-1984) and historic (1979-1981) rates of inflation are 8.5%
p.a. and 10-12% p.a., respectiLvely. Interest rates apply equally to all
sectors of the economy.
4.20      Short-term and medium-term loans will be extended at interest rates
of not less than 8% and 7.5%, respectively, and these rates will be applicable
to all IDA-assisted projects in the agriculture and fisheries sectors in PDRY,
while any future upward adjustments of interest rates by NBY will also be
applied to Project loans. These terms will form part of the subsidiary Loan
Agreement which the Government will enter into with NBY, and which will be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 7.01).
4.21      Cooperatives and their farm units will qualify for loans to finance
purchase of agricultural machinery and of pumpsets, provided the farm units
will make, into their account with the cooperatives, a contribution of about



- 35 -
10% towards the capital cost of such equipment. Such contribution will
constitute the initial payment in a long-term lease arrangement
between the cooperative and the farm unit for their long-term use of such
capital equipment (para 4.07, 4.09 and 4.14). During negotiations, assurances
were obtained to the effect that (i) farm units will be required to provide
not less than 10% equity contribution to the proposed investment for orchard
establishment and (ii) that such contribution will entitle the farmers the use
of such capital goods under a long-term lease agreement between the farm units
and their respective Cooperatives (paras. 3.17, 3.22, 4.08 and 7.01). It is
the Government's intention to permit the same arrangements for pumpsets and
farm machinery to be obtained with credit provided by the other financing
sources.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.22      All organizations connected with Project implementation, i.e., NBY,
PCMPV, the cooperatives, the local branch of MAAR's Research and Extension
Department, and HPOII will maintain separate accounts of all Project-related
expenditures. These accounts will be audited by the Central Board of Auditing
CiBA), thereto assigned by law, within six months of the end of each financial
year. Thus far, the CBA has been deficient in performing this task on time
for entities related to IDA-financed projects. However, IDA has initiated a
series of consultations and will assist with training to enable CBA to carry
out the required audits in accordance with a timetable agreed by the
Government and IDA. A qualified financial officer in HPOI is expected to be
retained for the HPOII to supervise financial administration of its various
sections, to consolidate financial statements and assist Project management
with programming and budgeting. To strengthen the Project's capacity,
provision is made for staff training in this field. Consolidated Project
Accounts will be kept by the permanent Secretariat of the CCSC, which will
prepare a 6-monthly financial report for the CCSC meetings to be summarized in
the semi-annual reports to IDA (para. 4.24). During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the auditors' reports of the above organizations will be
submitted to IDA within nine months after the end of each fiscal year (para.
7.01), and that HPOII will keep all records evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals were requested from the Credit Account for the
purpose of works carried by force account for one year after the credit
closing date. All such SOEs will be available for review by IDA staff. These
SOEs will be subject to a separate opinion by external auditors.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.23      Monitoring and evaluation of Project achievements and the means
employed will be carried out by HPOII both for planning and control purposes
and to facilitate reporting to the Government and financing agencies. Socio-
economic and agricultural baseline data collected under WHP I will be
periodically updated, in particular through systematic annual yield sampling
for all major crops and surveys of fruit and vegetable sales and consumption.
Standardized records will be kept of Project costs, means and effects,
Project-supplied inputs used by cooperatives, production costs and producer
prices.



- 36 -
4.24      Groundwater and surface water monitoring, including monitoring of
groundwater quality, are essential planning tools for the implementation of
the Project and further development and management of water resources in the
valley. The interpretation of aquifer behavior and its effect on water
quality under projected abstractions is based on a mathematical model run on
computer. The hydrogeological data base for the model will be regularly
upgraded, and towards the end of the Project the model will be reviewed and
recalibrated to improve the data base for groundwater development and
management (para. 3.28).
4.25      For these tasks, a monitoring and evaluation section will be
established within HPOII. It will receive periodic reports from the concerned
Project entities and prepare semi-annual progress and annual summary reports
for the Government and financing agencies in accordance with an acceptable
format. A completion report will be submitted to the Government and financing
agencies within six months of ]?roject completion, and during the subsequent
five years, the Government will prepare and copy to IDA an annual report on
the Project's effect on production, income and water resource conditions
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations (para. 7.01).
4.26      An expatriate specialist will assist with the establishment and
initital operation of the monitoring and evaluation section. Subsequently,
the work will be carried out by national staff, if necessary with the help of
short-term consultants. An expatriate hydrogeologist will organize and
supervise ground and surface water monitoring, including the collection,
recording and interpretation of tubewell drilling test data. Provision is
also made for specialized consultant assistance and computer rental for
recalibration and review of the mathematical model.
G. InternationaL Commodity Agreements
4.27      Of the various commodities to be produced under the project, only
wheat and citrus are governed by international commodity agreements. Given
the small expected increments in production (about 2,000 and 4,000 tons for
wheat and citrus, respectively), the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Department has advised that consultation with international commodity organi-
zations is not required. It should also be noted that PDRY is deficient in
all commodities to be produced under the project and is a net importer of most
of these.
V. PRODUCTION, PRICES AND MARKETING
A. AgricuLtural Production
5.01      The project is expected to generate substantial increases in
agricultural production on account of:
(i)   an 80% expansion of the cropped area following the increased
availability of irrigation water (from about 1,700 ha to
nearly 3,000 ha);



- 37 -
(ii)  marked increases in crop yields reflecting substantial
investments in land levelling and water distribution systems,
as well as a significant amelioration of average irrigation
water quality; and
(iii) introduction of a shift towards high value crops (e.g.,
citrus, potatoes) in conjunction with intensified extension
efforts.
Without the project, the prospects for significant yield improvements or
changes in cropping pattern will be severely constrained by the increasingly
poor quality of irrigation water and falling water tables.
5.02      In the case of annual crops, with-project yield levels are expected
to be reached five years after completion of physical works in any given area;
for the entire project area, this corresponds to a ten-year gestation period
in the case of annual crops and a 15-year period for perennials. Expected
performance estimates take into consideration that full results of WHP I are
likely to be achieved only in combination with the irrigation improvements to
be implemented by WHP II. With-project performance estimates for WHP II are
based on the promising results of the first two years of the farm units where
irrigation improvements were introduced in conjunction with improved cultural
practices (paras. 2.32-2.34). Expected without- and with-project yields and
production are tabulated below:
Table 5.1: Crop Areas, Yields, Production
Area     Yield   Production       Area      Yield   Production
(ha)     (t/ha)       (t)         (ha)      (t/ha)       (t)
-------Without Project-------   --------With Project-------
Wheat (HYV)          310       1.9         590          970        2.7        2,620
Wheat (local)        335       1.4         470          325        1.9          615
Sorghum              375       1.2         450          365        1.7          620
Sesame                75       0.5          40           80        0.8           65
Onions               175       8.0       1,400          210       13.0        2,730
Potatoes              -         -          -            290       16.0        4,640
Tomatoes             105      13.0       1,365          200       20.0        4,000
Summer veg-
etables              30      10.0         300          105       15.0        1,575
Alfalfa              195      50.0       9,750          185       75.0       13,875
green
Citrus                -         -          -            190       20.0        3,800
Dates /1            ( 65)       -          360         (_65)       -            520
Total              1,665                              2,985
/1 20,300 productive palm trees at 17.5 and 25.6 kg/tree without- and
with-project, respectively. For purposes of water requirements and crop
intensity, area covered by date palms is estimated at 65 ha.



-- 38 -
B. Prices
5.03     Farmgate and consumer prices in PDRY are either fully controlled by
the Government, partially controlled or entirely free. Whenever prices are
regulated, these are uniform throughout the country. Fully controlled prices
are applicable to wheat, sorghum and sesame. Partially controlled product
prices include those of onions, potatoes, tomatoes, certain vegetables and
citrus. Prices of these commodities are also fixed by Government; but
although 60% of the producers' output has to be sold through the officially
designated marketing agency at the fixed price, the remainder can, in
principle, be sold directly by the cooperatives in the market at prices not
exceeding a limit 50% above the official price. In the financial analysis, no
such price premium has been accounted for because only little use is being
made of this option and present practice is, in the main, expected to
continue. Cooperatives are reluctant to enter into marketing because of the
risks involved and they demonstrate a definite preference for selling to the
marketing agency at a guaranteed floor price. The marketing of certain
commodities, such as animals and animal products, green vegetables, alfalfa,
stover and straw, is entirely free from control, and prices are determined by
market forces only. The marketing of dates is also free, but prices are
seasonally established for quantities delivered at the packing plant.
5.04     Following a period of comparatively low producer prices during most
of the last decade, producer prices of many crops were raised sharply in
1979. This, together with falling international prices of many agricultural
products, has caused the domestic production prices now to be substantially
above import parity levels and as a consequence domestic production is, in
many instances, now at least nominally protected.
5.05     Farm-gate prices used throughout the financial analysis are tabulated
below:
Table 5.2: Farm-Gate Prices 1982
YD/Ton             US$/Ton
Wheat                      168                 487
Sorghum                   158                  458
Sesame                    498                1,444
Onions                     152                 440
Potatoes                   165                 478
Tomatoes                    55                 160
Summer vegetables         120                  348
Alfalfa                     50                 145
Citrus                    300                  870
Dates                      125                 362
C. Markets and Marketing
5.06     PDRY is a net importer of all commodities to be produced under the
project, with the exception of fresh tomatoes and green vegetables which,
although in short supply, cannot be imported on account of perishability.



- 39 -
In the case of wheat, sorghum, sesame, summer vegetables and alfalfa, all
incremental output will be consumed within the Wadi Hadramawt area itself,
since current local deficits of these are larger than expected production
increments.
5.07     Though considerable local seasonal deficits occur also for the other
commodities--onions, tomatoes, potatoes, citrus and dates--it is expected
that, in these instances, the project will assist in generating increasing
surpluses over time which will help to meet rapidly increasing shortages in
the coastal areas. In short, no market problems are expected to arise because
of relatively large local and national deficits in all commodities to be
produced under the project.
5.08     The marketing of agricultural commodities in PDRY is a combination of
public, cooperative and private sector activities. In the project area, as
elsewhere, grains and oilseeds in excess of producer family consumption are
collected and marketed by the National Company for Home Trade (NCHT).
Similarly, most fruits and vegetables (unless directly sold to the market) are
collected at various points by PCMFV for distribution elsewhere in the Wadi
Hadramawt or for transportation to outlying consumption areas. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the direct sale of small quantities of
fruit and vegetables are already formally authorized (para. 7.01). Certain
non-controlled products, such as fodder and straw, are marketed directly by
the producer, generally in small market places. As the means of
transportation presently available to the PCMFV in the area are inadequate to
handle anticipated marketable surpluses, the project includes a provision for
PCMFV to acquire additional means of transportation for use in handling
production from the project area (paras. 3.19 and 4.17).
D. Taxes and Recovery of Costs
5.09     Of the total project investment for the project area, about 11% will
be in short- and medium-term loans. These loans are expected to be fully
recovered, with interest, from the cooperatives and the PCMFV. Approximately
YD 7.37 million (US$21.37 million) or 67% of all project investment for the
project area will be for on-farm irrigation development. Participating
farmers will be required to pay an annual irrigation improvement tax towards
the capital cost of the irrigation works constructed, which will supersede the
production tax presently levied in the project area. This direct production
tax of 15% on the gross value of production of a number of crops has several
negative aspects in that: (i) it is a tax on output, not profit or gross
margin, it tends to discourage input use; (ii) it discriminates against
farmers who produce goods for sale through the official channels and
encourages production of other untaxed crops, e.g., fodder, which may not have
the highest Government priority; (iii) tax collection is burdensome and adds
to the disharmony between cooperatives and their members; and (iv) it
encourages farmers to under-report parts of the harvested crop, which,
therefore, causes inaccurate production statistics.
5.10     An irrigation improvement charge per unit area will be levied not
later than July 1, 1986, sufficient to cover over 25 years 80% of the capital
costs of the on-farm irrigation development works. The charge will be



- 40 -
regularly reviewed to adjust it on account of changes in the general price
level. As the total project investment in irrigation development is about YD
2,000/ha in 1982 prices (US$5,800/ha), this cost will be recovered, without
interest, in about 12 years through a charge of YD 100/ha gradually increasing
to YD 400/ha in Year 12. At a discount rate of 10%, the Net Present Value of
the capital costs and of the tax receipts indicate that over 25 years, 80% of
the irrigation development capital cost will be recovered. Were the existing
production tax to be maintained, only about 12% of this capital cost would be
recovered through incremental tax receipts. Rent recovery indices for two
cropping patterns were found to be 50% and 43%, respectively (Annex 3,
Table 3).
5.11     At the initial stage, the new taxation system will be a pilot
operation; it is understood, however, that if successful, Government will
consider to extend it to other agricultural areas in the country. While the
Government has already agreed in principle on this new taxation system,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that (i) in the project area, the
Government will substitute an irrigation improvement charge for the present
tax on production and (ii) that it will undertake to adjust the charge level
on account of changes in the general price level at regular intervals (para.
7.01). Within the context of IDA's ongoing agricultural sector policy
dialogue with the Government, attention will be focused on the possibility of
a gradual extension of this taxation system to other parts of the country
(para. 1.09 sub (d) and (e)).
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Beneficiaries and Financial Benefits
6.01     With an annual per capita farm income of about US$325, which is
approximately 30% below the national average, the farmers in the project area
belong to the country's poorer sections of the population. In the absence of
data on farm-size and income distribution in the project area, it is not
possible to furnish information on the proportion of project beneficiaries at
present living in absolute or relative poverty. About 925 families, or nearly
7,400 people will directly benefit from the project; and depending on their
location and size of holdings, their incomes are estimated to increase between
125% and 145% in real terms at full development. Furthermore, an estimated
200,000 Yemenis will enjoy, as a result of the project, a larger and more
reliable supply of fresh fruits and vegetables. As average per caput fruit
and vegetable consumption is still at a very low level, the project is
expected to materially improve the nutritional intake of this group of
consumers.
6.02     Under the project, the principal unit of farmers' organization is the
farm unit, comprising farmers on areas of about 50 hectares. Income and
expenditure flows of two such units, operating different cropping patterns,
were projected (Annex 3). On the basis of these projections, it is expected
that members of these units, while receiving substantial increases in
disposable incomes, will also be in a position to repay medium-term loans and
to pay the proposed new irrigation improvement tax.



- 41 -
B. Economic Rate of Return
6.03     The principal benefits at full development (1999, Year 16) will arise
from the expected incremental crop production (US$7.5 million/year in 1982 at
border parity prices), namely vegetables (US$3.2 million), fruits (US$2.0
million), fodder and straw (US$1.4 million), grains (US$0.7 million) and, to a
lesser extent, oilseeds.
6.04     The rate of return to the economy (ERR) has been calculated on the
basis of the anticipated crop areas and yields and farmers' costs of
production per hectare under improved cultivation practices. No quantified
benefits have been estimated for the provision of the date palm demonstration
plots, the training and research component, spate irrigation and erosion
control, hydrogeological monitoring, economic analysis and flood control at
the national level, feasibility studies of a possible third project, which
together amount to less than 15% of total project costs. The following
assumptions underlie the rate of return computations:
(a) all benefits and costs were calculated in constant December 1982
values, adjusted to represent benefits or costs at the farm
level as appropriate. Benefits and costs, where applicable,
were adjusted for all apparent transfer payments such as taxes
and subsidies;
(b) border prices of tradable outputs were derived from the Bank's
commodity price data (wheat, sorghum, citrus) and in their
absence (onions, potatoes, dates) from FAO trade data and were
adjusted, where possible or appropriate, for grade differentials
and for local handling and transportation costs. Economic
prices of tomatoes and summer vegetables were considered to be
about 10% above 1982 official producer prices, thus reflecting
persistent local shortages of these crops. Economic prices of
such nontradables as fodder and straw were considered to be
identical to their respective 1982 average market prices;
(c) all imported inputs such as fertilizer, chemicals and fuel were
valued at their estimated 1982 border prices. The shadow wage
rate was estimated at YD 1.8/day, which accounts for the
existing employment pattern whereby the daily wage rate for a
farm worker averages YD 2.5/day and can be as high as YD 4.5/day
at harvest time, although unemployment prevails during much of
the year;
(d) all incremental production and farm inputs utilization were
phased in accordance with the anticipated buildup of the areas
cultivated and the projected yield developments. It has been
assumed that, for annual crops, final yield levels will be
attained after five years in any given area, or after ten years
for the entire project area. For tree crops, final yields have
been assumed to be reached after 15 years for the entire project
area; and



- 42 -
(e) a project life of 25 years was assumed. Investment items were
replaced regularly when necessary at the end of their respective
life; salvage values were inputed for part of the heavy
equipment which will still have considerable utility at the end
of the project: construction period. The without-project
situation was considered to be somewhat better than the present
situation, because the benefits of the first Wadi Hadramawt
Agricultural Project have, as yet, not been fully realized.
6.05     Based on these criteria and the data shown in Annex 4, the basic ERR
of the project is estimated to be 12.2%. The sensitivity analysis shows the
following ERR values for deviations from baseline project performance:
1)  Base Value                             12.2%
2)  Benefits down 20%                       7.9%
3)  Costs up 20%                            8.7%
4)  Benefits :Lagging 1 year               10.0%
5)  Benefits  Lagging 2 years               8.2%
6)  Costs up 20% and benefits
lagging 2 years                      5.4%
In addition, the switching values of key variables have been calculated. For
example, benefits can decrease by about 11% or investment cost can increase by
about 12% before the overall rate of return will become equal to 10%.
C. Other Benefits
6.06     Average annual consumption of fruits and vegetables in PDRY is at 30
kg/head by far the lowest of any country in the Middle East. The projected
incremental output will greatly increase overall availability of fruits and
vegetables and hence significantly improve average diets for the 160,000
people presently living in the Wacli Hadramawt area while still leaving
available surpluses for sale in the coastal areas.
6.07     The establishment of farm machinery units in the cooperatives as
envisaged by the project will much reduce the farmers' dependence on the MRS
while the proposed close associat:ion of farmers and agricultural machinery is
expected to greatly increase the efficiency of the equipment while ensuring
full cost recovery.
6.08     Date palms, though presently quite neglected, constitute an important
agricultural resource of potentiaLly large and varied utility. The proposed
date palm demonstration component of the project is expected to make,
eventually, an important contribution towards revitalizing this part of the
rural economy.
6.09     The project's restructuring of present cost recovery practice and the
substitution of the irrigation imi?rovement tax for the present cumbersome
agricultural taxation system will assist in strengthening the financial
position of the various participating agencies and is expected to result in
better relations between the cooperatives and their members.



- 43 -
b.lU     The establishment of a price and cost analysis unit in MAAR through
financial support of the project will be of vital importance with respect to
determining the right price signals to producers for the assessment of
adequate margins between producer and consumer prices and for the monitoring
of subsidy policies. This unit will be a key element in the process of
further rationalizing PDRY agriculture.
D. Project Risks
6.11     There are no unusual technical risks associated with the project, and
those which are normally associated with the project benefits, costs,
development period and implementation delays have been evaluated in the
sensitivity analysis. Risks which could affect project viability and which
other IDA-assisted projects in PDRY have faced in recent years are:
(i)   insufficient support of project activities by policymaking
institutions;
(ii)   managerial deficiencies of staff in executive positions at
the local level;
(iii)   delays in establishing project unit and in appointing
international specialists; and
(iv)   weakness in the structure of price and subsidy incentives.
With respect to the first two risks, assurances will be sought at negotiations
tnat Government will establish CCSC, continue the Local Advisory Committee,
and seek to appoint adequately trained staff at the local level (paras. 3.24
4.04, 4.06 and 7.01). The third risk will be considerably reduced by
assurances obtained during negotiations that the project unit will be
established promptly and that the key expatriate staff will be appointed as
soon as possible but not later than September 30, 1983, and by the
continuation of staff already employed under the first Hadramawt project and
the PPF (paras. 3.24 and 7.01). The fourth major risk is, to a certain
extent, a reflection of PDRY's economic system. However, there is substantial
scope for the further rationalization of production decisions and incentives
and the proposed prices and subsidies analysis unit in MAAR will be a key
element in minimizing present inefficiencies in the allocation process.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached and assurances obtained
on the principal issues referred to in Chapters III, IV, V and VI. Subject to
the conditions of effectiveness described in paras. 3.24, 3.33, 4.01, 4.16 and
4.19, the Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of Special Drawing Rights
8,300,000 (US$9 million equivalent) to the Government of PDRY on the usual
terms.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 11
Detailed Cost Estimates
% of Foreign    % of Total
Local             Foreign           Total            Local             Foreign         Total             Exchange        Base Costs
----------------YD'000 ---------------               ------------- US$'000 -------------
Irrigation Development
Drilling and well improvement          502.4             2,075.3          2,577.6         1,456.2            6,015.3        7,471.4               80.5
Construction unit                      197.4                296.5           493.9           572.1               859.4       1,431.5               60.0
Land levelling                         219.3                408.4            627.7          635.7            1,183.7        1,819.4               65.1
Conveyance system                    1,027.1                933.5         1,960.6         2,977.2             2,705.7       5,682.9               47.6
Spate, sprinkler drip irri-
gationi, erosion control              219.3                152.3           371.7           635.8               441.5       1,077.2               41.0
Base cost, sub total                  2,165.5              3,866.0         6,031.5         6,277.0           11,205.6       17,482.4               64.1               62.4
agricultural Developnment
Agr. extension/services                113.3                 78.7            192.0          328.4               228.1          556.5              41.0
Orchard cr. (med-term)                  60.8                 15.2             76.0          176.2                44.1          220.3              20.0
Nursery/hort. research                  35.7                 19.2             54.9          103.5                55.6          159.1              35.0
Date palm demonstration                 51.2                 63.2            114.4          148.5               183.1          331.6              55.2
Farm macihinery                         29.8                567.1            597.0           86.5            1,643.8        1,/30.3               95.0
Production cr (short-term)              12.7                 72.1             84.8            36.9              208.9          245.8              85.0 
Base cost, sub total                    303.5                815.5          1,119.1           880.0            2,363.6       3,243.6               72.9               11.6
Project Management
Expatriate staff                        --                  646.6            646.6           --               1,874.2       1,874.2              100.0
Local staff                            262.0                 --              262.0          759.4                --            759.4              --
Equipment/housing                       29.6                143.0            172.6            85.7              414.6         500.3               82.9
Training                                  9.0               101.4            110.4            26.1              293.9.         320.0              91.8
Operating costs                          11.9                47.7             59.7            34.6              138.3          172.9              80.0
Base cost sub total                     312.5                938.7          1,251.3           905.8            2,721.0       3,626.8               75.0               12.9
Studies and Flood Control
Proj Prep Advance (PPF)                 --                  167.0           167.0            --                 484.3         484.3              100.0
Hyrrogeol. monitoring                   --                   13.6             13.6           --                  39.4           39.4             100.0
Proj. prep future project               56.0                224.0            280.0          162.2               649.6         812.0               80.0
Flood control support                  217.5                507.5            725.0          630.6             1,471.8       2,102.5               70.0
Agr price eval. studies                 --                   75.0             75.0           --                 217.5          217.5             100.0
Base cost sub total                     273.5                987.1         1,260.6            792.8            2,862.6       3,653.9               78.3               13.0
Total baseline costs                  3,055.2              6,607.2         9,662.4         8,855.6           19,151.3       28,006.9               68.4              100.0
Physical contingencies                 300.4                628.2            928.6          870.8             1,820.9       2,691.7               67.6                9.6
Price contingencies                    638.3             1,183.0          1,821.3         1,850.2             3,428.9       5,279.1               65.0               18.8
Total Project Costs                   3,993.9              8,418.4        12,412.3        11,576.6            24,401.1      35,977.7               67.8              128.5        -
_/  Descrepaiicies due to rounding.



- 45~ -ANNEX I
TabSe 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Annual Expenditures
(YD' 000)
Year 1              Year 2            Year 3               Year 4                  Year 5                      Total
Local    Foreign    Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign          Local  Foreign         Local   Foreign        Local/Foreign    Foreign
Irrigation Development
Drilling aell components            117.5       484.9    146.3   603.9   123.9   511.3          105.6    436.0           9.4        8.9          2,577.7         2,075.0
nod improve-ent
Physical contingencies              10.1        53.3      14.2    75.0    13.2    69.8          10.9      57.4          1.1        6.1            311.1           261.6
Price costingencies                  5.7        20.9      21.6    79.5    31.0   113.8          36.5    134.0           4.2       15.6            462.8           363.8
Subtotal                           133.3       559.1    182.1   758.4   168.1   694.9          153.0    627.4          14.7       60.6          3,351.6         2,700.4
Construction Unit                     51.0        76.6      40.4    60.7    40.4    60.7          40.4      60.7         25.2       37.7             493.8          296.4
Physical contingencies                3.5         5.0       2.5      3.4     2.5      3.4         2.5       3.4          1.7        2.3              30.2           17.5
Price contingencies                   2.3         3.1       5.4      7.5     9.0    12.6         12.5      17.4         10.0       13.8              93.6           54.4
Subtotal                             56.8        84.7      48.3    71.6    51.9    76.7          55.4      81.5         36.9       53.8             617.6          368.3
Land levelling                        71.5       133.5      82.0   152.8    22.9    42.7          22.9      42.7         19.8       36.8             627.6          408.5
Physical contingencies                4.2        15.7       5.0    18.4       1.4     5.1         1.4       5.1          1.2        4.2              61.7           48.5
Price contingencies                   4.4         4.6      15.2    15.9      7.1      7.4         9.9      10.3         10.8       11.3             96.9            49.5
Subtotal                             80.1       153.8    102.2   187.1    31.4    55.2           34.2      58.1         31.8       52.3             786.2          506.5
C-nveys-ce System                     37.7        34.2    216.8   196.9   363.6   330.3    - 340.3    309.2              69.0       62.6          1.960.6           933.2
Phys-cal contingencies                5.7         5.1      32.5    29.6    54.5    49.6          51.0      46.4         10.4        9.3             294.1          140.0
Price contingencies                   1.7         1.6      30.0    27.3    84.3    76.6         109.4      99.4         28.2       25.7            484.2           230.6
Suhbotal                             45.1        40.9    279.3   253.8   502.4   456.5          500.7    455.0          07.6       97.6          2,738.9         1,303.8
Spate, sprinkler, drip
irrigation and erosion
control                              30.3        21.0      91.8    63.7    67.0    46.6          30.3      21.0         --         --              371.7           152.3
Physical coLtingencies                3.0         2.1       9.2      6.4     6.7      4.7         3.0       2.1         --         --               37.2            15.3
Price contingencies                   1.4         0.9      12.2     8.4    14.9    10.3           9.3       6.5         --                          63.9            26.1
Subtotal                             34.7        24.0    113.2    78.5    88.6    61.6           42.6      29.6         --         --              472.8           193.7
.grccultursl Dev-lopment
Agr. eat. and services                8.5         5.9      31.4    21.8    28.4    19.7          28.0      19.5         17.0       11.8            192.0            78.7
Physical contingencies                0.8         0.6       3.1      2.2     2.8      2.0         2.8       2.0          1.7        1.2             19.2             8.0
Price contingencies                   0.4         0.2       4.6      2.5    10.8      3.8         6.1       5.2          7.3        4.0             44.9            15.7
Subtotal                              9.7         6.7      39.1    26.5    42.0    25.5          36.9      26.7         26.0       17.0            256.1           102.4
Orchard Credit (med. tern)            3.2         0.8       9.6      2.4    16.0      4.0        19.2       4.8          6.4        3.2             69.6            15.2
Input credit (short tens)             1.6         9.1       7.6    14.6      2.9    16.2          2.7      15.1          3.0       16.9             89.7            71.9
Physical contingencies                 0.5         1.0       1.3      1.6     1.9      2.0         2.2       2.0          1.6        2.0             16.1             8.6
Price contingencies                   0.3         0.4       1.7     2.2      4.1      4.5         6.7       6.2          6.2        7.9             40.2            21.2
Subtotal                              5.6        11.3      20.2    20.8    24.9    26.7          30.8      28.1         17.2       30.0            215.6          116.9
Date Rehabilitation                   --          --        49.8    61.3      1.5      1.8        --        --           --         --              114.4            63.1
Nursenien/Rortic. research           12.5         6.7       4.9     2.6      5.7      3.0         6.5       3.5          6.2        3.3             54.9            19.1
Physical contingencies                1.2         0.7       6.3      7.1     0.7      0.5         0.7       0.3          0.7        0.3             18.5             8.9
Price contingencies                   0.6         0.2       7.5     8.4      1.8      0.8         2.5       0.6          3.0        0.7             26.1           10.7
Subtotal                             14.3         7.6      68.5    79.4      9.7      6.1         9.7       4.4          9.9        4.3            213.9           101.8
Pans Machinery                         3.2        60.4       5.6   107.4      9.1   173.2          8.6    163.9           3.3       62.3            597.0           567.2
Physical contingencies                0.3         6.1       0.6    10.7      0.9    17.3          0.9      16.3          0.4        6.2             59.7            56.6
Price contingencies                   0.1         2.7       0.8    14.2      2.0    38.4          2.7      50.3          1.3       24.4            136.9          130.0
Subtotal                              3.6        69.2       7.0   132.3    12.0   228.9          12.2    230.5           5.0       92.9            793.6           753.8
Project Management
Eapatriate staff                     --         131.2      --     167.2    --       185.2        --       106.0         --         57.0            646.6          646.6
Local staff                          43.4        --        60.8    --       69.2    --           58.2      --           30.4       --              262.0           -
Equipment                            17.3        84.1       8.7    41.9      3.5    17.1         --        --           --         --              172.6           143.1
Operating cost                        1.4         5.7       2.4     9.7      2.8    11.4          2.7      11.0          2.5       10.1             59.7            47.9
Traiinig                              0.7         7.5       3.5    39.6      3.7    41.8          1.0      10.6          0.2        1.8            110.4           101.3
Physical contingencies                4.1        16.3       4.8    17.5      4.6    16.3          3.3       7.5          1.8        4.1             80.3            61.7
Price contingencies                   2.9         9.6      10.1    32.8    17.5    54.2          18.3      37.7         12.5       26.0            221.6          160.3
Subtotal                             69.8       254.4      90.3   308.7   101.3   326.0          83.5    172.8          47.4       99.0          1,553.2         1,160.9
Project Preparatios/studies
Proj. prep. advance                  --         167.0      --      --       --       --          --        --           --         --              167.0           167.0
Mydroges. monitoring                 --          --        --      --       --       --          --         9.1         --          4.5             13.6            13.6
Agr. price eval. support             --          25.0      --       25.0    --       25.0        __        __           __         __               75.0            75.0
Flood control support                90.0       210.0    127.5   297.5    --         --          _-        __           __         __              725.0           507.5
Project prep.                        --          --        --      --       28.0   112.0         28.0    112.0          --         --              280.0          224.0
Physical contingencies               --          --        --      --       --       --          --         0.9         --          0.S              1.4             1.4
Price contingencies                   4.2        IS.S      11.7    42.5      7.2    26.1          9.1      32.8         --          1.4            150.5          118.3
Subtotal                             94.2       417.5    139.2   365.0    35.2   163.1           37.1    154.8          --          6.4          1,412.5         1,106.8



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements to end of Semester
Year ana Semester                       IDA       AFESD       KFAED       UNDP
-----(US$ million equivalent)-----
1983-84;  July 30 - Dec 31, 1983                1.0       0.3         0.5       0.1
1983-84;  Jan 1 - June 30, 1984                  2.1      1.2         1.7       0.1
1984-85;  July 1 - Dec 31, 1984                 3.3       2.6         3.1       0.2
1984-85;  Jan 1 - June 30, 1985                 4.4       4.1         4.4       0.2
1985-86;  July 1 - Dec 31, 1985                 5.3       5.7         5.6       0.2
1985-86;  Jan 1 - June 30, 1986                 6.1       7.2         7.0       0.2
1986-87;  July 1 - Dec 31, 1986                 6.7       8.7         8.3       0.2
1986-87;  Jan 1 - June 30, 1987                 7.3      10.4         9.6       0.2
1987-88;  July 1 - Dec 31, 1987                 7.8      10.9        10.0       0.2
1987-88;  Jan 1 - June 30, 1988                 8.3      11.4        10.3       0.2
1988-89;  July 1 - Dec 31, 1988                 8.7      11.8        10.5       0.2
19o8-89;  Jan 1 - June 30, 1989                 9.0      12.0        10.6       0.2



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC RZPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income and Expenditure Flows; Farmers Group, Cropping Pattern I (About 60 ha)
(YD)
Without
Project        1        2         3        4        5        6        7        8        9       10       11       12
Inflow
Gross Value of Production /1          27,334      18,889  31,481   44,074   50,370  56,667  62,963  67,000  71,037  75,074  78,889  83,148  87,185
Government Contribution /2              -        119,854    -          -         -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -
Farmers' Contribution /3                -          1,755    -          -         -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -
Medium-term Credit /4                   -         15,797     -         -         -        -       -        -        -        -        -       _        _
Total Inflow                     27,334    156,295  31,481   44,074   50,370  56,667  62,963  67,000  71,037  75,074               983,148  8
Outflow
Investment                              -        137,871    -          -         -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -
Production Costs /5                    4,370       3,778   6,296    8,814   10,074  11,333  12,592  12,740  12,889  13,037  13,185  13,134  13,630
Irrigation /6                          1,920       1,741   2,902    4,062    4,642   5,223   5,803   5,803   5,803   5,803   5,803   5,803   5,803
Medium-term Loan; Interest              -           -       1,268    1,097        908      705     487      252    -         -        -        -       -
Medium-term Loan; Principal             -           -       2,348    2,519    2,708   2,911   3,129   3,364    -             -        -        -       -
Cooperative Charges /7                 3,815       1,700   2,833    3,960    4,533   5,100   5,667   6,003   6,390   6,750   7,100   7,483   7,847
Government Tax /8                      1,037        -        -        6,000    8,400  10,800  13,200  15,600  18,000  20,400  22800  23,600  24,000
Total Outflow                    11,142    1         1         26,452   31,265  36,072  40,878  43,762  43,082  45,990  48,888  50,020  51,280
Net Inflow (Outflow)                    16,192      11,205  15,834   17,622   19,105  20,595  22,085  23,238  27,955  29,084  30,001  33,128  35,905
/1  Based on Tables in Project File.
/2  All irrigation and land development costs, except for pumps, sprinklers, spate irrigation and erosion control.
/3  Ten percent of investment cost in pumps, farm machinery and orchard establishment.
/4  Ninety percent of investment cost in pumps, farm machinery and orchard establishment.
/5  Based on tables in Project File.
/6  Without Project:  8,000 m3/ha at YD 4/1,000 mi3; With Project:  12,400 m3/ha at YD 7.8/1,000 m3.
77  Without Project:  5% for pumps, 5% cooperative fee, 3% social security, 1% collection charge; With Project:  9% of gross value.
7   Without Project:  10% of gross value of production, except for fodder and straw; With Project:  Gradually increasing from YD 100/ha in
Year 3 to YD 400/ha in Year 12; thereafter constant.
X Z
I-. i



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income and Expenditure Flows; Farmers Group, Cropping Pattern II (About 60 ha)
(YD)
Without
Project       1        2        3         4       5        6       7       8        9       10       11      12
Inflow
Gross Value of Production /1        28,148      23,934  39,889   55,844   63,822  71,800  79,778  82,296  84,815  87,334  89,852  92,370  95,037
Government Contribution /2            -        119,778         -         -        -       -        -           -        -       -        -       -
Farmers' Contribution /3               -         1,705    -         -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Medium-term Credit /4                  -        15,343    -              -        -       -        -           -        -       -        -       -
Total Inflow                   28 148            1     076  33988 g    TThp7  778_            7 T 82,296 G75T  X        87                334
Outflow
Investment                            -        136,826    -         -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Production Costs /5                  4,370       4,521   7,535   10,549   12,056  13,563  15,070  15,185  15,296  15,445  15,556  15,630  15,740          X
Irrigation /6                         1,920      1,741   2,902    4,062    4,642   5,223   5,803   5,803   5,803   5,803   5,803   5,803   5,803
Medium-term Loan; Interest             -          -       1,237    1,066       883     686     474      246    -        -       -        -       -
Medium-term Loan; Principal            -          -      2,276    2,447    2,630   2,827   3,039   3,267    -           -       -        -       -
Cooperative Charges /7                3,940      2,151   3,591    5,022    5,744   6,462   7,182   7,407   7,632   7,857   8,091   8,316   8,550
Government Tax                        1,112       -        -       6,000    8,400  10,800  13,200  15,600  L8,000  20,400  22,800  23,600  24,000
Total Overflow                 11,342    145239- 17 541   29 146   34 355  39,561  44,768  47 508  46 731  49 505  52,250  53,349  54,093
_____________~~~      ~  ~ ~ .__ _L                .L        X                         v___   -J --  2.  .      v_ __   a_ __   __
Net Outflow (Inflow)                   16,806     15,521  22,348   26,698   29,467  32,239  35,010  34,788  38,084  37,829  37,602  39,021  40,944
/1  Based on Tables in Project File.
/2  All irrigation and land development costs, except for pumps, sprinklers, spate irrigation and erosion control.
/3  Ten percent of investment cost in pumps, farm machinery and orchard establishment.
/4  Ninety percent of investment cost in pumps, farm machinery and orchard establishment.
/5  Based on tables in Project File.
/6  Without Project:  8,000 m3/ha at YD 4/1,000 m 3; With Project:  12,400 m3/ha at YD 7.8/1,000 mi3.
77  Without Project:  5% for pumps, 5% cooperative fee, 3% social security, 1% collection charge; With Project:  9% of gross value.
7g  Without Project:  10% of gross value of production, except for fodder and straw; With Project:  Gradually increasing from YD 100/ha in
Year 3 to YD 400/ha in Year 12; thereafter constant.
cr z
(D >e
I.-t,



-49 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Models 1 and 2 (About 60 ha): Rent Recovery Indices/!
Cropping         Cropping
Pattern I       Pattern II
- -- TYD '000) -------
1.  Gross Value of Production                               322              378
2.  Cash Production Costs                                    46               56
3.  Net Income                                              276              322
4.  Depreciation and Return on Own Capital /2                  8              10
5.  Imputed Value of Family Labor                            15               22
o.  Allowance for Management and Risk /3                      25              29
7.  Government Tax                                          113              113
8.  Rent                                                    228              261
Kent Recovery Index                                         50%              43%
/1 All Values in lines 1-8 are incremental NPV at 10% discount rate over 25
years.
/2 Imputed at 10% return on own capital.
/3 Imputed at 10% on net income after depreciation and return of capital.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OP YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAF7AWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Econo..ic Rate of Return Analysis
(YD  O0005
1       2           3        4          5        6          7          8          9       10        11        12         13        14        15       16         17       18          19       20        21-25
A. Incremental Investment
Costs
Irrigation Development        1,116.8  1,659.7  1,668.9  1,509.5   296.6                            -          -         -         -          -         -        -         -          -             -               -
Agricultural Extension            10.2      26.6      30.0       31.6    31.6        -         -          -         -         -                         -         -         -             -                                      11.3        10.0
Orchard Dev-lopeu,t               28.5      32.0      36.9       43.0    36.3        -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -       -          _                                                  _
Farm Machinery                    70.0    124.4    200.5    189.7    72.2            -         -          -       70.0     124.4    200.5      189.        7                              -        700      024.4    200.5
Project Management               262.4    333.8    331.9    214.1   106.2    30.0            10.0         -         -         -         -          -         -         -                  - -       -         -
B.  Incremental Operating
Costs
Irrigation, 06M                    31.1      62.1      93.2    124.3   155.3   165.6    176.0    186.4    196.7    207.1    207.1    207.1    207.1    207.1    207.1    207.1    207.1    207.1    207.1    207.1    207.1
Annual Crops                        -        89.0    133.0    178.0   223.0   267.0    312.0    356.0    400.0    445.0    445.0    445.0    445.0    445.0   445.0    445.0    445.0    445.0    445.0    445.0    445.0
Perennial Crops                     -         -         -          -        -        7.0      13.8       26.8      40.1      53.5      66.9       80.3      93.7    107.0    120.4    133.8    133.8    133.8    133.8            133.8    133.8
Agricultural Extension              -         -          -         -        -       31.5      31.5       31.5      31.5      31.5       31.5      31.5      31.5      31.5      31.5      31.5      31.5       31.5      31.5      31.5       31.5
C. Incremental Gross Value
Aonnal Crops                        -       279.3    558.6    651.7   931.0 1,117.2  1,303.4  1,582.7  1,768.9  1,862.0  1,862.0  1,862.0  1,862.0  1,862.0 1,862.0  1,862.0  1,862.0  1,862.0  1,862.0  1,862.0  2,8 62.0
Perennial Crops                     _                              _                 -        71.1    142.2    213.3    284.4    355.5    426.6    497.7    568.8   639.9    711.0    711.0    711.0    711.0    711.0                      711.0
Salvage Values                      -         -         -          -       70.0    75.0        -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -        -          -                                          
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) - 12.2%



- 51 -                      ANNEX 5
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expatriate Staff Requirements
1       2        3        4       5      Total
--------------- (man-yeas) ----------------
Project Management
Project Manager /1                   1       1        1        1        -        4
Senior Irrig. Engineer /L /2         1       1        1        1        1        5
Office Engineer /2                   1       1        1        1        1        5
Civil Engineer                       2       2        2        -        -        6
Senior Surveyor /2                   1       1        1        -       -         3
Surveyor /2                          1       1        1        -       -         3
Drattsman                            3       3        3        -        -        9
Horticulturist                       1       1        1        -        -        3
Irrigation Extensionist              -       -        1        1       1         3
Cooperative Training
bpecialist                        -        1        1        -       -         2
Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation bpecialist             -        1        1        1       -         3
Consultants                          -       0.3      0.4      0.5     0.2       1.4
Subtotal                                                                   47.4
Construction Unit
Irrigation Engineer                  2       2        2        2       1         9
Surveyor                             2       2        2        2       1         9
Draftsman                            2       2        2        2        1        9
Subtotal                                                                   27
Drilling Unit /3
Hydrogeologist
Jriliing Superintendent              1       1        1        1                 4
Master Driller                       1       1        1        1       -         4
Master Mecnanic                      0.5      1       1        1        -        3.5
Short-term Consultant                0.1     0.2      0.2      0.1     -         0.6
bubtotal                                                                   12.1
Agricultural Economic Analysis
Agricultural Economist               1        1       1        -        -        3
Project Preparation /4
Agricultural Economist and
Team Leader                  )
Hydrogeologist                 )    -        -        3        3       -         6
Irrigationi Engineer
Agronomist
Surveyors and Draftsman
/1  The Project Manager will be internationally recruited in case of
nonavailability of national; all other expatriate Project Management staff
except tne Senior Irrigation Engineer (Head of Execution Unit) will be
regionally recruited.
/2 Already on post under PPF and WHPI financing.
/3 Expatriate staff to be provided through management contract.
/4 To be contracted.



- 52 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports
1.   PDRY, Agricultural Sector Mermorandum September 1982 Report No.
4006-YDR, (Green Cover).
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
2.   Appraisal of Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project, PDRY, January 1976,
Report No. 847a-YDR.
3.   PDRY.  Report of Wadi Hadramawt II Agricultural Project Preparation
Mission. FAQ/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Report No. 8182
February 12, 1982, PDRY 16.
4.   PDRY.  Second Agricultural Project for Wadi Hadramawt Proposals for
development. Working paper, FAO/CP, May 1980.
5.   PDRY, MAAR, Wadi Hadramawt Feasibility Study (SOGREAH Consulting
Engineers).
(a) Part A.
Water Resources, Land Use and Land Classification Interim Report No.
320421R6, April 1979. Main Report Maps 320421 R6C, April 1979-1980.
Appendices 1-6; Surface Water Study; 7-13: Groundwater Study;
Survey of Sills Study.,
(b) Part B Report.
Irrigation and Agricultural Development Strategies, November 1980
Draft Report. No. 320421R7. Summary and conclusions. Appendix 1
Semi-detailed Soil Survey Text, Maps; 2 Socio-economy; 3 Agronomy; 4
Irrigation; 5 River training problems; 6 Financial and economic
evaluation.
(c) Development Strategies and Project Preparation
Inception Report and Maps No. 320721R1 March 1981. Draft Final
Report No. 320721R2 October 1981.



ANNEX 6
- 53 -                            Page 2
Final Report No. 320721R3 December 1981.
Summary and Overview of Project Preparation. Specific Study Report:
1 Hydrogeology; 2 Soil Survey and Land Classification; 3
Socio-Economy; 4 Agronomy and water requirements; 5 Ground water and
spate irrigation development; 6 River training proL<ems and civil
engineering, text, maps.
6(a) Al Qatn Agricultural Cooperative, Balance Sheet and Profit/Loss
Acct., December 31, 1980;
6(b) Seyium Agricultural Cooperative, Balance Sheet and Profit/Loss
Account, December 31, 1980;
6(c) Tarim Agricultural Cooperative Balance Sheet and Profit/Loss Account,
December 31, 1980.
7.   Basic provisions for water and land resource utilization scheme.
(Hydrogeological, irrigation, land use study and development
proposals) USSR, Yemeni Project, 1981.
8.   Pallas, D. Comparative Analysis of water resource surveys performed
by SOGREAH and Soviet-Yemeni Project. FAO/Rome February 1982
(Hydrogeology Consultant Report).
9.   Pallas, P. Comments on Groundwater Development Programme Planned in
WAdi Hadramawt Valley, FAO, Rome, July 1981 (Hydrogeology Consultant
Report).
10.  PDRY-MAAR and FAO, IDA-supported Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project;
Farm Mgt. Report No. 1  Cutting survey of selected crops June 1982
Farm Mgt. Report No. 2 Economics of date production July 1982
Farm Mgt. Report No. 3 Economics of wheat production July 1982
Farm Mgt. Report No. 4 Economics of sorghum production July 1982
Farm Mgt. Report No. 5 Economics of alfalfa production July 1982
Farm Mgt. Report No. 6 Economics of onion production July 1982
Farm Mgt. Report No. 7 Economics of potato production July 1982
Farm Mgt. Report No. 8 Economics of date pkg plant Seiyun Aug. '82
Farm Mgt. Report No. 9 Preliminary investigation in the economics
of Wadi Hadramawt Project
Terminal Report                   August 1982
(Reports by Farm Management Consultant, Abel Hamid Saad, national staff of
Seiyun Age Research Center and Statistics Division, June - August 1982.)
C. Selected Working Papers and Tables for Project Implementation
1. Financial Analysis
a.    land use, yields and production, cropping pattern I and II
b.    physical input coefficients
c.    main inputs:  financial and economic costs
d.    financial production costs per hectare.



ANNEX 6
54 -                          Page 3
2. Economic Analysis
a.    crop prices, areaLs, yield, production and value production
b.    economic production cost per hectare
3. Irrigation
a.    back-up tables for water requirements (well requirements per half
monthly periods, based on Blaney-Criddle method and FAO irrigation
and drainage paper, No. 24);
b.    appraisal mission review of irrigation water requirements and
irrigation design (typical case);
c.    estimated present and future water balance;
d.    hydrogeology;
e.    appraisal mission's design modifications
4. Credit
a.    medium-term credit requirements;
b.    orchard establishment cost and credit requirements.
5. Detailed Cost Tables
Irrigation Development
a. construction unit
b. drilling, well improvement and well components
c. land levelling
d. conveyance system
e. spate, sprinkler, drip irrigation, erosion control.
Agricultural Development
f. agricultural extension
g. credit, inputs (short-term)
h. credit orchards (medium-term)
i. nursery and horitcu:Ltural research
j. date rehabilitation demonstration
k. farmr machinery
Project Management
1. expatriate staff
m. local staff
n. equipment
o. operations
p. training
q. Project preparation, flood control and studies



ANNEX 6
- 55                          Page 4
6. Basic cost calculations
a.    land leveling costs
b.    operating costs of pumps
c.    equipment operating costs
d.    cost of irrigation conveyance and distribution network
e.    well drilling unit cost
f.    financial and economic prices of materials
g.    cost estimate for repair of sills
7. Project financing
a.    financing requirements for force account works, local contracts and
operations;
b.    estimated schedule of expenditures (per category and financing
source).
d. Project preparation and studies (consultants Terms of Reference)
a.    flood control and erosion protection in major wadis;
b.    possible future agricultural development project
c.    Agricultural Economic Analysis Support
9. Job descriptions, key expatriate staff
a.    Well drilling and improvement (available)
(i) drilling superintendent
(ii) master driller
(iii) master mechanic
(iv) field hydrogeologist
b.    Engineering (available)
(i) senior irrigation engineer
( ii) chief surveyor
(iii) office engineer
(iv) civil engineer (design)
(v) civil engineer (construction)
c.    Project Management (under preparation)
(i) technical coordinator
(ii) planning monitoring and evaluation specialist
(A.    Horticulture, extension and training
(i) horticulturist
(ii) irrigation extensionist
(iii) training specialist for cooperatives
10.       Reporting requirements (to be prepared)



ORGANIZATION CHART
Governor and
Sub-governor
Agriculture                         ~~~~Hadramams
|   eat0f|      |DPn            eat  f|                   |Dpr.o   Depart. of   
- I -  Research and                   |       Irrigation    Pan                     Co o                  State Farms            |-  --  - -
I                                                     !L 7        ,;gr-l Planrning ie
I                 l      I                                   l                                             ,     ~      ~~~~~~ I   m
,~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ,M Il 
PDC
MRS           -s  |
I                                           r               _> ,r~~~PAC  --------#--~                -lI    eta
I                          ~~~~~~ ~           ~~~PCMFV                                                                                                         IralI
I              ~~~~~C.
| l l l l _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I-                                                                                          Auditing
PWC                                                                         P rovi-vii                 I                      Bad
NCHT                                                  -                     and Regional I
PCEP                                                                       Di, of Agric. *                            I
l                                l                       | ~~~~~~~~~~                                                  ~          ~~Local |I      Bac 
l                   r------ _-i                                          Advisory        I 
f  M            f                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               ~          ~~~~Commttitgee    I     
r                   - -    - -    _   L~~~~ -   -    -   -    -    -    -    -   -   _-                                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _ I  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _ _
f   I        l                                                                                                                                 l                         l                    l~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Sniyun   ~F,rui                      Region~al       MS            NC            Project M.ananr              RegionalStg
Research     Tre      Etnin           Dept. of                                                              Coperative
Center    NuseyIrigto1Det
Horticultural            A     .r.                                                   Project Evecution Unit                                                  Planning                        t .
I-   and Extension               and Finance                                   Irrigation Construction                                                             Monitormg                  Training
Support                                                                                                                Diln&WllEvaluation
Flood Control &    Sprinkler &   |rrigation Conveyance  Design   Improvement
Spate Irrigation   Drip Irrigatinn    & Land Levelling
.-- -- --|-                             Al Darn Cooperative                                 Shibarm Coop-rtive                  Seiyun Cooperative         |Tarirm Cooperative
f    ]                      ~~~~~~~~~Sectors, Area in H..t.res             |     Sectors, Area in Hectares     |     Sectors, Area in Hectares    |Sectors, Area in Hectares                        
Al Batna    Al Hadia   Zukikah        Alt      Hoeila    Ghara        Al Hauta     Garat |t     ooga     Madudah    Tarba I    Tarbo I        Suwairy  Dammun         Tarim      Mishta   AlIGhariych
300        300           00        325         125         15         100         250         35          150         100         120        450         100         200         125         50
r------|                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Far. Unitsj
-------|                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Working Groups and Individual Farm-ern
Operational Control                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank-25151
- - - - - -- Administrative/Technical Coordination



CROP CALENDAR
AGRICULTURAL YEAR
OCT.    NOV       DEC       JAN      FEB.    MAR.   APR.    MAY    JUNE    JULY    AUG.   SEPT.
Wheat, HYV
Wheat, Local                                                               .
Sorghum, Summer                                                        __                              _sss  sssss            1
Sorghum, Winter                                 _                                                                                     -
Sesame                                                                                                                                                          I
Tomatoes                     sssss       =         ==s                                                                                    sn
Potatoes
Onions (Winter)              s m   
Summer Vegetables                  _                                                                   _
Alfalfa
Date Palms
Fruit Trees (Citrus)
Iiiisili= Ratoon sorghum, or nursery stage for onions and tomatoes                                                        World Bank-25152



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IDA FISCAL YEAR                                 1st               2nd                3rd               4th                5th
CALENDAR YEAR                        1983               1984               1985              1986               1987               1988
AGRICULTURAL YEAR                                      1st                2nd               3rd                4th         [      5th
Staff Housing Construction                  EIEig EilEguEE                                 I           I                               _ 1
Drilling, Existing Equipment                   _      __
Drilling, New Equipment                   3 131                                - i   i -          m   -          --
Well Components, Existing and New Weiis   3tt31 IIiI aI I I  a                             ijj  - I       _         _ _
Deepening of Shallow Wells
Land Levelling, Existing Equiprment             j    1      -      1              i   i   1
Land Leveiiing, New Equipment              3                -                                                                             I
Construction of Irrig. Conveyance System      III =    u   -     -        -    -   -r 
Sprinkler and Drip Irrig. Constr.             all mill                                                                                                   |
Spate Irrig. Improvement                                I        t
Erosion Control Works                                    i  -             -    -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -
Date Rehabilitation Demonstration                      i     i            - I
Nursery Expansion                                                         -                  - _--
Orchard and Production Credit
Farm Machinery Procurement              iII           1 I     1111    11 III          1 I1 I   H              1       l  E     l
Farmers and Extension Training
Price Evaluation Support                                    -   -   -   - |         -   -
Flood Control Support                                   -   -   -         -    -
Future Project Feasibility Study                                                                       - -   -   -    -   -    -
HRydrogeological Monitorinig                            -                                    -
Progress Reports
Completion Report                                                                                                              m   -   -   -   m    -
i3llllhllEl Procurement                                                                                                            World Bank-24153
Construction or execution



_                        ,_   rivsmmffm ImnmepmmdbrSm                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~48 ADI                                                        'l9-00                                       __     AUGU ST I 82
\OMAN                       o
SAUDI  ARABIA
s      /\~~~~~~~~1 AL-AHRA \                udm;dls/At  nvK.1-m1-s 0                                   5           10          IS           20                                                                                        t1 , ?           > r
j     ) HAD RAMWT                                                                                                                                                                                                  AL GHARYEH
YEMEN  ARAB        .           R     Y.-       .E MENfD.MAOO                                                                                                                                                                                    .    -     7
REPUBLIC        /                   \                                                                                                                                                                                        h                         -,
BS,h'rX,,h'5A,,O \\S Al Mll
c     4SoAcWAoQ A 1ta        <hl Aa arli/ rK                                                                                                                                                                  N                                         l0i O'twiw-</i 
SOiokan,a,1 A00 ha ZD,  r          <              /    t          V         )                               ;                                                                                                PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOFhYEMEN
HOWEL   '                                     AL AUA                       A    - \S   I                                      =a.
l6-AA   \              -                                 N0uA/ 
15 my   W~~~a/ nOEA   mOG~                                                W'
'0 h.                                   110 1        ,20 h             I       a                                       S
_-A   M  A           S  r_                                                                                                                                                                   , .IA
C                                             A                       A  AOrH A -L )                \
iGKhoaH\                                                                                                                                                                                  /                   PEOPLES DEMORATIO E    REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
/               ~~SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT
/           ~~AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAHRA`N                                                                                                                                                   P,.i.ct i"ig.t-  -r- (-I- t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rletiriatAnsclr (o t cae
m   Sta,, Iame (not to -cal)
AgnicAItAtal -aaperati- boAndariet
Maim apri-AtAtaI.areas               15'40 
Power system, (partlyoprtna:
33 IAV ttanm-i-n lines
r.AIM k /X                          -     II kV trnmsinline
0/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Asphalt toads
-A  M~~~~~~~~Irhad                                                                                                                                                ---Main  tracks and cobbled roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     Mm  -k -   .bbI,d-.d
2   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~---Cobbled roads constr.octed ceder WHPI
-                                                                                                                                  AA~~~OO   *- Frovinoi?lboAMLi4ndo4r'4ie.0



