Document of                        F    CP
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-34 94-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$9.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
SECOND WADI EADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 21, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982           March, 1983.
Currency Unit        =                  Yemeni Dinars (YD)           YD
US$1                            YD 0.345                 0.345
YD1       =                      US$2.90                  2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31                (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31             (1975)
January 1 to December 31           (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFESD     =     Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
CCSC      =     Central Coordinating and Steering Committee
DIME            Department of Irrigation and Mechanical Engineering
FAO       =     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP    =     FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
HPOII     =     Hadramawt Project Organization II
ICB       =     International Competitive Bidding
IDA       =     International Development Association
KFAED     =     Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LAC       =     Local Advisory Committee
LCB       =     Local Competitive Bidding
LIT       =     Limited International Tendering
MAAR      =     Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MRS       =     Machinery Renting Station
NBY       =     National Bank of Yemen
PASC      =     Public Agricultural Services Corporation
PCMFV     =     Public Corporation for Marketing of Fruit and Vegetables
PDC       =     Public Drilling Corporation
PDRY      =     People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PPF       =     Project Preparation Facility
PVC       =     Polyvinyl chloride
UNDP      =     United Nations Development Programme
USBR      =     United States Bureau of Reclamation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Amount          SDRs 8.3 million (about US$9.0 million equivalent)
Terms           Standard
Project
Description:   The project would increase agricultural production and farm
income on about 3,225 ha of principally well irrigated lands in
the Wadi Hadramawt subgovernorate by intensifying the
groundwater irrigation system in the project area within the
Wadi Hadramawt and by providing technical assistance, farmer
and technician training, farm inputs and agricultural equipment
and research for the project area. It would also include the
rehabilitation and improvement of the spate irrigation network,
demonstration of date palm rehabilitation and overhead
irrigation systems, feasibility studies for a possible
follow-up project, and flood and erosion control studies for
all major agricultural valleys in PDRY.
The project would benefit directly 925 families. In addition,
200,000 persons would benefit indirectly from the project
through the increased availability of foodstuffs. The
principal risks of not achieving the project's objectives are
those relating to institutional and management support and to
farmer response. The project has been designed to minimize
these risks. The Government would strengthen the mechanisms
for institutional support to the project and a strong
management component has been built into the project for the
five-year implementation period. The Government is also taking
measures within the context of the project to improve farmers'
incentives, to improve the availability of input supplies and
output marketing, and to establish a new farm production unit
which could operate pumpsets and farm machinery under long-term
leases. Most of these measures were agreed between the
Government and IDA during discussions on the agricultural
prices, taxes and subsidies study completed by consultants and
financed under the Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project
(768-YDR).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost I!                               Local        Foreign          Total
____------- US  million-----------
Irrigation Development                           6.3          11.2             17.5
Agricultural Extension                           0.4            0.4             0.8
Orchard Development                              0.4            0.3             0.7
Farm Machinery                                   0.1            1.7             1.8
Project Management                               0.9            2.7             3.6
Project Preparation and Studies 2/               0.7            2.9             3.6
Base Cost                                        8.8           19.2            28.0
Physical Contingencies                           0.9            1.8             2.7
Price Contingencies                              1.8            3.5             5.3
Total Project Cost                         11.5          24.5            36.0
1/   Not including duties and taxes from which the project is exempt.
2/   Including $500,000 for repayment of Project Preparation Facility advance.
Financing Plan:                                   Local       Foreign         Total
---------US$ million---------
Government                                    3.9           0.0           3.9
Project Beneficiaries                         0.3           0.0           0.3
IDA                                           2.3           6.7           9.0
Kuwait Fund                                   2.0           8.6          10.6
Arab Fund                                     3.0           9.0          12.0
UNDP                                          0.0           0.2            0.2
Total                                   11.5           24.5          36.0
Estimated IDA                     FY84    FY85       FY86    FY87      FY88    FY89
Disbursements:
Annual                       2.1      2.3       1.7      1.2       1.0       0.7
Cumulative                   2.1      4.4       6.1      7.3       8.3       9.0
Estimated Completion Date:          June 30, 1988
Rate of Return:                     About 12 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:             No. 4127 YDR of March 24, 1983



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR THE SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDRs 8.3 million (about $9.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to help
finance a Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Credit. The
Government has completed negotiations with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development and is discussing with the Arab Fund for Social and Economic
Development and with the United Nations Development Programme the provision of
up to about $23 million equivalent under joint and parallel financing
arrangements to help finance the cost of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen:
Economic Memorandum" (3570-YDR) dated January 29, 1982, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 10, 1982. A country data sheet is attached as
Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Situated in the southwestern corner of the Arabian Peninsula, the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) with a population of 1.9 million
(mid-1981) covers an area of 333,000 square km and extends nearly 1,400 km
along the Gulf of Aden. It is a semi-arid land of rugged configuration with
sparse vegetation, low rainfall and few natural resources. Agricultural
production is limited to some 12 scattered wadis comprising the total
cultivable area of about 200,000 ha or less than 1 percent of the country's
land surface. The one major resource is fish, which are not yet fully
exploited. The majority of the population lives on the narrow coastal plain
along the Gulf. There is also a concentration of population in the Wadi
Hadramawt, a large fertile valley in the centre of the country. The rest of
the population, of which 10 percent is bedouin live in small scattered
communities. There are also an estimated 200,000 Yemenis working outside
PDRY. Except for the oil refinery at Little Aden, there is little industrial
activity in the country. The country is still at a low level of development,
its institutions are relatively weak and its per capita income was $420 in
1980.
Development Objectives and Constraints
4.       Prior to independence in 1967, the economy was mainly centered around
Aden and depended heavily on services provided by the port of Aden and



- 2 -
budgetary support from the British. Following independence the Government has
sought to diversify the economy and carry economic development to all parts of
the country. Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently
pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context of a planned
economic system. The principal objectives of the Government have been: (a)
to satisfy the basic needs of the population for food, essential consumer
goods, shelter, employment, health care and other social services; (b) to
develop the production capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture,
fisheries, manufacturing, construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the
infrastructure sectors, i.e., transport, power and telecommunications; (d) to
raise education standards, emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e)
to increase exports of domestic products.
5.       In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily on
a strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms were
initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which brought
the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking,
insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent investment
in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities. Two agrarian
reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
farm organizations--state farms and cooperatives--were created to facilitate
the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques. Fishing
and consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two of the
remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refinery (British Petroleum)
and an international communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--were
transferred by mutual consent to the Government of PDRY.
6.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government,
and was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives.
But the private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have re-
gained some strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to account
for almost half of the nation's gross output of goods and services (excluding
government services). Private activity can be found in almost every sector
and is strongly represented in agriculture, construction, trade and
transport. The volume of private investment--mainly in housing--has risen
sharply since the mid-1970s, partly at the expense of public investment.
Cooperation between public and private capital is encouraged in some areas,
such as light industries, and a limited number of joint ventures are now
active. Foreign private investors have been invited to participate in oil
exploration and the fishing industry. A new Investment Promotion Law has
recently been promulgated providing incentives to private investors and
encouraging foreign investment in other sectors such as tourism and
construction. The response has been good from both Yemeni nationals returning
from abroad and private foreign investors but unfortunately the Government is
not yet in a position to offer significant assistance by way of feasibility
studies or suitable projects.
7.       Since the early 1970's the country has made significant progress in
a number of areas. Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential consumer
goods were increased largely through higher imports. School enrollment



- 3 -
rose sharply, adult literacy programs were introduced, and health services
improved. The transport network was strengthened, new power stations built,
and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries and manufacturing
expanded. Substantial investments were made in mineral exploration while
more recently, there was an upsurge in private house construction. Rising
investments led to a rapid expansion of the local construction industry.
Overall economic expansion together with net emigration abroad not only
eliminated open unemployment but created some labor shortages.
8.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and
by a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see para.
19). Exports on the other hand displayed little dynamism reflecting in large
part the low levels of capacity utilization especially in agriculture and
fisheries. Notwithstanding large investments in these sectors, agricultural
and fish production have stagnated in the last 5-6 years. However, since an
increasing amount of product can be sold in the free market, the official
output statistics may increasingly understate the level of production and thus
the performance of the agriculture and fisheries sectors.
9.       The Second Five-Year Plan continues to pursue the overall development
objectives outlined in para. 4 above. The Plan was originally envisaged to
cover the 1979-83 period. However, following a recommendation by the Council
on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries to synchronize their five-year
development plans, the Second Five-Year Plan commenced in 1981. The Plan
proposes a total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980 prices) for 1981-85
of which 19 percent is to be spent for energy, 17 percent for agriculture
and fishing, 6 percent for manufacturing, 18 percent for transport and
communications, 8 percent for education and health and 18 percent for
housing. The Plan assumes that about $1.06 billion (72 percent) will be
financed through foreign capital, of which approximately $400 million had
already been committed at the beginning of the plan period. The production
targets are ambitious. They call for an overall rate of growth of 10 percent
per annum with sectoral growth targets of 13 percent for industry, 9 percent
for agriculture and 16 percent for fisheries, and 9 percent for transport and
communications. Production growth is to be achieved not only through new
investments but also through improved utilization of existing capacities. The
plan, which is currently in its third year of implementation, achieved very
high implementation ratios during the first two years i.e., in 1981 about 80
percent and in 1982 about 90 percent of annual investment targets.
Implementation ratios were about 90 percent in industry, agriculture and
fisheries and 80 percent in social services. Nearly 60 percent of development
expenditure was financed through foreign sources and the rest from domestic
sources.
10.      In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of
constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
shortages of manpower, especially in the construction sector, insufficient
technical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh
climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, although sub-
stantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher
yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The
narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for



- 4 -
industrial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged
topography which creates severe difficulties for internal transportation
resulting in increased domestic transport cost.
11.      The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately
trained manpower with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance,
including assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY.
In addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education
and training program was launched and in recent years has become increasingly
technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher education abroad
and the establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY, the country
is now generating an increasing flow of technically trained people who could
gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower. Shortages of unskilled
labor exist mainly in the construction sector and could be eased through
joint ventures with foreign contractors.
12.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of
the principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages
of trained manpower the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems including low Government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisheries, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor maintenance.
These constraints are often compounded by excessive state control which causes
distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these deep-seated
problems are in sight although the Government has recently started to pursue
a more flexible price policy to provide incentives for farmers and fishermen.
For example, state procurement prices for most agricultural crops and fish
have been substantially increased accompanied by measures permitting farmers
and fishermen, both as individuals and in cooperatives to sell a large portion
of their output on the free market at prices substantially above state
procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
13.      The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $57 million in 1974/75 to $166 million in 1977. In 1978,
however, public investment started to decline in real terms and in 1979, it
was some 20 percent lower than in 1977. The principal reason for this decline
was a growing shortage of construction workers many of whom preferred to work
in the private sector where much higher wages are being paid. In 1981
development expenditures increased substantially to $305 million reflecting
the special efforts of the Government to complete ongoing projects. Current
government expenditures for education, health and more recently defense,
continued to grow through 1981 both in nominal and real terms.
14.      During the past decade, high levels of public spending have accel-
erated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices is estimated
to have grown at an annual average rate of about 6 percent during 1974-80,
compared with only 2 percent per annum during 1970-73. The major growth
sectors were government services, construction, manufacturing and transport.
Agricultural output and fish production apparently stagnated. To some extent



-5-
the disappointing performance of agriculture and fisheries was the result of
labor migration from these sectors to higher paid jobs within the country
(i.e. construction) or abroad. But it also reflects the factors referred to
above (see para. 12).
15.      Tentative estimates for 1981 show an increase in real GDP of abcut
6-8 percent. Agriculture production grew for the first time since 1975 by
about 5 percent while construction grew by about 20 percent. Industrial
production on the other hand slowed down in 1981 due to technical problems,
congestion in the port of Aden, and low capacity utilization of the oil
refinery. Fish production appears to have declined in 1981. Even though key
economic indicators for 1982 are not completely available, economic growth
appears to have slowed down in that year. The floods of March 1982 inflicted
severe damage to the agricultural sector causing crop losses both for domestic
consumption and exports. Similarly, industrial output is expected to show
only a small increase due to shortage of raw materials.
16.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending, the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With a low per
capita income, there were severe limitations on raising domestic resources.
The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic funds was taxation.
New taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. In addition,
profits of public enterprises have been rising. As a result, total public
sector income rose from $68 million in 1974/75 to $362 million in 1981. This
still left a large overall deficit in the public sector amounting to $342
million in 1981.
17.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including IDA.   Total foreign aid inflows rose from $66
million in 1974 to $131 million in 1978. In 1979 disbursements dropped
to $87 million due in part to the decline in public investments. However,
foreign aid inflows once again rose sharply in 1980 ($169 million) and again
in 1981 ($319 million).
18.      The overall expansion of economic activity, especially the growth
in investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. Total
imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to $763 million in 1981. Most of the
increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude oil and
foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth of the
nominal value. About 30 percent of imports represented food and beverages, 22
percent crude oil and petroleum products, and 20 percent machinery and
equipment. Rising import prices intensified inflationary pressures within
PDRY; these pressures were reinforced by substantial increases in wage levels
especially in the private construction sector, and by growing domestic bank
financing of public sector expenditures.
19.      Exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover only a
minor share of the import bill. In 1981, they were estimated to be about $28
million or some 4 percent of commodity imports. Much more important



- 6 -
than commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by
labor income and private transfers. The latter have risen rapidly since the
mid-1970s, increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $415 million in 1981.
This has been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to
additional emigration, and to new incentives which liberalized "owm exchange"
imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings, and offered higher
interest rates to non-resident bank depositors. Fast growing exchange
earnings and increasing disbursements from foreign aid have enabled PDRY in
recent years to cover its import requirements and to strengthen its foreign
reserves.  The latter rose from $67 million at end 1974 to $255 million at end
1981, equivalent to about 4 months of imports.
20.      Preliminary balance of payments estimates, for 1982 indicate a
further increase in the current account deficit. The principal factors
responsible for this trend were (1) growing imports due to the floods of 1982
and the intensification of the development effort, and (2) a slow down in
workers' remittances following levelling off in wages and reduced construction
activities in the oil rich labor importing countries. Moreover, disbursements
of official loans and grants declined sharply forcing the country to draw on
its reserves. Remittances could slow further as they did in YAR while debt
service payments are expected to increase sharply in the coming years.
Impact of Flood Damages
21.      In late March 1982, unusual floods caused extensive economic damage
in PDRY. Heavy rains fell continuously for about three days damaging arable
land, infrastructure and buildings throughout most of the country. In many
places, the rainfall exceeded 10 inches during the three day period and water
descended from the mountain slopes surrounding the area and swept away
villages causing substantial losses to agricultural areas and crops,
livestock, roads and bridges and equipment. The most seriously affected areas
are in Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah Governorates. Wadis in Lahej and Abyan
Governorates were seriously affected due to erosion of the wadi banks thus
washing away large tracts of agricultural lands and residential property.
Along the wadis, most feeder and on-farm roads have also been washed away.
Hence, much of PDRY's limited spate irrigated infrastructure is now in need of
rehabilitation, repair and probably in need of basic redesign and
reconstruction. The Zinjibar bridge in the Abyan Governorate has been totally
destroyed as have numerous sections of the main Aden Al Mukalla coastal road
linking the capital to other governorates and the branch to Wadi Ahwar in
Abyan Governorate. Thus, the disaster was reputedly the largest in recent
history. Official estimates list 500 people dead, 25,000 houses destroyed and
50,000 head of livestock lost with physical damage of between $250 million and
$500 million in total cost.
22.      Preliminary surveys on the overall impact of the floods on the
economy indicate that a substantial portion of the seasonal crops viz cotton,
cereals, fruits and vegetables have been destroyed and prospects for
resumption of such crops in the affected areas in the near future are
uncertain. It would take up to 2 to 3 years before production could be
resumed. Similarly, the damage to highways and bridges is quite extensive and
although emergency works have already been completed, it will take about two
years to complete full reconstruction and rehabilitation. The Government has
already begun rehabilitation, repair and reconstruction works to avoid further



- 7 -
damage to wadi beds and agricultural land during the rest of flood season (up
to October, 1982).  It has begun to place orders for imports of machinery and
equipment as well as building materials with assistance from multilateral and
bilateral donors.
23.      The damage to agricultural crops had a serious impact on the domestic
food supply and exports.  Apart from the export losses, the economy has to
bear additional costs in the immediate period arising out of the necessity to
import substantial amounts of foodstuffs to replace lost agricultural output
and essential materials, machinery and spare parts to repair flood damaged
infrastructure.  Hence, the additional balance of payments burden caused by
the floods during 1982 is tentatively estimated at between US$55-60 million.
The impact on the 1982 budget is expected to be substantial ranging up to YD
20 million or about 10 percent of total expenditures.  Emergency repair and
reconstruction work is underway with the assistance from multilateral agencies
and donor countries. PDRY has already received emergency assistance of $16.8
million from the International Monetary Fund and $7 million from IDA for flood
recovery program. In addition, emergency assistance of about $6 million from
UN agencies and some external assistance in the form of project loans have
been provided. These cash and in-kind grants have so far been for relief
purposes and their magnitude is small.  The need to import additional food,
construction materials and capital equipment to replace losses will no doubt
have a negative impact on PDRY's balance of payments in the medium term.
Hence, PDRY requires an increased flow of material and financial assistance
from the international community.
External Debt
24.      The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end 1981
amounted to $1,404 million, of which $651 million was disbursed. Bilateral
sources accounted for $1,009 million or 72 percent of total commitments with
the USSR providing the bulk ($591 million), followed by China ($149 million),
other Eastern European countries ($158 million), and Arab countries ($lll
million). Multilateral flows amounted to $395 million including $252 million
from Arab Funds, $111 million from IDA and $32 million from IMF. The terms of
all loans are highly concessionary.  In addition, PDRY has received *398
million in grant assistance during 1974/81, mostly from Arab countries.
25.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1981 were $11
million or 3.4 percent of total foreign exchange earnings from exports of
goods and services. However, PDRY's debt service obligations have started
to rise and are projected to increase further in future years. This will
exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. Therefore, in view of
the country's low income level and low level of development, the Bank's
assistance to PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms. For the same reason,
local cost financing by IDA is justified.
26.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (see para. 5). This law
provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing



interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of
all the nationalized companies were to be used for servicing the bonds. In
response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substantial.
Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after the
promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of
accountants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the national-
ized companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was submitted to
the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached soon after with
three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were finalized with three
additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in late 1977, early 1978,
and in 1979, with a development finance company in mid-1978, and with a bank
in 1980. Dialogue with the one remaining claimant company of which IDA is
aware has however been very slow since there is still no agreement on a basis
on which to settle this claim. The Government professes its desire to reach
mutually acceptable settlements with all claimant companies.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
27.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. This will be
continued. IDA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the
key fisheries subsector, education, water supply and sewerage, petroleum
exploration and power. In addition, new sectors being examined are industry
and health. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to
be an integral feature of IDA projects in PDRY.
28.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member
of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about two
years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for
this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in
1978. To date, IDA has had 22 operations in PDRY 2/, for a total commitment
of $134.7 million. Of this total, $39.8 million has assisted the transport
sector, $41.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector, $21.5 million the
power and energy sector, $15.4 million the education sector, and $16.7 million
the water supply sub-sector. Project implementation in PDRY has suffered from
delays and in some cases cost overruns. Common causes of delay have included
the time required to arrange the required cofinancing, difficulties in re-
cruiting and retaining foreign advisors and in attracting foreign contractors,
inexperience in project mobilization, and in recent years shortages of both
1/ Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in the
President's Report for the Roads Flood Reconstruction Project, an IDA
credit for which was signed on October 27, 1982.
2/ Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under Credits
560 and 1038.



- 9 -
skilled and unskilled manpower. But projects are in almost all cases being
properly implemented even if delayed. Disbursement performance under IDA
credits in PDRY has been satisfactory during the past two years. It is
superior to other countries in the Middle East and compares favorably with the
Bankwide average. This trend is expected to continue. Lessons learned from
experience with delays and cost overruns in earlier projects are being taken
into account in our follow-up projects. Annex II contains a summary statement
of IDA credits as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
29.      Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.
Under preparation are a first health development project, and a water supply
project for the town of Seiyun in the Wadi Hadramawt. Project possibilities
in agriculture, fisheries, industry, transport, education and power are also
under consideration. As in the recent past, the costs of future projects
are expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA can provide to
PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other development
agencies to join IDA in the financing of suitable projects. From FY71 through
mid FY83, IDA has been successful in securing through its projects about $143
million of cofinancing from other aid donors (UNDP $1.5 million; Kuwait Fund
$26 million; Arab Fund $49.5 million; Islamic Development Bank $11 million,
Abu Dhabi Fund $16 million, OPEC Fund $22 million, IFAD $11 million and EEC
*6.4 million), thus helping to increase the inflow of development aid to the
country.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND PROJECT AREA 1/
General
30.      From independence in 1967 to the present, with the exception of some
limited production of cotton for export and local manufacturing, agriculture
in PDRY has been largely for subsistence, with a modest marketable surplus in
some crops sufficient only to supply part of the needs of nearby villages and
towns. PDRY is heavily dependent on imported foodstuffs. It is estimated
that up to 1975, the agricultural sector, including fisheries, contributed
only about 20 percent of GDP, 87 percent of exports, and employed about 50
percent of the economically active population. In 1980, the most recent year
for which full information is available, the sector contributed 11 percent of
GDP (of which agriculture alone accounted for about 8 percent), 87 percent of
exports and about 40 percent of total employment. About 65 percent of the
PDRY population of 1.9 million live in rural areas.
31.      PDRY's generally mountainous and desert topography, its arid climate
with high temperatures and little precipitation, and the absence of perennial
water streams limit agricultural production to some 12 scattered wadis com-
prising the total cultivable area of about 200,000 ha or less than 1 percent
of the country's land surface. Of this, an average of about 65,000 ha is
cropped annually in addition to about 6,000 ha of date orchards and other tree
crops. Agriculture is almost entirely dependent upon irrigation--either spate
1/ An Agricultural Sector Memorandum (Report No. 4006-YDR) of September 15,
1982 provides substantial additional information on the agricultural
sector in PDRY (see para. 35).



- 10 -
(flood) irrigation using water diverted from seasonal spates (floods), or
well-irrigation using groundwater. The amount of land under spate irrigation
ranges from about 40,000 ha up to 75,000 ha annually, with an average of about
50,000 ha. Well irrigation provides water for about 20,000 ha.
32.      The performance of agriculture has been disappointing, despite recent
upward adjustments of the controlled producer prices of several major
commodities. Partly as a result of rising wages and levels of remittances,
food imports including UN commodity assistance, have increased steadily and in
1980 reached $204 million. Production of cereals, sesame, and vegetable oils
have been stagnating, while fodder and vegetable production have increased.
Largely due to low producer prices and the increasing cost of labor, cotton
production has not recovered from its decline in the late 70s.
33.      Beginning in 1972, the Government has followed an active policy of
establishing state farms and cooperatives. In 1981 there were 35 state farms
and 59 agricultural cooperatives. Between 1975 and 1981, the contribution of
state farms and cooperatives to total agricultural production increased from
10 to 20 percent and from 35 to 60 percent, respectively. The Government
controls producer and consumer prices of major agricultural commodities,
transport costs, and margins permitted on processing, storage and handling.
34.      The Government is well aware of the relatively low efficiency of
agricultural production and the inadequate distribution and marketing system
for both inputs and commodities. Storage and transport infrastructure are
deficient and severely hamper the distribution of fertilizers, plant
protection chemicals and seeds, as well as the marketing of agricultural
products. In addition, the public agencies responsible for machinery
services, extension, credit, transport and distribution, and for input and
product price setting have neither sufficiently reliable data required for
planning nor the administrative capacity and technical skills necessary to set
and help achieve production and income targets for the sector. These factors,
combined with labor scarcity in rural areas because of previous emigration, a
high level of remittances and the labor demand of the construction sector,
have resulted in a high cost food production and distribution system.
35.      The Government is now taking a variety of steps to improve
agricultural production and to provide better services to the sector. In
recent years, the Government has raised purchase prices on most crops, and
permitted agricultural and fisheries cooperatives to sell a growing portion of
their output on the free market. It is also examining policies and programs
covering research, extension, marketing, prices, subsidies and taxation. The
Government has established a Directorate of Extension and Research in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) and efforts are being made
to extend the scope of agricultural research to establish a more effective
link between research and farmers and to expand the coverage of the extension
service in phase with the implementation of externally assisted agricultural
projects. The Government has closed down the Agricultural Development Fund
(ADF) in 1980, which provided interest-free loans and established the Public
Agricultural Services Corporation (PASC) to improve the procurement and
distribution of agricultural inputs and supplies. IDA has assisted the
Government with assessment of aspects of agricultural policy through the



- 11 -
agricultural prices, taxes and subsidies study financed under the Wadi Tuban
Agricultural Development Project (Cr 768-YDR). In conjunction with the
appraisal of the proposed project, IDA conducted a dialogue with the
Government on the findings of the study, the results of which were
incorporated into the Agricultural Sector Memorandum (see footnote to Part
III). As a first step the Government would apply several of its
recommendations in the proposed project area (see paras. 60, 64, 66). The
other recommendations in the Memorandum were discussed with the Government in
February, 1983. It has already taken a number of steps such as increasing the
tax on qat, further liberalization of agricultural marketing and pricing, the
steady elimination of agricultural input subsidies and distortions, the
introduction of a more bottom up approach to agricultural production planning,
planning for the introduction country wide of an irrigation cost recovery
charge, and preparing legislation to permit a doubling of the maximum area
that an individual farmer can lease under long-term usufruct right. All these
should have a positive effect on the sector's performance.
Prospects for Growth
36.      The Second Five-Year Plan (1981-85) established a growth target of 9
percent a year for agriculture. The principal objective for agriculture is to
establish self-sufficiency in vegetable production and to meet about 70 percent
of domestic food grain consumption. Under the Plan, YD 62 million (US$180
million) or 12 percent of total public investment is allocated to the
agricultural sector, with 70 percent for 17 irrigation projects to improve
9,600 ha of spate-irrigated and 6,200 ha of well-irrigated lands, 9 percent
for Machinery Rental Stations (MRS), 9 percent for state farms, 10 percent for
veterinary services, and the balance for two marketing projects. These are
ambitious objectives which will in any case require drastic modification
following the floods of late March 1982, which destroyed much of the physical
infrastructure for spate irrigation in the Abyan delta, a major agricultural
area.
Agriculture Flood Damage
37.      The agricultural sector sustained very serious damage indeed from the
March, 1982 floods (see para. 21). Its principal production areas in Lahej
and Abyan Governorates suffered particularly and Wadi Beihan in Shabwah
Governorate was also badly damaged. Damage included loss of crops, soils
(from erosion and from widening of wadi beds), and irrigation infrastructure
(in particular the two largest dams in PDRY as well as offtake structures and
canals). Total losses in the agricultural sector have been estimated at
$500-600 million, that is the bulk of the total damage caused by the floods.
IDA is assisting with the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure in Wadi
Tuban and Wadi Beihan through its credits (768-YDR and 1145-YDR) for
agricultural projects in these two wadis. However overall longer-term
rehabilitation requires careful planning and study. Therefore the proposed
project includes the establishment of a flood control program for all the
major agricultural valleys in PDRY. (see para. 56).
Project Area - Wadi Hadramawt
38.      The project area comprises about 3,225 ha or 20 percent of the 15,800
ha under cultivation in Wadi Hadramawt, a major valley in the Eastern interior



- iL -
of the country, some 360 km from the Indian Ocean and 940 km from Aden. A 360
km paved highway linking the valley with the coastal town of Al Mukalla,
capital of the Hadramawt Governorate, built with IDA assistance (Cr 560-YDR!
is almost complete. In contrast to other agriculturally important valleys in
the west of the country, spate irrigation is of relatively little significance
for crop production, because of the irregularity of floods and farming is
primarily based on pump irrigation.
Land Tenure
39.      As a result of agrarian reform measures in the late 1960's, former
landless peasants and sharecroppers were given shares in the land and
immovable assets. Title was transferred from the former ruling feudal
families and large land owners to four cooperatives. Most original
smallholders also became members of the cooperatives but continued to farm
their originally owned land. Formally, most pump-irrigated land, wells and
palm trees in the valley now belong to the cooperatives, but farmers in the
category of former smallholders retain close emotional ties to the land.
Groups of two to twelve farmers of both categories operate as production units
within the cooperatives and jointly use water resources of shallow wells and
tubewells and share the responsibility for operation and maintenance. Average
farm size is 3.5 ha per family, of which half is cropped. State farm land in
the valley is not included in the project, because the state farms are already
receiving assistance from bilateral sources.
Water Resources and Soil
40.      Groundwater, the main source for irrigation and domestic use, is
found in an upper alluvial aquifer at depths of 5-15 m and a lower sandstone
aquifer at a depth of about 180 m. Total extraction in the valley is about
150 million m3 (Mm3) through about 1,000 shallow wells equipped with
diesel-powered pumpsets and 140 tubewells which are being gradually
electrified following the commissioning of the IDA assisted Wadi Hadramawt
power plant and distribution network in 1982 (Cr. 829-YDR). Gradual depletion
of the alluvial aquifer caused a slight decline in watertables since a
hydrogeological study, financed under the first Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural
Project (Cr. 615-YDR), was initiated in 1978. Water is generally of better
quality in the lower aquifer than in the alluvial aquifer, which increases in
salinity towards the middle of the valley and away from the tributary valleys
and escarpments. The hydrogeological study included a mathematical model on
the basis of which it is expected that some 50% increased extraction could be
allowed, provided an adequate spatial distribution of incremental extraction
is provided. Recharge through the distant watershed, mainly on the plateaui
between the Indian Ocean and the valley system, benefits mainly the sandstone
aquifer, while the alluvial aquifer is mainly recharged by return flow of
domestic and irrigation water, and seepage from floods. An ancient system of
sills and low check dams has been maintained to promote infiltration, and, in
some parts of the valley and its tributaries, to water palm trees. While soil
salinity precludes cultivation in a large part of the valley, over half of the
project area has soils highly suitable for irrigation (United States Bureau of
Reclamation Class I) and only 6 percent are marginally suitable (USBR class
III). Leaching through periodic and partially controlled floods prevents
excessive salinity levels in most parts of the project area.



- 13 -
Local Institutions and Infrastructure
41.      The local offices of central Government ministries are responsible to
the sub-governor in Seiyun, Hadramawt Sub-Governorate.  The Wadi Hadramawt
branch of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) consists of
representatives of its major departments, i.e., Cooperatives, State Farms,
Statistics, Research and Extension, Irrigation and Mechanical Engineering
(DIME). A branch of the Central Agricultural Research station is conducting
applied research on wheat, sorghum, vegetables, fruit trees, soil fertility
and plant protection. A Machinery Rental Station (MRS) provides tractor
services under contract mainly for land preparation and threshing. There are
four geographically separate agricultural cooperatives in the Wadi, which
provide their members with farm inputs, function as intermediary for payment
of tractor services and repayment of loans, and the marketing of most crops.
The first Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project was instrumental in promoting
the use of fertilizer and other inputs and in making them available through
the cooperatives. A retail sales outlet for urgently needed agricultural
implements and inputs was established in Seiyun by PASC in January 1983.
Tractor services are often not provided on time. Under the proposed project
tractor units could be operated under long-term leases at the level of the
farm production units of the cooperatives. The National Bank of Yemen (NBY)
functions as the intermediary for credit under the first project and would
continue to do so under the proposed project. The Seiyun-Al Mukalla highway
connects Seiyun, Shibam and Al Qatn, the main population centers in the Wadi
Hadramawt. Under the first project about 100 km of feeder roads were
constructed, linking 230 villages with the valley's main roads. Frequent,
almost daily, flights connect Seiyun with Aden. There is ample power supply
in the Wadi. Educational facilities include an agricultural machinery
training centre established with IDA assistance as part of the First Education
Project (Cr. 494-YDR). Graduates from the centre are expected to play a
significant role in the execution of the proposed project through functions in
its extension and training program. Water supply and sewerage systems in the
Wadi are not adequate. The first project assisted with water supply
improvements for Shibam, Al Qatn and 22 adjacent villages. An IDA credit for
a Seiyun water supply project is at an advanced stage of processing.
IDA Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
42.      To date, IDA has financed six projects in the agriculture and
fisheries sectors, three for fisheries and three for the development of
irrigated agriculture in Wadis Hadramawt, Tuban, and Beihan. The First
Fisheries Project (Cr. 370-YDR and 370-1-YDR for US$5.1 million) was completed
in 1981 and a Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) (Report No. 3755) was
issued on December 31, 1981. It concluded that although the physical
accomplishments of the project were only partially successful, a significant
institutional capability for the administration of fisheries development
projects was established as a result of the project. The status of the Second
and Third Fisheries Projects (Cr. 932-YDR and 1274-YDR) is described in Annex
II. In agriculture, the Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project (Cr. 615-YDR) was
substantially completed in July 1982. It assisted the Government in
establishing an agricultural extension service for the valley, provided credit



- 14 -
for inputs and farm machinery for MRS, financed groundwater and feasibility
studies which form the basis of the proposed project, and established three
pilot farm units to demonstrate the combined effect of improved cultural
practices and improved irrigation methods and a date packing plant. While
initially delayed due to staffing problems, in its last phase the project made
good progress with extension and demonstration work. It also included the
construction of about 100 km of rural roads linking some 230 villages with the
valley's main road, and improvements in rural water supply schemes benefiting
about 40,000 people. With the exception of about 10km of feeder roads, civil
works were completed in 1982. Further improvements are needed however in
pricing and collecting procedures to increase the quantity and quality of
dates available to the date packing plant. The MAAR would establish by June
30, 1983 a committee with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA to recommend on the improvements needed and a plan of action to implement
them satisfactory to IDA. The Government would then implement the plan of
action within one year of the establishment of the committee (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.03). It is still too early to determine whether
the project's agricultural output and yield objectives will be met. A Project
Completion Report is being prepared by the Government. The status of the Wadi
Tuban and Wadi Beihan agricultural projects (Cr. 768-YDR and 1145-YDR) is
described in Annex II.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
43.       The Wadi Hadramawt contains the principal known remaining groundwater
resources in the country with a potential for increased extraction.  Moreover,
the existing physical and institutional infrastructure, and the existence of a
sizeable agricultural population would permit the relatively rapid utilization
of this groundwater. A groundwater and feasibility study to determine the
potential of developing the deep sandstone aquifer in the Wadi Hadramawt was
completed in 1980 by consultants financed by IDA under Credits 370-YDR and
615-YDR. The study concluded that groundwater extraction in the valley could
be safely increased by about 50%, and that the gradual lowering of the water
table of the shallow aquifer requires a phased deepening of shallow wells.
Construction of new tubewells to tap the lower sandstone aquifer would enable
a number of shallow wells to be replaced, with those having water with high
salinity levels being given priority. Following completion of the study, the
same consultants, financed by a $0.5 million advance from the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), and in cooperation with the FAO/CP prepared an
investment program, the first phase of which constitutes the proposed
project. The proposed project was selected because within the project area
there was the potential to almost double irrigation intensity from its present
level of 48 percent. In addition human and financial resource limitations as
well as the need to avoid a concentration of pumping in any one area also
helped determine the project's scope and dimension. The approach to be
followed in the project was successfully tested on two pilot farm units of
about 50 ha each under the first project. The project was appraised in April
1982. Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1983. The delegation of
the Government of PDRY was led by Mr. Nasser, Minister of Agriculture and



- 15 -
Agrarian Reform. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Second Wadi Hadramawt
Agricultural Development Project" (No. 4127-YDR of March 24, 1983) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions in the
Credit Agreement are summarized in Annex III. A Map of the project area is
attached.
Project Objectives
44.      The project would help reduce PDRY's heavy reliance on food commodity
imports by increasing production of cereals, fodder, fruits and vegetables
in an economic manner. It would help to increase farmer incomes in the
project area thus assisting one of the poorest groups in the population. And
of equal importance would correct the long-term negative impact on soils,
agricultural practices and potential which would result from the continued
gradual lowering of the shallow watertable in the Wadi Hadramawt.
Project Description
45.      The Project would consist of: (i) drilling and equipping 55
tubewells, improvement of 105 open wells and electrification of about 20
existing tubewells; (ii) land levelling and construction of an irrigation
conveyance network on 3,150 ha; (iii) establishment of demonstration
irrigation systems on 75 ha, and spate irrigation improvement for 200 ha; (iv)
provision of farm machinery; (v) strengthening of agricultural extension and
vegetable marketing; (vi) credit for orchards and farm inputs; (vii) nursery
expansion and strengthening of horticultural research for fruit trees; (viii)
demonstration of date orchard rehabilitation on 50 ha; (ix) a project
management team, equipment and operating costs for a Second Wadi Hadramawt
Project Organization (HPOII); (x) training of farmers, and technical and
support staff; (xi) establishment of a flood and erosion control program for
major agricultural valleys in PDRY; (xii) strengthening of agricultural
economic analysis capability in MAAR; (xiii) hydrogeological monitoring; and
(xiv) a feasibility study for a possible future agricultural project.
Drilling and Equipping of 55 Tubewells and Deepening of 105 Existing Wells
46.      At full development of the project total annual water requirements
would amount to 39.8 MmZ, that is 12.2 Mm3 over the current annual rate of
extraction, which is within the maximum allowable extraction recommended by
the hydrogeological study. To achieve this increase and to replace existing
shallow wells of high salinity, 55 deep tubewells would be constructed and
equipped with electric pumpsets, and the pumpsets of the 20 existing tubewells
and 105 of the shallow wells would be electrified as part of a phased
replacement program. The shallow wells would be deepened by an average 5m in
order to maintain their projected yields.
Land Levelling and Irrigation Conveyance Construction
47.      Construction would include 97 km of lined ditches, 143 km of unlined
ditches, 5 km of asbestos cement pipe and 10 km of PVC pipes to provide the
irrigation network on 3150 ha of the project area. All main supply ditches
would be concrete lined to reduce seepage loses. The smallest ditches would
be designed to irrigate borders of 100 x 6 m. The border and furrow



- 16 -
irrigation systems would enable increased mechanization, but require proper
land levelling. This would be carried out by the construction department of
HPOII for 3150 ha in phase with the ditch construction program.
Irrigation Demonstration and Spate Irrigation Rehabilitation
48.      Sprinkler irrigation systems have been tested under the first project
and would be expanded for demonstration purposes on 73 ha, while drip
irrigation would be demonstrated on 2 ha under the project. Spate (flood)
irrigation structures for a combined spate and pump irrigation area of 200 ha
are to be improved, and four valley sills are to be repaired to reduce erosion
and increase aquifer recharge.
Provision of Farm Machinery
49.      Fifty tractors, implements and other farm machinery would be provided
mainly to the farm production units of about 50 ha each farmed by 3-12 working
groups, which as units of the cooperatives would also operate the pumping
equipment and farm machinery under long-term leases from their cooperatives.
The machinery would be financed through medium-term loans from the National
Bank of Yemen (NBY) on the basis of a down payment of at least 10 percent.
Agricultural Extension and Vegetable Marketing
50.      The extension service established under the first project would be
strengthened through the provision of equipment and training, so that it could
assign sufficient staff to the project area to provide an effective
demonstration and training program. The local branch of the Public
Corporation for Marketing of Fruit and Vegetables (PCMFV) would be provided
with 4 trucks financed through NBY loans to market the incremental fruits and
vegetables produced under the project.
Orchard Development and Input Distribution
51.      The project would provide credit through NBY for the establishment of
190 ha of fruit trees, and for incremental seasonal credit requirements for
farm inputs. PASC established a retail sales outlet in Seiyun in January 1983
for urgently needed agricultural implements and inputs.
Nursery and Fruit Tree Research
52.      Production of mainly citrus seedlings would be increased to meet the
needs of the objectives of orchard development, and a limited amount of
equipment and consultant services would be provided to strengthen research on
fruit tree production.
Date Orchard Rehabilitation
53.      Most date plantations require removal of unproductive trees and other
improvements. As a demonstration which should serve as a basis for future
development, the project would rehabilitate 50 ha of date orchards.



-  7-
Project Management Team
54.      A project implementation unit, the Second Wadi Hadramawt Project
Organization (HPOII), assisted by internationally recruited experts, will be
established within the MAAR to implement the project. The establishment of an
Execution Unit within HPOII under terms of reference and with an organization
acceptable to IDA to carry out the irrigation development works would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01). Project preparation is now being carried on by key
staff from the first Hadramawt Project Organization, including the project
manager. They will remain with the project until new staff are appointed to
ensure a smooth transition. Technical experts including a senior engineer as
head of the Execution Unit, an irrigation engineer, a horticultural
specialist, an extension specialist, a training specialist, a monitoring
specialist, civil engineers, surveyors, draftsmen and special consultants
would be provided under the project for a total of 569 manmonths. The HPOII
would also be assisted by internationally recruited consulting engineers (to
carry out construction supervision) for a total of 324 manmonths.
Training
55.      Members of the farm production units would be trained in operation
and management of the irrigation system, pumping equipment and farm
machinery. This training would be carried out with the assistance of the
internationally recruited cooperative organization and training specialist
(see para. 54). Short course group training (156 manmonths) and overseas
training (60 manmonths) would be provided for technicians and some
administrative staff. The Government would have HPOII prepare a detailed
training program satisfactory to IDA by April 30, 1984 and would then carry it
out (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07).
Flood and Erosion Control in Major Valleys
56.      As a result of the disastrous floods of March 1982 (see para. 37),
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), IDA and the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (AFESD) agreed to provide funds for the
establishment of a flood control program for the major agricultural valleys in
PDRY. Assistance would include consultant services, some equipment and an
aerial survey of the areas concerned to develop a program to establish flood
warning systems and long-term erosion control measures and spate irrigation
diversion works.
Strengthening of Agricultural Economic Analysis in MAAR
57.      As an outcome of the study on agricultural prices, subsidies and
taxes, the project would include the establishment of an economic analysis
unit in MAAR which would provide policy makers with the necessary statistical
and analytical tools to improve agricultural price and related policy decision
making at the national level.
Hydrogeological Monitoring
58.      Consultants services (4 manmonths) to carry out  periodic updating of
the previous hydrogeological studies would be financed under the project.



- 18 -
Additional data would be obtained to update the mathematical model during the
second half of the project implementation period to provide a basis for
decision making on future agricultural development in the Wadi Hadramawt.
Studies for a Possible Future Agricultural Project
59.      Consultants services (72 manmonths) to carry out a feasibility study,
including semi-detailed and detailed designs, for a possible agricultural
project to be identified at a later date would be financed by the Kuwait Fund
under the proposed project.
Project Implementation
60.      Under an arrangement similar to that adopted for the first Wadi
Hadramawt Agricultural Project (Cr. 615-YDR), the project would be implemented
by MAAR through the Second Wadi Hadramawt Project Organization (HPOII) whose
management would include internationally recruited specialist staff and
counterpart national technical and administrative staff (see para. 54). Any
technical posts, which, due to shortages of trained personnel in PDRY, could
not be filled by Yemeni nationals, would be filled by internationally
recruited staff with satisfactory qualifications. The Government would
appoint the project manager, all key local personnel as well as the
internationally recruited technical experts and consultants for the project,
all with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
by September 30, 1983 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 (d)). In
the event that bids received for the execution of the well drilling works are
in the opinion of the Government and the Kuwait Fund (financier)
non-responsive, the MAAR would conclude an agreement with the Public Drilling
Corporation (PDC) providing inter alia for the use by the Execution Unit of
HPOII of a PDC drilling rig and related logistical facilities, including
services of necessary staff, until all well drilling and well improvement
activities under the project have been completed. Design and construction of
the conveyance system and land levelling would be carried out under
supervision of two sections of the Execution unit in HPOII, one working in the
Western area and one in the Eastern area. The extension service would be
strengthened to provide the necessary guidance to the farmers following the
pattern established for the pilot farm units in the first project.   About 60
farm production units of about 50 ha each would be established in the four
agricultural cooperatives. Each farm unit would have its own independent
irrigation system whose main artery would be fed directly by the wells.
Extension work and training of farmers would therefore include both the
technical aspects of improved irrigation and cultural practices and operation
and maintenance, as well as organizational and simple administrative and
financial aspects. The training specialist would assist staff of the
cooperatives and the extension service in this work. The Government would
establish legally by September 30, 1983 the farm production units under the
project, which would be able to operate pumpsets and farm machinery on a
long-term lease basis, and which would have long-term usufruct rights with
respect to the new and rehabilitated orchards to be established under the
project. To ensure the smooth implementation of these units, the MAAR would
submit an annual plan of action satisfactory to IDA for the actual
establishment of the units in the next year by September 30 of each year
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08). This would be a small but
potentially highly significant organizational change for the agricultural
sector as a whole. The project would be implemented over five years,
commencing in late 1983.



- 19 -
61.      Coordination of the project at the national level would be carried
out by a Central Coordinating and Steering Committee (CCSC), whose chairman
would be the Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform or his appointed
deputy. The project manager and project technical coordinator, as well as
representatives of the concerned departments in the MAAR and from the
Ministries of Planning and Finance would be permanent committee members.
Representatives of the other government agencies involved with project
implementation would attend as needed. The CCSC would have a small permanent
staff within the Department of Irrigation and Mechanical Engineering in MAAR.
The Government would establish the CCSC with membership, organization,
staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by December 1, 1983.
Coordination at the local level would be through the existing Local Advisory
Committee (LAC) composed of representatives of the Governor, the Socialist
Party and the local offices of the concerned government agencies, which has
carried out this function successfully under the first project (Cr. 615-YDR)
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03).
Project Cost and Financing
62.      The total cost, exclusive of duties and taxes which are not
applicable to development projects in PDRY, but inclusive of contingencies, is
estimated at $36 million, with a foreign exchange cost of $24.5 million or 68
percent of total project cost. The cost estimates reflect December, 1982
prices. Physical contingencies vary from 5 to 15 percent depending upon the
nature of the equipment, civil works, or services. Price contingencies on
local and foreign costs are compounded annually at a rate of 8 percent (1983),
7.5 percent (1984), 7 percent (1985) and 6 percent (1986-88). Costs of all
imported equipment and items reflect current international market prices,
while costs of force account and locally contracted works have been estimated
from costs of similar items now being constructed in PDRY. The cost of
consultants and other internationally recruited personnel is based on average
manmonth rates ranging from $7,500 for senior technical personnel to $1,650
for technical and support staff recruited from nearby countries. These rates
include salaries, social costs, overheads, fees, overseas allowances and
international travel costs and are consistent with the prevailing rates in
PDRY.
63.      The proposed IDA credit of $9 million would finance 25 percent of
total project costs, The Government would contribute $3.9 million equivalent
or 11 percent, and beneficiaries $0.3 million equivalent or about 1 percent of
total costs. The balance of $22.8 million is expected to be provided by the
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD), the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development (KFAED) and the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP). The signing of the Kuwait Fund loan agreement which would provide
funds on a parallel basis to the IDA credit would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01). The Government is discussing with the Arab Fund a loan for this
project in calendar 1984, which would provide funds on a joint and parallel
basis with the IDA credit. A grant from the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) is also under discussion. The Government would establish and
maintain a 90 day $300,000 revolving fund to finance advance payments to local
contractors, payments of force account works, payments for technical



- 20 -
assistance and for equipment, vehicles, housing and operating costs financed
under the IDA credit. The opening of the revolving fund would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01). The Government is discussing the opening of a similar revolving fund
with the Arab Fund. The financing plan was discussed and agreed upon at
negotiations.
On-Lending and Agricultural Credit
64.      The farm production units and cooperatives of the project area would
require short-term loans to finance fertilizer and fann inputs and medium-term
loans to finance farm machinery, pumpsets and orchard plantations. The PCMFV
would require medium-term loans for purchasing about 4 trucks. The National
Bank of Yemen (NBY), which is the sole source of institutional credit in PDRY,
would be responsible for handling credit operations under the project. For
this purpose, the Government would on-lend $0.6 million equivalent of the
proceeds of the proposed credit and $2.85 million equivalent of the proceeds
of the proposed Kuwait and Arab Fund loans to NBY at an interest rate of 5
percent for a term of 12 years, including a three-year grace period, for
relending to the beneficiaries (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 and
Schedule 4 (A)). Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and NBY which is satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01). The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government and the
Ministry of Finance would guarantee all sub-loans to project beneficiaries.
NBY is successfully handling credit operations for the three previous IDA
financed agricultural development projects where the loans are given to state
farms, cooperatives and the MRS at interest rates of 6 percent for short-term
credit and 5.5 percent for medium-term credit. The Government agreed that:
(i) NBY, when relending, would charge interest rates of not less than 8
percent for short-term and 7.5 percent for medium term loans to the
sub-borrowers in this project; and (ii) any general increase in NBY's interest
rates would apply to all subsequent project subloans. The Government also
agreed that sub-borrowers should make at least a 10 percent equity
contribution and that this would entitle farm units to usufruct rights in new
orchard plantations to be established under the project (Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 4 (B)). The difference between the terms of subloans and
NBY's loan from the Government would cover its administrative expenses.
65.      These interest rates described above are approximately the same as
the projected rate of inflation in PDRY: 8 percent in 1982 and 1983 and 7
percent in 1984. They are substantially higher than NBY's standard lending
rate of 2 percent. Interest rates in PDRY are playing a small but increasing
role in resource allocation within the economy. Their structure and level
were examined by the prices, taxes and subsidies study financed by IDA under
Credit 1768-YDR. In subsequent discussions on the study, the Government has
agreed inter alia with IDA that interest rates for the agricultural sector
should be not less than the rate of inflation.
Recovery of Costs
66.      The full amount of the agricultural credit on-lent to farm production
units, cooperatives and the PCMFV would be recovered with interest through



NBY. Of the balance of total project costs $21.37 million equivalent or 67
percent of total investments for the project area (exclusive of 8tudif _-
expenditures for activities at the national level) would be made for
irrigation development. The Government agreed that for the project area, the
present direct production tax of 15 percent on the gross value of most crops
would be discontinued. Instead, an irrigation improvement charge would be
levied starting in year three of the project, that is when on-farm irrigation
improvements would be completed, that would be sufficient to recover 80
percent of the capital costs of on-farm irrigation development works over 25
years.  This charge would be reviewed and adjusted regularly in consultation
with IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02). This charge would
enable the Government to recover the irrigation development cost of about YD
2000 ($5800) per ha (in 1982 prices) without interest in about 12 years. At a
discount rate of 10 percent, the net present value of the capital costs and of
tax receipts indicate that over 25 years, 80 percent of the capital costs for
irrigation development would thus be recovered. With the existing tax
structure, only about 12 percent would be recovered through incremental tax
receipts. The rent recovery rates for the two model cropping patterns would
be 50 and 43 percent respectively. Other advantages of the proposed new
charge over the present system are that; i) it would not discourage input use
as it is not a tax on output; ii) it would not discriminate against
production for sale through official channels; and iii) it would encourage
farmers to report more accurately harvested production and would reduce
friction between staff of the cooperatives in charge of collection and
farmers. The Government is planning to extend the proposed new charge to
other parts of the country if it is successful.
Marketing and Prices
67.      At full development the project would generate the following
incremental production: wheat 2,175 tons; sorghum 170 tons; sesame 25 tons;
onions 1,330 tons; potatoes 4,625 tons; tomatoes 2,630 tons; summer vegetables
1,190 tons; alfalfa (green) 4,175 tons; citrus fruits 3,730 tons; and dates
150 tons. PDRY is a net importer of all of these commodities, except for
fresh tomatoes and green vegetables. In the case of cereals, oilseeds, summer
vegetables and alfalfa, all incremental output is expected to be consumed in
the Hadramawt valley itself, as current deficits are larger than expected
production increments. Towards full production, there will be a surplus of
tomatoes, potatoes, citrus fruits and dates from the valley which is expected
to be absorbed by other parts of the country where annual fruit and vegetable
consumption is about 30 kg per capita. Farmgate and consumer prices are
largely controlled by the Government, with the exception of fodder production,
whose price is not controlled. Cooperatives are allowed to sell 40 percent of
their production of certain commodities I/ directly on the market at prices
not more than 150 percent above the official prices. However, cooperatives
often prefer to sell to the PCMFV at a guaranteed floor price. Farm
production units are permitted to sell small amounts of fruit and vegetables
directly to the retail market, without going through the cooperative channel.
Producer prices of several major commodities including wheat, sorghum and
I/ Onions, garlic, potatoes, eggplant, tomatoes, carrots, watermelons,
melons, bananas and pears.



- 22 -
potatoes were raised substantially in 1979. This, together with falling
international prices of some products, has caused several domestic production
prices to be above import parity levels, and consequently domestic production
is in some instances at least nominally protected. While producer prices of
major agricultural commodities in PDRY have risen between 50-300 percent
between 1976-80, consumer prices of agricultural products increased by only 27
percent over the same period. Nevertheless the Government has not had to
provide heavy subsidies because many consumer prices were set during the 1974
commodities boom.
Procurement
68.            Civil works in the proposed project include the drilling and
equipping of new tubewells (to be financed by the Kuwait Fund), land
levelling, construction of irrigation ditches and of demonstration irrigation
systems, works for the date rehabilitation component, spate irrigation
rehabilitation, deepening of shallow wells and construction of pumphouses for
the tubewells. The contract for the drilling and equipping of new tubewells
costing $9.4 million would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Kuwait Fund's Procurement
Guidelines. Execution of land levelling costing $0.9 million and excluding
equipment would be carried out by force account since works are minor, at
scattered locations and carried out at different times, and there are no local
contractors capable of doing this work. PVC and asbestos cement pipe would be
supplied to the contractor by the HPOTI, having been procured under limited
international tendering (LIT) procedures on the basis of not less than three
quotations from suppliers in two eligible countries. The construction of the
irrigation demonstration systems and the date palm rehabilitation works would
be carried out by force account, except that contracts for the construction of
irrigation ditches for date palm rehabilitation would be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding (LCB). Contracts for the spate irrigation
rehabilitation works, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB). With the exception of vehicles and some minor items of
equipment, contracts for all equipment for land levelling costing $0.7 million
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. To benefit from
standardization, contracts for vehicles costing $0.3 million and contracts for
prefabricated housing units costing $0.2 million would be awarded through
limited international tendering (LIT) on the basis of not less than three
quotations from suppliers in two eligible countries. Small items or groups of
items needed quickly and estimated to cost not more than $25,000 per item and
not more than $0.3 million in aggregate would be procured under government
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA and would include to the extent
possible quotations from at least three suppliers in eligible countries. Farm
inputs including fertilizer and costing $0.33 million would be procured either
as part of PASC's annual bulk purchase, or for items not so procured through
limited international tendering (LIT) or through normal commercial channels.
Other equipment, materials and civil works financed by the proposed
cofinanciers would be procured according to their guidelines.



- 23 -
Disbursements
69.            The IDA credit would be disbursed over 5 years and the closing
date would be December 31, 1988. Disbursements would be made on the basis of:
i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for prefabricated housing units; ii) 60
percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures
ex-factory for equipment for land levelling; iii) 70 percent of expenditures
for civil works for land levelling; iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for consultants services for the HPOII, overseas training for HPOII staff, and
equipment and vehicles for HPOII; v) 85 percent of expenditures for operating
costs of vehicles and office facilities of HPOII; vi) 100 percent of
expenditures for incremental farm inputs; vii) 100 percent of expenditures for
equipment for irrigation demonstration; viii) 95 percent of expenditures for
civil works for irrigation demonstration construction and for spate irrigation
rehabilitation and erosion control works; ix) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for vehicles and equipment for the agricultural extension service
and for PCMFV in the project area; x) 40 percent of foreign and 60 percent of
local expenditures for consultants services and equipment for flood and
erosion control studies; and xi) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
consultants' services for hydrogeological monitoring and for the Agricultural
Economic Analysis Unit in MAAR. Retroactive financing, for expenditures
incurred after March 1, 1983 and in an amount not exceeding $0.2 million
equivalent would be allowed for the purchase of five prefabricated housing
units. Disbursements would be made against normal documentation except for
reimbursements to HPOII for expenditures on force account works which would be
made against statements of expenditures.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
70.       The project would improve the average incomes of about 925 farm
families (7,400 people) by 125-145 percent in real terms at full development.
In addition about 200,000 persons would benefit indirectly from the project
through the increased availability of fruits and vegetables in a country where
per capita consumption of 30 kg is by far the lowest in the Middle East. The
project would also ameliorate the impact on soils, agricultural practices and
production of a continued lowering of the shallow watertable in the project
area and would contribute to improving knowledge about the availability and
optimum use of water, which is a scarce but vital resouce in the Wadi
Hadramawt.
71.       The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 12
percent. However this does not include the benefits from the date palm
demonstration, training and research, spate irrigation rehabilitation and
erosion control, hydrogeological studies and planning assistance components
which amount to less than 15 percent of total project costs. The main
quantified benefit is the annual incremental agricultural production from the
project estimated at $7.5 million equivalent.



- 24 -
72.       There are no unusual technical risks associated with the project,
but the risks which could affect the project's economic viability are
insufficient support from policy making institutions, managerial deficiences,
delays in HPOII start up and staff recruitment, inadequate farmer incentives,
and farmers reluctance to join the new farm production units. The first
three risks have been discussed at length with the Government and the
assurances obtained together with the continuity provided by staff already
employed under the first project reduce them to an acceptable level. More
serious of course would be an expenditure pattern as projected without the
expected on-farm production response. As noted the technical risks of this
happening are small, but farmer response is crucial to the success of the
project. Extensive discussions have taken place between IDA and the
Government on the question of farmer incentives and the Government is
implementing a number of measures both with and without this project (see
para. 35) to rationalize pricing and production planning and to improve the
availability of input supplies and output marketing. The farm production
units were proposed after careful study of the reasons why the existing
service cooperatives were not achieving the desired results and what type of
organization farmers in the project area would prefer. The HPOII would
undertake an early and thorough educational campaign to explain the benefits
of the new units to the farmers in the project area. The project would
include a very strong management component over its first five years in order
to deal with unforeseen events and includes the development and training of
counterparts who would be capable of operating the project once implementation
was complete.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The establishment of the Execution Unit of the HPOII by the
Government under terms of reference and with an organization acceptable to
IDA, the signing of the Kuwait Fund loan agreement, the opening of a revolving
fund on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and the execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and the National Bank of
Yemen (NBY), which is satisfactory to IDA, are additional conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01).



- 25 -
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 21, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN FDR                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                     - HDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL                .DO                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       92.7                                  MOST RECENT            NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       ..          ..      420.0   /1           1253.6                    1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       209.5        231.7     508.5                  713.5                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1209.0         1498.0    1907.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0           32.1      36.9                   47.3                      65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          3.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            7.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          3.6         4.5        5.6                   35.8                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       13.2         16.2      20.1                  420.9                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.8         45.4      46.3                   44.3                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                           52.4         51.9      51.1                   52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.9          2.6       2.5                    3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.0          2.1/c     2.4/c                  2.8                      2.4
URBAIN                               6.0          3.5       3.8                    4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       50.4         48.6      46.1                   41.2                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       28.8         24.2      19.8                   12.2                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4          3.4       3.3                    2.9                       2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           100.0        92.0      101.0                 100.4                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     81.4        87.6       81.3/d               108.5                     108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            49.4         50.5      60.277                 71.9                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIYAL AND PULSE         17.7        15.4       22.977                 18.0                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       59.4         44.3      30.5                   15.1                       5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0           40.4      45.0                   56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            209.5        177.4     145.9                  104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      24.0/e                 59.1                     65.6
URBAN                                 ..           ..      30.077e                83.1                     78.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       5.0T7                 39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         .                     ..                     59.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..         .                     ..                     75.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           13285.7     34261.9    5967.0                  4015.5                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..           ..    1328.5                 1802.2                   1063.5
FOPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1409.1       978.0/f   756.0                   641.7                    477.4
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 538.3                    679.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..               2403.3                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..      33.3/e                 25.5                      27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RUSAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      22.0/
URBAN                                 ..            ..     57.67*
RURAL                                 ..           ..       1.6..
/1    1980.



- 27 -                                        Annex I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN FDR                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b            MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  13.0         57.0       70.0                   88.7                     104.3
MALE                  20.0          91.0      99.0                  104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                 5.0         23.0       42.0                   72.0                     103.3
SECONDARY:    OTAL                   5.0         10.0       31.0                   34.7                      41.3
MALE                   8.0         16.0       44.0                   49.3                      40.4
FEMALE                 2.0          4.0       18.0                   29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   5.0             3.3        1.8/d                10.1                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.2         31.2       24.0                   34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                           20.6         19.5       16.0                   23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..         27.1/h    40.0                   43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.8          6.8        8.2                   17.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAIND
POPULATION                          49.6         52.1       53.7                  131.3                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.5/i       14.0       17.7                   44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           1.0       6.4                   31.5                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            2.3        3.2/d                  1.7                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        330.2        392.2      463.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     4.0          4.9        5.7                   10.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               70.0         65.0       45.0                   42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.0         17.0       15.0                   27.8                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 27.3          26.2      24.3                   26.0                      33.6
MALE                                  52.0          49.9      46.3                   46.2                      50.4
FEMALE                                 2.2          2.5        2.8                    5.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.7          1.8       2.0                    1.8                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                  279.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..      140.0                  178.6                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       90.0                  403.6                     518.0
RLRAL                                  ..          ..       87.0                  285.6                     371.1
ESTIPLATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                   22.1
RURAL                                  .2 ..                20.0                   30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Birth and death rates are crude estimates.  The natural rate of increase does not agree with observed
population growth rate; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1968; /g percent of population 1975 data; /h age 10 years
and over, for 1973; /i 1963.
May, 1982



- 28 -                                                                              Annex I _
DIrI  OF sCain i.NDCAn~                                                                   PageT3 o   5
Not-s   Although tbe dts are doom  fr-oucs               1enal  ladled rise  -la   -t-itboc         -y  ad reliable, it shesld ala  be motad tha  they map ma  be Ioa-
stnaly comarble bec...e of tee lakofsadardire   defiattio     sad cocepta ned.by dif ferret o IIrrIe  In cieccIiag ek  dat.   Th. d-oeea   es
rhele., usful to describe orders of magnitude, indio..e  treds,edceocrr   eri.sordfeecsbteecccla
The ree         I-egops are  (1) t,he same cocetry groop ofnthe aehjectcooe.ltysed  (2) . aco...crygruechselcihrsoag inmetetecotygop
of thEnjocotr    eop   o                     ig    noe Olfporters' groopeh.,o  "Middle IlocoI North Africa ond M1iddle taste  is chosen hecasoftrne
socio-cucural afinitie).  In th  referrte grou  dar It Io nrge   r  popultinergte    riheto   losfr  ah tudi-ate  ond sh-  only ofe
jorLIcy of thecoutLea  inasroa.p h.. date for th.  tdl-for.  unto  the ounerag   of cou..ftiessso.                       h   Idtsor  deeds on the anitahiiity of data
sud isrot cifora  cauton mot he eucrisd InIes~    urgso   n  todicator I to.a.oher.  The-seeeosaeol    _afslI.I tocmaing the nelu  of
AREA  (tbhnaasd sqA.)                                                                                   osair  e            ptL1Bed -ttis. urban, an-rra  -  Popn~irin  (toa'
Tota-l -IToa  sofaooir-   I     of   iso    Isdue   n   nadetr; 1979 data..ohn   n   oa)dnddh   hi   eptleetra   epiihd
Auniultusi -totiate  f agiculuralareaneedtompo-rly er perman_nly                        _oiti-e at    ndpisegees   n  s -cata   hoptlad re
for croPs, P-a-r-  market sod kitchen gardens orroti  fallen;' 1979 dae                               ahltionetr.  faitl  are  ratehtab iast   p hrennip. sstfd
by atleat   oephyalien    Ioatamnspoiio    ruial ao
iffy  tR IAITA  (0)) -trtP  er tp itseat iates  t career   arketprice, oal          dialtareare nt d-cuded.Bursthoaprais,howevr, inleds  ea fd
cl""d by - -I.i.n    Ih.d     W-Ild1 _80                 1960, ~~~~dtIo anpaid                        letdengofmdica!:ttl  faoiii9 tis.  Pti           starl
and ligico. prrelene  usrar t gan  nd hydo-, eacrar an  gbse-a   itiadrra    opiaa    oio  rara-lYhoptfad  red meica  end  a1tacir
Tois  Perlsiln.   id-Yar (boo-oda -nA  of. July  t; 1960,. -97 , and190ctifItf.
among cepunicies; 1960. 1970.y 1 and                                 17.          18 19fdaeO hehushlSfrsatsiclprpss
PUralacio=  projeoioss.n  I           j       a  I    b    n  .          '                          Avoage outer of  pso a-hl-ttl,ubndadcrl-vaeenm
logiio  epocany   t Irc   ooeangrc   toent lyts pe  cait  idhaAtat                                      lcriiy(aos   fdelig)-ttl   ra.  sad-, carat'-
leel  edfeal   it   epc ery   thi liga.7. Iedca.  Thd  par-                                 Connons-oo"     d            Iia  rIt sintI dlpi, lnn   quresa          -pratg
itnosy   nnein       - Iun      looypuatnteoinno groth sicirmrnooo      oa,ml  end                                                       . fml-Grsstue           al  ad e1l
fthebrh   aeI  eul             the death cats  an  elotegsro                  eeenoleto   l   gsathhe 1                     Y           priac  leeI          ecrtgaorsetv
mainsconsant.This  s ocieneionl  afte  fenIlo     p   ats   ecIn   nopiay   colag    eoa_os   nralpinldsob rnagd6l
manl lenol.                                                                           edacsttooreq~~~~.11.8d.li.  .    t L,X"nicooat  deef fear pears of epprove  prIaryi _traire
sise wll he  eached                                                                    naeely  of 1  no 17pesra  f oft;cPrroPonenecoresar  gmral
hsp;190h191nd199  aI.Punt-teacher  rtio-lpiay   n   eodr-Toa   tdeso ldi
poaalnGoth iRare  (pecen) tonald       -      .anud growth rt.  ofttlmi-a                           ecerg    ftoa   dl  puplato  aged. 11 1 year  asS 0-f.
pea   poplatio   fo   195-60  1907,  o           97-
PoplatonGeeib  at  (prcet)-urYc-snal  rowh  ete  ofuran  opu          CNIUPt 05
isron   fr  95-6.  94-7.  nd190-l.Pasege  trs(pr  hosad   eplaio)     Pes-gr  arLcI                                                                                pisLmte
population; 1960. 1971. and 1900 data.                                              mihliptsryneohicleuI P
Crd  loh   s    pr dhunn)-I aeua   eah  per i   -thonondII of m Pid-ys                      1d    Pfe Plror   (pe  tho 1sa   pouaiol-Al  ye  o   aeiosfo,ai
poosio;160t      90  andth  19hdt!hndsc   ogeea   ulcprtone   offpopolste;_                                                                                         uida   m
Gene   tecdoioBt-nr. une   fduhes   ne    il  eri                                                        coe    errr    in        . co 1te  end f-in yor Cinepteimb_rig   of radio
her uneal rooductne peIod if she     Th  Y        hoptriin_so   preet  g- palf _jfar          set  s   toeffrt  data  for. reetyasmyatfecmaal ic
tiiycirn; ustellyd. fleyar_eegse dndn NI  17.en-90                                                mas.cunlie               -tlibr   ..icousieg.  ''-p-
womn o  chld-earng   go  11-0   esp) ro ue hrrhco h-oldeice  t                            ouree Cfccoaliod(pe  thuad   onsrol-Ihe    heav.o..                            c
POO  AN  9OTRITION                                                                                   to- be9  .  udailpo  If  .d,it  per   tlstfo   Ie       ek
Iadeo  of Pod Prodeaio pa  -sit   116-1-1)-bo                f  e   ait   nundIea  sna Aty                    d ttedneprCptprTa-   sdoshesac f
poutio    feifn.cmoiis                    rdoto   aldssedadfe    e                                tPicker-sol  durig rh peer.y lncldi    adisstion   ndrv-n lss
Iap  on caedrya   ei.teoi intnrpiaygnt(..  uaco                                                       n   nieuis
natiunl960 1ocg97no0         cpirvegt;  916)   90 and 110  eta                                    Tesl- -bo  PotId       husea  -toomcll   ttr1prns.Icldn
peIdy.Avilabl  suppliescomp6in  domant             lprd uc1o970potiles                              otcoParable  1960. 19I  andl  19P10 I. dt.9.   5                A
eepoctnaan G,chengs i  sptck. nt   suplie   gincud   oltel  Ifeed, seeds.                            Peae(pret)-PmSelbo    oce.prToae  ftna   aoNfre
household- level;  1970-bI,  1971 ud 17   at.160t90  o   99   aa
onsupy  f  odh       e  doy.   - -.ec     d-bp1  of foo hi.deied an shove., fe-acIvity.  rater ar   optds   oltae   n   eel   ao   aee
orld. Pond S UrvyI6-65d 197  ad  9) d             at o.                                              to the  total labor force..  Idi
trios deta doned  from  life  tbles; 1960, 190 and 1990 dat.1                      of benrheodP
of  gs  er  heasdlir   birh.  1960  197  and  1980 9data                                       Ahslsspoery9ncmelee  Isnh    icoe-evl  elndhibt   minima
bar ofipsoplei(total,.ochaPI"endPcoral) athdepaponabJe sopelsdto safe                              affordable
me arsupl  TIaao   rendsrae   ie    runras    a   ocaalea                                     Baimte   RsPn   Povrt Id oome Level) (0I LIper  fspIs    - arhe. saIttan
pfenue  oftf        i   e  esv    uuats.I  a   ea   raapbi                                           esmlicm   ofldshe t...untry.Y  TrVslee  Is                 t deie   fre  theLra
ressomabld  -n swadtpyta   h   oswieo    aueo   h   oshl                                             n  carol- PAoestef ppplaIor  (Pbu  sa               Surl h_       r   e lt
do mar hove to spend a diapropobltiotste part.ofpthetday  is                                                     IdtcdingIthe  peer
fODAmi trly's IarN  fsmtdI.
darmas  to Eorasa  Bisenal  (entrat of esraifioit -ptoal.  arbfe,sad  -ural 
InaurI of. People (total  urbanlsad crul).srveddb antras dispsalIa
peonam    fthir2 raP'tiv  pepalotinna.  E               Irft dipoa  ma  Ild
the anlianggao ass dipasel, with or isoiesti t .m . g.t. ..f                           CiumM.. sAt-d- tsp
and waste-water by estar-horns systems or the ass of pin privies and simi-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   -  I
la   Iaalaina
PssefsrtPieiia-Pplaindvddb                              dtu        of  pPeiigpha-EsnirT   saw                                                                 d Ban    thsu  -B-vil f
nines  amlif ad fre  a maCou-drie  at aiv..rsdity  isvel.                                                                    Boomasaci. daulysia     . sad Prori-us  Ii-utma
iel.   Ifd ha..g  grsieh ne ire. saismamst. nae  p_             sos   nma   n
aseItg unclimeids.                                           -t     .cf. 



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1981
US$ mln      Z
GNP at market prices               990    - 100
Gross Domestic Investment          310       31
Gross National Savings              39        4
Export of goods and NFS            135       14       Annual Rate of Growth (Z)
Imports of goods and NFS           800       81             (constant prices)
1974/80
GDP at factor cost                 690      100                  6
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries           92       13                  0
Industry                          71       10                  9
Construction                     109       16                 23
Transport                         87       13                 12
Government Services              180       26                  7
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
kin millions Yemeni Dinars)        1974/75   1975 1.   1976        1977      1978    1979       1980       1981
Total receipts 2/                  23.6       16.9      32.1    43.4       56.0    68.0    107.2    124.8
Current expenditures               27.6       25.6      39.2    47.L       61.4    76.2       96.0    137.5
Current deficit                    -4.0       -8.7      -7.1    -4.0       -5.4    -8.2       11.2    -12.7
Development expenditures           19.6       18.9      39.2    57.3       59.7    52.0       74.2    105.1
Overall deficit                   -23.6      -27.6    -46.3   -61.3    -65.1   -60.2    -63.0   -117.8
Borrowing from Banking System   10.4          12.5      15.6    18.5        13.2    27.6      19.0      55.7
External Financing                 13.2       15.1      30.7    42.8       51.9    32.6       44.0      62.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(Y.D. million, end period)                      1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979    1980    1981
Money and quasi-money                           55     67      98    140    168        217      286     321
Bank credit to Government                      24      37      62      72      87      110      127     151
Bank credit to non-Government Sector2i          19     24      31      49      59       61       98     106
Increase in %
Consumer prices                                24      12       4       5       6       10       10       4
1/  The fiscal year was April - March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became
April 1 - December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis
2/ Includes current and development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
3/ Mostly public sector agencies.



-30-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Prov.Est
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)  1974    1975            1976    1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982
Exports I/                               8         8        26        24        17        20        38         28         35
Imports l/                           -190      -178      -268      -365      -386      -411       -650       -763       -797
Trade Deficit                        -182      -170      -242      -341      -369      -391       -612       -735       -762
Non-factor Services, net                22        14        20        10        17        14        14         10         -7
Factor Services, net                    48        18        43        76       111       142       176        199        193
Labor Income                        (41)      (15)      (37)      (69)    (103)    (131)    (146)         (155)       (160)
Investment Income                    (7)       (3)       (6)        (7)      (8)      (11)      (30)       (44)        (33)
Current Account Deficit              -112      -138      -179      -255      -241      -235       -421       -526       -576
Transfers                                1        52       125       174       191       205       284        399        401
Official                              (I)     (lo)      (46)       (55)     (36)      T)       7(8)       (144)      (113)
Private 2/                           --       (42)      (79)     (119)    (155)    (182)    (201)          (255)      (288)
Official M and Lt Capital, net          65        31        73        70        94        59        76        171        139
Gross Disbursements                 (G5)      (32)      (75)      (7T)      (95)      (64)       (86)     (175)       (150)
Repayments                            (0)     (-1)      (-2)      (-1)      (-1)      (5)      (-10)        (-4)      (-11)
Other Capital (incl. E and 0)           38       42          4        29       45         -8        86          2          n.a.
Changes in Official Reserves
(-   increase)                       8        13       -27       -18       -89       -22       -25        -46          n.a.
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year)  67            54        81        99       188       210       235        255          n.s.
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                                 Average 1980-81
US Million Percent
Fish and Fish Products                             12      38
Agricultural Products                              13      41
Other                                               7       21
32
EXTERNAL DEBT (December 3i, 1981)                     US$ Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                     1,404
of which:  Disbursed                                 651
Debt Service Payments in 1981                           11
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of
Good-and Services)                                    3.4 percent
1/ Net of re-exports.
2/ Workers' remittances.
EMlDD
3/4/83



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1982)
---- $ Million
Amount
Credit                                                               (less cancellations)
No.           Year    Borrower       Purpose                       IDA      Undisbursed
Six credits fully disbursed                                       30.69
615-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Wadi Hadramawt Agric. Proj  7.0               0.2
768-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Wadi Tuban Agric. Proj         5.2            2.1
829-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Power I                        5.0            1.1
865-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Education II                   4.0            2.5
932-  YDR       1979      PDRY       Fisheries II                  10.0            6.4
1038- YDR       1980      PDRY       Aden Water Supply             13.2           11.1
1050- YDR       1980      PDRY       Petroleum Dev. Assistance   9.0               5.3
1144- YDR       1981      PDRY       Highways III                  12.5            9.8
1145- YDR       1981      PDRY       Wadi Beihan Agric. Proj.    8.0               7.8
1159- YDR       1981      PDRY       Al Mukalla Water Supply        3.5            3.2
1222- YDR       1982      PDRY       Education III                 6.0 a/          6.0
1268- YDR       1982      PDRY       Power II                       7.5 a/         7.5
1274- YDR       1982      PDRY       Fisheries III                 6.0 a/          6.0
1295- YDR       1982      PDRY       Roads Flood Reconstruction  7.0 a/            7.0
Total                                  134.59 b/       76.0
of which has been repaid                  .06
Total now held by IDA                  134.53 b/
Total undisbursed                                      76.0
a/    Not yet effective (Education III, Power II and Fisheries III became effective
October 22, 1982, January 11, 1983 and February 28, 1983 respectively).
b/    Excluding exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 8 pages
C. Projects in Execution 1/
CR. No. 615-YDR        Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project:  $7.0 million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8,100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, cons-
truction of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision
for a date packing plant and a rural water supply component, and funds for a
hydrogeological survey and feasibility study for increased groundwater use.
The project has been essentially completed with the exception of 10 km of
feeder roads. The date processing plant is operating well below capacity and
IDA and the Government are discussing ways of improving it. The Project
Completion Report is under preparation. The credit was closed December 31,
1982 and final withdrawal applications under the credit are being processed.
CR. No. 768-YDR        Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project:  USW5.2 million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project seeks to improve agricultural production on
cooperatives and state farms through an increased use of inputs, improved
practices and the construction of an improved groundwater irrigation network.
Inputs and farm machinery are to be provided through credit. A water
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 8 pages
management study and an agricultural prices, taxation and subsidy policy study
have been completed. The Arab Fund, which cofinances this project, approved
its loan of $6.1 million in February 1980. Overall progress of the project,
although one year behind schedule, is satisfactory. The rural roads component
was subject to a substantial cost overrun and agreement was reached to apply
funds allocated for this component to flood protection works in the Wadi to
meet the need for rehabilitation of works damaged during major floods in March
1982. The Closing Date was extended by one year in order to ensure
complementarity with the project components being financed by the Arab Fund.
CR. No. 829-YDR        Wadi Hadramawt Power Project:  $5.0 million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is providing an impetus to agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramawt by electrifying irrigation water pumping in the Wadi through
the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction of about
1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks.
Institution-building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance
comprising training of the power company's (PCEP) personnel, and consultants'
services for a tariff study. The contract for equipment and materials has
been awarded and erection of the distribution network is proceeding
satisfactorily and all of four 4 MW units have been commissioned. The tariff
study is completed and the Government increased tariffs by an average 39
percent between September 1, 1981 and January 1, 1982. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.
CR. No. 865-YDR        Education II Project:  $4.0 million Credit Approved
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in establishing three
vocational training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of VTCs to be
constructed in other parts of the country to train urgently needed skilled and
semi-skilled workers. The project consists of construction of an industrial,



-34 -                  ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
an agricultural and a commercial training center, and the procurement of
furniture and equipment. Fellowships, financed from bilateral funds have been
completed. Construction of the commercial VTC in Mukalla started in June
1980, about 11 months behind the appraisal estimate, due to delays in designs
and tender and is now expected to be completed by December 1982. With IDA
approval, two existing schools are being. converted into agricultural and
industrial VTCs in lieu of constructing two new VTCs. The redesign work
caused a delay of approximately 15 months. These conversions should be
completed by mid-1984. Bids have been awarded on about 80 percent of the
furniture and equipment. Satisfactory curricula have been developed. Because
of the delays to this project, the Closing Date was extended to December 31,
1984.
CR. No. 932-YDR       Fisheries II Project:  $10.0 million Credit and $3
million EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: April 3, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 19871~
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in the
Sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorest and most remote regions of
PDRY, and consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo port
together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of fish
receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the development of
an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19 km road
to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages which
would supply fish under the project. The project also includes technical
assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project implemen-
tation and operation; experts to assist with cold store operations and export
marketing; and a national study to assess nutritional deficiencies for a
possible future IDA-financed project. The project was delayed two years
because of the difficulty in finding cofinanciers. This has resulted in a
cost overrun of about $11.5 million, which is being financed by the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development. Construction of the port and related
shore facilities began in December, 1981 and is proceeding well.
CR. No. 1038-YDR      Aden Water Supply Project:  $13.2 million Credit of July
11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project, which constitutes the first construction stage of a
long-term water supply master plan, seeks to increase the critically short
supply of potable water, and meet the maximum demand up to 1987, in Aden, the
capital and largest urban area in PDRY, and to rehabilitate the existing
system which is fast deteriorating. It provides for the expansion of the
distribution network into the poorer districts of Greater Aden to allow
low-income residents to be directly connected to the public system. The
project also provides for technical assistance aimed at improving PWC's
management capability. Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                  Page 5 of 8 pages
CR. No. 1050-YDR       Petroleum Development Assistance Project:  $9.0 million
Credit of July 11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November
19, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project is supporting the Government's efforts to intensify the
search for indigenous oil/gas reserves and assist in improving its planning of
the petroleum subsector by strengthening the Petroleum Exploration
Department's (PED) capacity to carry out and supervise geophysical surveys and
interpret their results. It includes (a) a 15-month seismic survey to provide
a loose grid of key reconnaissance seismic profiles over a large portion of
the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural gas in PDRY; and
(b) technical assistance to PED for project management services, data
evaluation to promote exploration acreage to foreign investors, and training
of PED's staff. The primary objective is to uncover prospects sufficiently
attractive to oil companies to undertake exploration in PDRY. The seismic
survey is underway and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The
Closing Date was extended for one year and the project description amended to
permit the inclusion of the onshore Balhaf area in the seismic survey program.
CR. No. 1144-YDR       Third Highways Project:  $12.5 million Credit of July 27,
1981; Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is financing the construction of a two-lane paved road
(92 km) from Naqabah to Nisab in the presently isolated Shabwah Governorate.
This road is expected to stimulate agricultural production in the vicinity of
these towns. It would also strengthen PDRY's road construction capabilities
(i) through about 130 manmonths of consultants assistance to the Ministry of
Construction (MOC) for improvement of project preparation capabilities,
management, and operations of the MOC's construction units, including the
independent construction unit (ICU) established under the project and (ii)
through training of MOC and ICU staff including about 90 manmonths of long
and short-term overseas fellowships. The team of management consultants is in
place, consultants have been appointed to provide technical and construction
supervision assistance to the Ministry of Construction, procurement of
equipment is complete and delivery in progress. Construction began in
September, 1982 about 4 months behind schedule due to procurement delays and
to logistical and other difficulties caused by the March 1982 floods.
However, completion is expected to be on time and within cost and bid
evaluations for equipment for the project unit are complete and contracts with
suppliers have been signed.
CR. No. 1145-YDR       Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project: $8 million
Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April 29,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production and farm
income on about 4,000 ha. of mixed spate (flood) and well irrigated lands in
the Beihan subgovernorate by rehabilitating the spate irrigation network and



- 36 -                  ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
improving the groundwater irrigation system of Wadi Beihan and by providing
technical assistance, farm inputs and agricultural equipment for Wadi Beihan
and Wadi Ain. It would establish a program of hydrometeorological
observations in Wadi Beihan for improving knowledge of its water resources and
ensuring their optimal utilization. In addition, it would improve access
between agricultural and population centers in Wadi Beihan by constructing
feeder roads, and improve the nutrition of the local population by increasing
production of fruits, vegetables and meat. Project implementation has fallen
about 6 months behind schedule, partly because of damage caused by the March
1982 floods and partly because of difficulties in recruiting all the
expatriate staff needed.  However  a project manager has been appointed, most
key staff are on post, and the procurement of prefabricated housing is
underway.
CR. No. 1159-YDR      Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project:  $3.5
million Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date;
December 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will rehabilitate the existing water supply system of Al
Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and prepare detailed plans of new
water production facilities for this city. It provides for an immediate
increase in water production to meet water demands up to 1985 and for the
expansion of the water distribution network into the poorer sections of Al
Mukalla. The project also provides for the formulation and implementation of
a health education program designed to encourage the population in Al Mukalla
to improve health practices and sanitary conditions. It further includes:
hydrogeological studies needed for the design of the water production
facilities; an urban growth study to forecast the pace of urbanization in the
Al Mukalla area and to plan for the expansion of basic urban services in this
area. A total of 122 manmonths of consulting services is provided. The
project would provide substantial health and environmental benefits to the
population of Al Mukalla. Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1222-YDR      Third Education Project:  $6.0 million Credit of May 25,
1982; Effectiveness Date:  October 22, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987.
The project will (a) help alleviate urgent manpower needs by
providing buildings and equipment for the training of skilled workers and
technicians and by improving the methods and data base available to manpower
planners; (b) upgrade the skills and knowledge of existing poorly qualified
teachers and increase the output of new primary teachers; and (c) improve the
quality of school buildings by establishing school building maintenance units
in two regional education directorates and by determining urgent school
furniture and equipment needs. The project will also help to strengthen both
male and female training and primary education in remote areas. Specifically,
the credit is financing construction, equipment and furniture for (i) a
commercial technical institute at Aden (750 places); (ii) an agricultural
technical institute at Saber (450 places); (iii) an in-service teacher
upgrading center at Aden (630 places), and (iv) a regional primary teacher
training institute at Seiyun (590 places). Two fully-equipped mobile building



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
maintenance units and technical assistance for two studies are also being
financed by the credit. Technical assistance relating to the above project
items is being financed by the Government through bilateral sources under
ongoing programs. Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily with
contracts approved for the mobile maintenance units.
CR. No.  1268-YDR    Second Power Project: $7.5 million Credit of August 11,
1982; Effectiveness Date: January 11, 1983; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will improve electric power supply to five small towns
and thirteen villages east of Al Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and
the capital of the Hadramawt Governorate. The project area has a population
of about 150,000. The project consists of the supply, construction and
erection of a 6.6 MW (3 x 2.2 MW) central diesel power station at As Shihr
using residual fuel oil, 84 km of 33 kV and 11 km of 11 kV transmission lines
and about 51 km of 11 kV and 48 km of low voltage distribution lines and
substations, meters and service connections for about 7,300 new customers. It
also includes equipment to transport material and for the erection of
transmission and distribution lines as well as consultants' services and
overseas training for PCEP staff. The project will provide improved and
expanded electric power supply and help meet some of the demand for electric
power that is at present suppressed in the project area. The central
generating station will replace a large number of small and fuel inefficient
generating sets and provide electric power supply to an additional 7300
customers who are at present using costly kerosene for lighting. Existing
diesel-driven pumpsets will be electrified. The project supports the
Government's policy of bringing economic development and investment
opportunities to rural areas as well as providing them with social amenities.
Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1274-YDR       Third Fisheries Project:  $6.0 million Credit of August
11, 1982; Effectiveness Date: February 28, 1983; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988.
The project is designed to address two of the sector's most critical
constraints, the lack of adequately trained manpower at all levels and the
lack of facilities for the exploitation of the substantial coastal fish
resources by the traditional coastal fisheries sub-sector. The project
consists of (i) the establishment of a Fisheries Manpower Development Center
(FMDC), a self-contained training facility to meet the fisheries sector's
trained manpower needs; (ii) financing of teaching equipment for the training
of refrigeration technicians; and (iii) a Fisheries Village Development
component consisting of the development of four existing fisheries
cooperatives comprising five villages by providing integrated fish landing,
handling, storage, marketing, transport and repair facilities to enable them



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
to handle all fisheries-related activities from catch to final retail
marketing. The project also provides technical assistance. The principal
beneficiaries are: fishermen in the five villages, whose incomes will rise by
80-105 percent as a result of project investments, employees of the Ministry
of Fish Wealth and Unity School graduates who will be trained at the FMDC, and
the 150,000 people in the project and surrounding area who will benefit from
an improved and stable supply of fresh fish.  Initial implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 1295-YDR      Roads Flood Reconstruction Project: $7.0 million credit
of October 27, 1982; Effectiveness Date: Not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project, in which the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development and the United Nations Development Program - the (UNDP) are
expected to participate with US$3.3 million and US$0.8 million respectively,
helps to restore normal traffic conditions on roads in Abyan and Aden
Governorates, following severe damage caused by floods in March 1982. It
consists of: (i) the strengthening of management, installations and equipment
of an existing Road Reconstruction and Maintenance unit (RRMU); (ii)
reconstruction of (a) numerous damaged road sections totalling about 40 km in
Abyan Governorate and (b) two sections totalling about 2.3 km in Aden
Governorate; (iii) technical assistance to strengthen the Ministry of
Construction's project supervision and monitoring capabilities; and (iv) a
transport sector study. Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)      Time taken by country to
prepare project:                    4 years 6 months (June 1977 to
December 1981)
(b)      Agency responsible for
Preparation:                        Government, FAO/CP and Consultants
(c)      First Bank mission to consider
project:                            February, 1978
(d)      Appraisal mission:                   April 1982
(e)      Negotiations completed:              March 1983
(f)      Credit effectiveness:                By August 1983
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III. Special Conditions in the Credit Agreement
1.       Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)   the establishment of an Execution Unit within the Second Wadi
Hadramawt Project Organization (HPOII) under terms of reference
and with an organization acceptable to IDA (para. 54);
(ii)  the signing of the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement (para. 63);
(iii) the opening of a revolving fund on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para. 63); and
(iv)  the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and National Bank of Yemen (NBY) which is
satisfactory to IDA (para. 64).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
2. Other Conditions. The Borrower has agreed to:
(i)     establish a committee in the MAAR by June 30, 1983 to
recommend a plan of action which is satisfactory to IDA to
improve pricing and collecting procedures to increase the
quantity and quality of dates available to the date packing
plant financed under Credit 615-YDR; and implement the plan
of action within one year of the committee's establishment
(para. 42);
(ii)    ensure that HPOII prepares a detailed training program
satisfactory to IDA by April 30, 1984, and then carries it
out (para. 55);
(iii)   appoint the project manager, all key local personnel as well
as the internationally recruited technical experts and
consultants for the project by September 30, 1983; all these
persons to have qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA (para. 60);
(iv)    establish legally by September 30, 1983 the farm production
units under the project with long-term lease and usufruct
rights; and cause MAAR to submit an annual plan of action
satisfactory to IDA for the actual establishment of the units
in the next year by September 30 of each year (para. 60);
(v)     establish the Central Coordination and Steering Committee,
with organization, staffing and terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA by December 1, 1983, and maintain the
Local Advisory Committee in existence (para. 61);
(vi)    ensure that NBY relends the proceeds of the IDA credit at
interest rates of not less than 8 percent for short-term and
7.5 percent for medium-term loans to sub-borrowers in the
project area, and applies any general increase in its
interest rates to all subsequent project subloans; and that
sub-borrowers make at least a 10 percent equity contribution
and that this entitles them to usufruct rights in new orchard
plantations to be established under the project (para. 64);
and
(vii)   replace the present direct production tax on agricultural
crops by an irrigation improvement charge that would be
sufficient to recover 80 percent of the capital cost of
on-farm irrigation development works over 25 years, and
review and adjust the charge regularly in consultation with
IDA (para. 66).



-,                         N~~~~~~~~~~-
X  <\i~S  WC-  X                                               CS  m  
D /VI ~ ~ ~ ~ a 
Z > ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ 
0-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   '
/                            W;.,.~/ 
.     uy                          - tX c1-                          L8
H  iHo&jll _Eg 'H eI
00  00S        a-CO'0OO S,2E       -',,
a-             =   z    C  r                               - C                 /     



I



IBRD 15175R1
TURKEY                            U. S S R                                                                                                                             5 L                                                                                  JUNE 1982
rSAYRiAN                                                             PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AERAB) 
I5RAEfLL&N RAOND IRAN                             -20  IfDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS  BY SECTOR
X4T        N     eoPlz;>No,>< \                                                       X,r_.PROJECTS
QAT                                                            Agricol tore
ARE E.u       SAUDI          JE4                                             4'(      Fisheries
4  )o>AR ARIA    )        f       |                             3      Petroleum   Exploration  Assistance
SUDAN ,                                                                       A       Edocation                                                                                              \
(         YAs S/501V7t  AABiAN  SEA                                            Highways                                                                                                        _.ri
JnIOtiu A,DIO UTI                                                               Power St.// s
. .              -. rssio-,                                                                                                                                O  M    A   N
Water Supply
L       Port Deoelopme-t                                     /                                                  /
PISCAL                                                                                                                   /        E~-
PROJECT:                         YEAt APPROVED.                            /(5                                                                                /                                               'ii
HIGHWAKKDI                             19                                                     \      *1                                         Thom.d
FISHERIES                              19 T73                                                                                                                     A      I          M     A:  H    P.i%X
'EDUCATION I                           t675 "   'I
ADEN PORT REHARILITATION                97tA                                            /
WAR  ADR`AMAWUT AGRICULTURL           tOURH                                                                                   4
WADI TUOAN AGRICULTURE                 1978                                        /
W ADI AORAMWT POWER                 1oo8
WATER IUPPLY ENGINEERING &             1t7t                                                                                                                                                          L-GHAYDAH
16'                      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
EDUCATION DI                          tOUtSul
IOSHERI ES01                          tO 1C                                                                                                                                                      Nishturt
PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT                  1900
1'    g       ~~ASSISTANCE                                                                           - ----           Harer            (iX\     
\         ADEN WATER SUPPLY                      198D                                                     H. or=
WAD1 REIHAN AGRICULTURE                toot -.
MOKALLA WATER SUPPLY                  1oot81                      H   A            ,                                                                                                              EX5TN            FAURS
ENGINEERINGD8 >/  BU          EXISTING  FEATURES:
E ATION mERIBO ITt    1002                                                   Aag                   ,                                                                                     (-         G-vernorate Capitals
POWER Of                              t02                                         K    o                                                    a   hSih                                                ai-     .,.
s PDWER L  1992  tj-<S A E    7  > _   t < .5...4KALLA                          ELEVATION (t.tersl:             a        Parts
Y E M  F- N    ARAB      As Did 1_                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~0                   Rivers and Wadis
200                             Primary Roads
Lo R  E  PU  E  -  _;tcLa w dor Q/  1S\          /                                                _    2000                              Secondory Roads
A  " NIr A g a i/ J                                                                                                                     -    -   - / Y-4 +   N  >  Gosernorate   Boundaries
- -   Inte,rnatrioal B-oudries
0                      t00                     200
Ke,s                                                                                                                                 K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RILOGMETERR R
t_-\                NE_,/r    (B A AR          CLU/F  OF  A D /VN                                                                                                    b, 1eWo,sd 6-eI-               nvms1..
ETH I OP                                                                          46                                                                                       50c ahrsmssw,am,W



