Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16693
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Credit 2026-RW)
June 6, 1997
Agriculture Group 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 equivalent in Rwanda Franc (RF)
1990            83
1991           125
1992           133
1993           144
1994           220
1995           290
1996           306
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Vice-President          C. Madavo
Country Director        N.O. Tcheyan
Technical Manager       J. Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader        M. Muhtar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASP                  Agricultural Services Project
BEA                  Basic Extension Agent
BNR                  Banque Nationale du Rwanda
BP                   Banque Populaire (also UPB Union des Banques Populaires or
Cooperative Savings Bank)
CFRC-IWACU           Centre de Formation et de Recherche en Cooperatives
(Cooperative Research and Training Center and NGO)
DCE                  Direction de Contr6le et Evaluation (Directorate for Control and
Evaluation in the Ministry of Agriculture)
FAO/CP               Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program with the
World Bank, Rome
GOR                  Government of Rwanda
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                  International Development Association
IFAD                 International Fund for Agricultural Development (Rome)
IRD                  Integrated Rural Development
ISAR                 Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda (Agricultural
Research Institute of Rwanda
KORA                 An NGO whose name means "Work"
MINAGRI              Ministere de l'Agriculture. de l'Elevage et des Forets (Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock and Forests)
MINFIN               Ministere des Finances (Ministry of Finance)
NGC                  National Coordination Committee
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
NSC                  National Seed Committee
OCIR-Caf6            Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda Cafe
(Office for Industrial Crops Rwanda - Coffee)
OCIR                 The Office for Industrial Crops-Tea
PCCV                 Projet Cafe et Cultures Vivrieres
(Lake Kivu Coffee and Foodcrop Project)
SMS                  Subject Matter Specialist
SSS                  Service des Semences Selectionnees (Selected Seed Service)
T&V                  Training and Visit Method of Extension
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
UO                   Unite Operationnelle (Operational Unit)
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2026 RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. PREFACE
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.  INTRODUCTION ...........................................................                                                    I
B.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..........................................................
C.  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ...........................................................                          11
D.  SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..........................1.................... 1ii
3. PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  STATEMENT AND EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................................1I
Introduction .........................................................                                                     I
Project Objectives, Components, Covenants, Costs and Financing .........................................................1
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................................2
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..........................................................                             4
D.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...........................................................6
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE ...........................................................6
F.  BORROWER ...........................................................7
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...........................................................7
H.  FUTURE OPERATIONS ..........................................................                                               7
1.   LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................................8
4. PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessments                                                       .9
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS .11
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE                                                        .II
TABLE 4:  CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL                                             .12
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .13
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .14
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .14
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .14
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING.                                                                                                  1 5
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS                                                     .15
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS                                                     .16
TABLE I 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .17
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .17
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES -- MISSIONS                                                    .18






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2026 RW)
1. PREFACE
1.1    This is the Implementation Completion Report for the Agricultural Services Project in
Rwanda for which Credit 2026 RW in the amount of SDR 15.5 million (US$19.9 million equivalent)
was approved on May 30, 1989 and made effective on June 15, 1990.
1.2    The credit was closed on December 31, 1996 which represented an extension from the
original closing date of June 30, 1995. Final disbursement took place on 23/5/97, at which time, the
cumulative balance of SDR 379 (US$527 equivalent), representing the undisbursed amount, was
canceled.
1.3    A draft ICR was prepared by a FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission'
which visited the country in August 1996. This draft was substantially revised and updated by
Mansur Muhtar with support from Bhagwanti Khushalani and Isabelle Razafimanalina, based on
additional information in project files as well as Country Team input. The borrower contributed to
the preparation of the ICR by arranging field visits and meetings, providing data and information as
well as comments on the mission's aide-memoire, The borrower also provided comments on the
ICR which have been incorporated in the text.
1.4    The preparation of the ICR has suffered from insufficient availability of physical, economic
and financial data as well as other information related to project performance, which was destroyed
during the serious civil disturbances of 1994.
Mr. F. Yriarte (Mission Leader) and Mr. H. Trupke (Marketing Economist).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2026 RW)
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
2.1    The Agricultural Services Project (PSA) was formulated to help raise Rwanda's agricultural
productivity and boost farm output. It was designed to consolidate, streamline and refocus efforts
towards providing improved, cost-effective agricultural services for the country by replicating, on a
broader geographic scale, the pilot experience under the IDA-financed Gitarama Agricultural
Production project (PAG). Since 1973, the Bank has had a substantial involvement in the sector by
providing support for multi-component area development projects. Due to the poor implementation
experience with these types of projects, and the desire to institutionalize more coordinated
approaches, the Bank's assistance strategy was being reoriented, by the late 1980s, towards
supporting more focused stand-alone projects that would provide a common framework for donor
assistance. The PSA belongs to this later generation.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.2   Project Objectives and Components. The main objectives of the project were to: (a) improve
the delivery of extension services to farmers; (b) strengthen adaptive and on-farm research;
(c) strengthen the production and distribution of selected seeds; and (d) promote greater private
sector participation in the marketing of agricultural inputs and produce. The project replicated, on a
broader geographic scale, the pilot experience under the IDA-financed Gitarama Agricultural
Production project (PAG). To achieve its objectives, it was expected to finance, over a five-year
period, the following components: (i) reorganization and streamlining of the extension services,
including the implementation of a new structure based on the T&V extension principle;
(ii) strengthening of adaptive and on-farm research; (iii) support for monitoring and evaluation;
(iv) strengthening of seed production and distribution; and (v) promotion of private sector participation
in input supply and marketing. Following the first supervision mission in 1991, the project's
geographic scope was expanded to cover eight prefectures instead of the five originally planned. The
proposed support for seed production and distribution was also reoriented away from direct public
sector involvement to support for private participation, in line with the evolving role of Government
within the context of a structural adjustment program supported by the Bank.
2.3    Evaluation of Project Objectives. Project objectives were broadly consistent with sectoral
constraints/needs, and reflected the Government's stated agricultural development priorities. They
were however too broad and ambitious to be undertaken within the framework of a single



ii
intervention, given the country's weak absorptive and implementation capacity. Furthermore, while
there was support for the project objectives from key political actors at the time, the voices of dissent
were also significant, requiring more efforts in consensus building. The Gitarama pilot project upon
which project design was based, was already exhibiting implementation and performance problems
at a mid-term evaluation, which was conducted prior to the appraisal of the PSA project.  The
judgment was that these "teething" problems could be surmounted. In retrospect, the findings should
have elicited a higher degree of caution in the design, scope and timing of the operation. In addition,
the subsequent decision to expand the geographic coverage of the project, following a government
request, was also inopportune. As originally agreed during project negotiations, this should have
been preceded by a thorough evaluation at mid-term review.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
2.4    Achievement of Project Objectives and Sustainabilitx  The overarching goal of improving
agricultural productivity and boosting food supply was not achieved by the project. The Project-
specific objective relating to improving institutional arrangements for agricultural services was only
partially achieved. Progress made in strengthening seed production and promoting private sector
participation in input and output marketing was either marginal or non-existent. At mid-term review,
measures were identified for refocusing and redynamizing the project to achieve greater impact.
These were however thwarted by the war of April 1994 and the subsequent which had tragic
consequences on institutions, infrastructure, logistical and human capacity, as well as on social
structures and relationships. Disbursements were resumed after the war, and project's closing date
extended, to support sector rehabilitation and permit rebuilding of institutions. This decision was
informed by the desire to provide rapid support to post-conflict reconstruction through existing
vehicles, without the associated delay of preparing a new operation. As it turned out, the Bank
underestimated the degree of effort required for jump-starting activities in the prevailing
circumstances. Project activities are not sustainable in the present context, especially given the
limited achievements recorded prior to the war-related dislocations.
2.5    Project Costs and Financing. At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$30.1
million, with a foreign exchange component of about 37 percent. The project was to be financed by
an IDA credit of US$19.9 million, with expected domestic contribution amounting to US$10.2
million. As a result of implementation delays and war-related disruptions, as well as the substantial
downscaling of infrastructure and private sector support programs, project-related expenditures
amounted to only US$13 million, with an IDA financing of US$11.4 million.
2.6    Major Factors in Achievement of Objectives. The tragic events witnessed by Rwanda since
1990 have had the most profound impact on project implementation and limited the attainment of
project objectives. A civil war broke out in October 1990, three months after credit effectiveness,
which created an exceptionally difficult operating environment for the project and climaxed in the
genocide of April 1994. The war and subsequent genocide of April 1994, together with ensuing
events, resulted in massive human losses and associated social dislocations, decimation of
institutional capacity, and destruction of physical investments, bringing project implementation to a
complete halt. Attempts to restart project activities after the war proved futile, given the severely
limited institutional capacity, fragile political balances and social dislocations.
2.7    The performance of the Government and the implementation agency also had a bearing on
the achievement of project objectives. Problems encountered included: (i) delays and inadequacies
in the provision of counterpart funds; (ii) wavering commitment on the part of the borrower;



iii
(iii) interference of political factors in filling vacant key positions and associated conflictual
relationships between political leadership and the technocrats: (iv) inability to make progress in
liberalizing input supply and veterinary services, which hindereci the emergence of a competitive and
service-oriented private sector; (v) administrative difficulties associated with insufficient
understanding of roles and responsibilities; (vi) financial management improprieties; (vii) delays in
submission of training and work plans; and (viii) insufficient attention to the systematic participation
of the farmers.
2.8    Performance of the Bank and the Borzower. The PSA project was designed to replicate, on a
broader scale, the pilot experience under the Gitarama Agricultural Services project, whose positive
feature included the involvement of beneficiaries in project design and implementation. However,
the Gitarama project suffered from poor institutional organization and bad management and its weak
performance should have elicited a greater degree of caution in the timing of PSA preparation and
appraisal, to allow for acquiring more experience. Instead, the Bank made the judgment to proceed
with preparation on the optimistic assumption that the difficulties could be overcome in the follow-
up project. Once it was decided to proceed, the preparation process was led by the borrower, based
on extensive beneficiary consultation, which was innovative in the context.
2.9    Project implementation was constrained by weak borrower performance and inadequate
covenant compliance. There were perpetual delays and shortfalls in providing counterpart funds, and
Government commitment to the project appeared to be wavering at times. In addition, there was the
persistence of an authoritarian culture, accompanied by weak beneficiary participation and a
reluctance to support private sector development. There were also performance problems related to
the selection and deployment of project staff, which was sometimes excessively influenced by
political considerations. Amidst these constraints, the Bank made efforts to provide close
implementation support from the field and was beginning to make some progress in introducing a
structured, more disciplined approach to extension service delivery. The withdrawal of this support
by the Bank, as well as the deteriorating security conditions, stymied these efforts. Mid-term review
recommendations for addressing the performance problems could not be implemented. Following
the war, the Bank and the Borrower restarted the project in a restructured form. However, they
overestimated the capacity to move forward in rehabilitation institutions and eventually moved to
close down the project.
2.10   Project Outcome. The project's outcome is rated as highly unsatisfactorv. Implementation
was perpetually constrained by poor borrower performance, exacerbated by the difficult socio-
political conditions prevailing in Rwanda. Only limited results were achieved by the mid-term
review in 1993. Following the crisis of April 1994, the prospects for achieving project objectives
and realizing development outcomes were jeopardized further.  Even the modest institutional
development gains realized under the project have been eroded.
D. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
2.11   Project Implementation Experience and Sustainability.  Implementation continued to be
hampered by fiscal, institutional and human resource constraints, exacerbated by wavering borrower
commitment, persistence of an authoritarian culture, as well as administrative and political problems.
The most significant factor shaping project implementation, however, was the endemic conflict that
engulfed Rwanda since October 1990, and which culminated in the genocide of April 1994. In this
context, it was impossible to continue with project implementation, which had, in any case, never



iv
been easy under the protracted conflict conditions. Project sustainability, which was already
questionable due to limited implementation progress realized, was jeopardized by these events.
2.12   Lessons for Future Projects. Any subsequent operation will have to take into account the
changed parameters, while adequately incorporating lessons from the past. Some of the key lessons
from this operation include:
(a)    project design should be kept simple, and tailored to the borrower's absorptive and
implementation capacity;
(b)    borrower ownership and commitment is essential and should be continuously
nurtured;
(c)    participation and empowerment of key stakeholders should be secured at various
stages in the project cycle;
(d)    pilot operations, with clear benchmarks and indicators, should be used for improving
knowledge about the operating environment and finding solutions to implementation
problems, as well as for building stakeholder ownership, before mainstreaming
based on sound professional judgment; and
(e)   the Bank should continuously assess operating risks and take appropriate action to
hedge these in country situations characterized by adverse political and security
conditions.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2026 RW)
3. PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Introduction
3.1    The Agricultural Services Project (PSA) was formulated to help raise Rwanda's agricultural
productivity and boost farm output. It was designed to consolidate, streamline and refocus efforts
towards providing improved, cost-effective agricultural services, as a means of addressing the
growing challenge posed by the country's excessive population pressure over limited arable land.
With a population density of 400 per km2 of arable land (the highest in continental Africa), cropping
practices, which centered around area expansion and increased cropping intensity, could no longer
support sustainable agricultural growth. Annual agricultural output growth rate, which averaged 5.8
percent between 1974-80, had declined to 2 percent by the second half of the 1980s, against a
population growth rate of 3.7 percent. Concomitantly, per capita daily kilo calories produced by the
Rwanda farmers declined steadily from an already low level of 2,055 per person, reaching 1,509 per
person by 1991. Against this background, it was considered necessary to boost productivity through
the development and dissemination of relevant technology, complemented with other measures to
improve inputs supply and marketing as well as expand credit access. The primary vehicle for
achieving this goal was the PSA, which was appraised in 1988, building on IDA experience from
previous and on-going operations in this sector.
Project Objectives, Components, Covenants, Costs and Financing
3.2     j iect Objectives. Within the overall goal of government's strategy to increase productivity
and output of the agricultural sector, the main objectives of the project were: (i) to improve the
delivery of extension services to farmers with a particular emphasis on reaching women; (ii) to
strengthen adaptive and on-farm research; (iii) to strengthen the production and distribution of
selected seeds; and (iv) to promote greater private sector participation in the marketing of
agricultural inputs and produce. The project was designed to replicate, on a broader geographic
scale, the pilot experience under the IDA-financed Gitarama Agricultural Production project (PAG),
whose objective was primarily to introduce an organizing framework for extension and adaptive
research based on the Training and Visit extension principle. It was to be implemented over a five-
year period (June 1990 to June 1995), with field-based activities covering selected sub-prefectures of
Kigali, Kibuye, Kibungo, Gisenyi and Cyangugu. In 1991, following the first supervision mission, the



2
project's geographic scope was expanded to cover an additional three prefectures, leaving only two
outside the project zone. Also, the planned support for public sector participation in input production
and marketing was abandoned in favor of the private sector, largely as a result of the changes in the
perception of Government's role ushered in by the structural adjustment process, and the subsequent
progress in preparation of a proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AGSAC).
3.3    Project Components. To achieve its objectives, the project was expected to finance the
following components: (i) reorganization and streamlining of the extension services, including the
implementation of a new structure based on the T&V extension principles; (ii) strengthening of
adaptive and on-farm research through better diagnosis of problems at the farm level and a
participatory approach in problem identification and resolution; (iii) support for monitoring and
evaluation through the implementation of a decentralized management system; (iv) strengthening of
seed production and distribution; and (v) promotion of private sector participation in input supply
and marketing through assistance to cooperatives and private enterprises.
3.4    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The objectives supported by the project appear broadly
consistent with sectoral constraints/needs, and they reflect the Government's stated agricultural
development priorities. There are a few shortcomings, however. First, these objectives may be
considered too broad and ambitious to be undertaken within the framework of a single project
intervention, given the country's weak absorptive and implementation capacity. Secondly, although
project objectives and preparation process had the support of the political leadership at the time and
involved extensive beneficiary participation, consensus within the Ministry of Agriculture was
fragile. Thirdly, poor implementation results from the mid-term evaluation of the Gitarama pilot
project, which was to provide the basis for the project design, should have elicited caution on the
timing of project preparation. The prevailing judgment however was that these "teething" problems
could be overcome through appropriate project design and intensive supervision efforts. Fourthly,
the expansion of the geographic scope of the project further at an early stage during project
implementation to support the establishment of a national extension system was premature. As
originally agreed during project negotiations, this should have been preceded by a thorough
evaluation at mid-term.
3.5    Project Costs and Financing. At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$30.1
million, with a foreign exchange component of about 37 percent. The project was to be financed by
an IDA credit of US$19.9 million, with expected domestic contribution amounting to US$10.2
million. By March 1994, only US$8.5 million was disbursed against an original cumulative estimate
of US$14.3 million. This disbursement lag was largely as a result of implementation delays and
counterpart funding inadequacies, as well as the substantial downscaling of infrastructure and private
sector support programs which were undertaken at the beginning of project implementation. The
disruption of activities associated with the civil war and the tragic events of April 1994 also
constituted a major explanatory factor. At the time of the closing of the credit account, US$11.4
million had been disbursed from the IDA Credit representing 52 percent of the SAR target. An amount
of US$10.2 million was canceled, and the Government's total contribution amounted to about US$1.6
million, resulting in the re-estimated total project costs of US$13 million.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.6    The overarching goal of improving agricultural productivity and boosting food supply was
not achieved by the project. Likewise, the 15 percent Economic Rate of Return estimated at
appraisal is unlikely to be realized. As regards the specific objectives of the project, only partial



3
progress was made in improving the institutional arrangements for agricultural services delivery,
while the strengthening of seed supply and distribution systems, as well as promoting private sector
development were not achieved. In the absence of concrete data, it is difficult to quantify the extent
of deviation from the stipulated objectives. But the following assessment of the implementation of
various project activities supportive of the objectives illustrates the divergence between project
objectives and outcome.
3.7    Reorganization and Streamlining of Extension Services. A major objective of the project
was to help boost agricultural productivity through improved extension services. The focus was on
the establishment of a nation-wide extension structure, based on the T&V principle, designed to
streamline and harmonize public services in agriculture. There were initial start-up delays and
problems associated with administrative and staffing difficulties, weak borrower commitment and
misunderstanding of roles and relationships.   With the resolution of these issues, intensified
implementation support was provided by the Bank from an extension specialist located in the field.
This began to have an impact in introducing a structured and disciplined approach to extension
service delivery, especially at the provincial level, as well as nurturing ownership and fostering
donor coordination. Some progress was also made in introducing the T&V principle on the ground.
By early 1994, an estimated 20,000 demonstration plots had been established through about 6,000
farmers' contact groups, thus demonstrating the potential outreach of the system.
3.8    There were however continuing difficulties arising from the weak technology generation
process and poor research linkages, which eventually resulted in rehashing of old techniques.
Furthermore, diagnostic surveys with farmers planned to be carried out jointly with research, were
not implemented, thus resulting in a disconnect between technical messages diffused by the
extension agents and the concerns/interests of the farmers. There were also problems associated with
shortages of qualified extension staff, low staff motivation and incessant counterpart funding
problems. Other problems of systemic and policy nature included the persistence of a top-down,
bureaucratic culture and weak community empowerment, and a lack of understanding and
commitment to the system among some technical staff. The departure from the field of the
implementation specialist and the deteriorating security situation further compounded the situation.
The mid-term review, conducted in December 1993, proposed measures to address some of these
problems, including: (i) the implementation of a staff training program; (ii) mainstreaming of
participation. Its recommendations could not be implemented however, due to the turn of events in
April 1994. The genocide and ensuing events further reduced the already insufficient number of
extension staff available to 30 percent of the pre-war level, with many either killed or having fled the
country.
3.9    Strengthening of Adaptive and On-farm Research. The Agricultural Research Institute of
Rwanda (ISAR), in collaboration with the extension services, was to play an important role in
diagnosing problems at farn level, implementing on-farm and multi-locational trials addressing
farmers' priority problems, as well as conducting adaptive research. Improvements in the research-
extension linkages were initially slow, as ISAR was involved in a reorganization process following
the appraisal of the Second Agricultural Research Project. There were also delays in setting up
Regional research centers, associated with the shortage of funds. Gradually, however, as these
problems were overcome, more frequent meetings were beginning to result in useful collaboration,
including the implementation of numerous scheduled on-farm trials. Unfortunately, time was too
short for these results to concretize before the explosive events of 1994, which had devastating
consequences on ISAR. Nearly all the researchers and technicians were killed, while the remaining
fled the country, with only two presently remaining out of about sixty reconstituted staff after the



4
war. Moreover, stations were pillaged, buildings, vehicles and equipment were destroyed, and nearly
all the germ plasma and scientific experiments lost.
3.10   Support for Monitoring and Evaluation. There were no plans for the creation of a separate
monitoring and evaluation unit, although technical assistance from the UNDP was envisaged to
strengthen the M&E function. The Monitoring and Evaluation system was ineffective, largely
because the central management team, regional directorates, as well as operational units were
subjected to frequent dismantling or reshuffling. There was also a lack of support by staff at all
levels, who still continued to perceive the system as a means of policing and control. In these
circumstances, the UNDP was unable to follow up on its initial action plan to strengthen the M&E
services within the Ministry of Agriculture. Moreover, in the absence of pre-project studies to
establish a base line of the main indicators for monitoring the project, it would have been difficult to
monitor project outcome and impact. To address the deficiency above, a decision was taken in late
1993 to adapt the M&E system from an on-going UNDP/FAO project to PSA requirements, which
would lead to the creation of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit at the central level and in the regional
offices. The design process for this proposal was however interrupted by the 1994 events.
3.11   Strengthening of Seed Production and Distribution. The availability of good quality seeds
was seen as a key factor to improving agricultural productivity. Hence, the project sought to
strengthen seed production and distribution as well as assist the implementation of a national seeds
policy. Specifically, it sought to: (a) enhance the capacity of the Selected Seed Services (SSS) of
MiNAGRI for improved seed quality control, certification and supervision; (b) facilitate the gradual
rationalization of seed production through improved management of seed farms and the development
of a multi-purpose farm that would serve as a focal point for small farmer contract outgrower
schemes; and (c) provide support for reactivation of the National Seed Committee as a regulatory
agency. At the first revision of the project (July 1991), it was agreed to phase out support for seed
production by SSS and reorient actions towards facilitating the private sector, in accordance with the
evolving perspective of the role of the state within the context of a structural adjustment program
supported by the Bank. Accordingly, initiatives were taken in all Prefectures to form farmer groups
and support their activities. Legal enactment of seed certification, however, was not carried out and
input production continued to be heavily subsidized.
3.12   Promotion of Private Sector Participation in Input Supply and Marketing.  The project
aimed at strengthening the private sector provision of agricultural inputs as well as processing,
storage and marketing of agricultural products. For that purpose, it was planned to: (i) create 5
agricultural promotion offices (BPA) initially acting as wholesalers; (ii) provide a guarantee fund to
the "Banques Populaires" (BP) to facilitate the financing of the above mentioned activities, and
(iii) train cooperatives and artisans. The BPAs were not created at the beginning and were abolished
at the first revision. The credit operation with the BP never got started because of its lack of interest
in financing agriculture. Training of cooperative managers and accountants as well as artisans
began late (1992-93) and was reportedly registering successes, although no detailed information is
available. This was however aborted with the war and subsequent departure of the Technical
Assistance following the April 1994 events.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
3.13   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. The tragic events witnessed by
Rwanda in the last few years have had the most profound impact on project implementation and
constitute a major contributory factor for non-attainment of objectives. A civil war broke out in



5
October 1990, three months after credit effectiveness, and the country was plunged into a spiraling
cycle of violence and instability, which created an exceptionally difficult operating environment for
the project. As schisms deepened further, the cycle of conflict and violence degenerated into full-
scale genocide, which, together with ensuing events, resulted in massive human losses and associated
decimation of public sector institutional/technical support capacity. Project implementation was
brought to a complete halt and the basis for realizing its stipulated development objectives further
eroded.
3.14   Following the war, the project closing date was extended to December 31, 1996 to help
restore basic institutional capacity, rebuild infrastructure, as well as reconstitute logistical support
needed for providing skeletal agricultural services. Slow progress was made however, given the
changed parameters and the difficult country conditions. Specific challenges encountered include:
(i) persistent counterpart funding shortages due to the erosion of the fiscal base; (ii) destruction of
project investments; (iii) loss of vehicles, equipment and other logistical support; (iv) loss of
technical and managerial staff, and associated loss of institutional memory; and (v) erosion of trust
between farmers and technical staff. With the benefit of hindsight, the Bank, in its desire to respond
to an emergency situation and provide quick support using existing vehicles, misjudged the
complexity of the situation.
3.15   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. The provision of adequate counterpart
funds had been slow and erratic from the beginning of the project, resulting in delayed start-up. The
problem was exacerbated by the outbreak of the war, with funding levels falling nominally as
Government adjusted its budget to military requirements. The amendment of the Credit Agreement
to increase the level of IDA financing did not overcome the problem, and project implementation
continued to suffer delays. Government commitment to the project appeared to be wavering at the
start, especially as the Gitarama project did not appear to be yielding the desired results. Because of
this, there was an initial lack of interest in making available the required counterpart funds to make
the project effective. The counterpart funding problem persisted through the project implementation
period. The GOR was also slow in filling vacant key positions during various phases of the project,
such as the position of the Director of Extension during the initial stages. In general, political factors
ushered in by multi-partyism interfered in the selection and deployment of key technical staff, resulting
in high staff mobility and creating discordant relationships. In the period following the genocide,
protracted delays were experienced in filling the newly created position of project coordinator.
Finally, the government failed to actively pursue its liberalization policy for input supply and
veterinary services, which hindered the emergence of a competitive and service-oriented private
sector.
3.16   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control.  During the initial stages,
project implementation suffered from administrative difficulties associated with insufficient
understanding of roles and responsibilities. In particular, the implementation of the extension
services component was hampered by a lack of understanding on the part of the executing agency as
to the philosophy and rules governing the T&V system, as well as a neglect of key organization and
management features. The project manager suffered from work overload arising from his dual
functions, and was often unable to secure the support of other directors at both regional and
headquarters level. Financial management also suffered from improprieties on the part of the TA
finance manager, who was subsequently dismissed. The M1NAGRI was slow in filling vacancies at
headquarters, initiated staff training programs with substantial delays and was late in the submission
of the project related work plan. Furthermore, the ministry paid little attention to the creation of an
adequate M&E system, which could have facilitated timely identification of problems and



6
appropriate adjustments to project operation.  Finally, community empowerment and farner
participation were weak. Mid-term review recommendations aimed at correcting these deficiencies
could not be implemented.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
3.17   Project sustainability is unlikely because of the limited progress made in implementing
proposed project activities. As indicated earlier, only partial progress was made in institution
building with regard to the introduction of a structured, disciplined extension system that was
beginning to gain the support of other donors. Even in the limited areas where progress has been
realized, future sustainability has been undermined by the deleterious consequences of the war on
institutions, infrastructure, logistical and human capacity, social structures and relationships.
Although attempts have been made to rehabilitate basic infrastructure and reconstitute the logistical
base, this is by no means sufficient. Poor implementation progress of the other project components
at the time of project closing, and the overall operating context associated with the impact of the
conflict, render them unlikely to be sustainable.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
3.18   The PSA project was designed to replicate on a broader scale, the Gitarama Agricultural
Services project (Cr. 1669 RW) which was prepared as a vehicle to test a new approach to the
provision of agricultural services involving extensive beneficiary participation. The mid-term
evaluation of the Gitarama project, which had just been completed at the time of PSA preparation,
revealed implementation difficulties and problems. Nonetheless, the Bank proceeded with PSA
project preparation and appraisal, on the assumption that the these problems could be surmountable
with proper project design and intensive supervision effort. Accordingly, project preparation was
done in a participatory manner. Implementation however proved difficult and was continuously
hampered by similar problems identified in the implementation of the Gitarama project (as well as
the previous projects), including scarcity of technical messages; weak extension-research linkages;
insufficient beneficiary participation; project complexity; inadequate monitoring system. With the
benefit of hindsight, it would have been better to delay PSA appraisal (or, at least, to limit the scope
of the project) until there was a better understanding of why the Gitarama project was experiencing
problems.
3.19   During the project's first supervision mission, amidst various implementation problems, the
Bank acceded to the borrower's request to extend the geographic scope of the project to provide
support for implementation of a national extension policy. Given implementation problems, the
decision to extend the geographic scope also should have been delayed until a mid-term evaluation
was carried out, as agreed during project negotiations. To assist the borrower in improving
implementation performance, an extension specialist had been posted to the field by the Bank, and
with time, noticeable results were being registered (i.e. demonstration plots and farmer contact
groups). However, the withdrawal of this support and the deteriorating security conditions stymied
these efforts. The Bank's supervision efforts with respect to Monitoring and Evaluation were
deficient. Following the war, the Bank misjudged the capacity of the borrower to resume project
implementation and hence did not adequately consider the option of closing the project. In its effort
to provide immediate assistance to resumption of agricultural activity, the Bank agreed with the
Borrower on a new action plan for restarting the project after the war. However, capacity had been



7
weakened to such an extent that this action plan could not be implemented. The Bank moved to
close the project when it became obvious that results could not be achieved in this context.
F. BORROWER
3.20   The Borrower's performance during project implementation was generally weak and
covenant compliance inadequate. Project start-up was delayed because of the failure of Government
to meet counterpart funding requirements (a major credit covenant), which remained a perennial
problem throughout the implementation period. Government commitment to the project also
appeared to be wavering at times, which exacerbated the problem.  In addition, there were
performance problems related to the selection and deployment of project staff, which were
sometimes overly influenced by political considerations. Project management problems resulted in
three qualified and/or unsatisfactory audits while the non-establishment of a proper M&E system
deprived management of an effective tool for monitoring performance and adjusting project
operations. The achievement of results on the ground was undermined by the persistence of an
authoritarian culture, accompanied by weak beneficiary participation and reinforced by an occasional
aversion to private sector involvement. The legal and regulatory reforms and enabling measures
needed to promote privatization of veterinary services and input supply were not sufficiently
addressed. The weak performance of the Borrower, however, has to be set against the background of
the prevailing socio-political environment which made project implementation increasingly difficult
from 1990 onwards.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
3.21   The project suffered from slow start-up associated with major implementation problems.
With intensified supervision efforts, some progress was being made in the reorganization of the
extension service, although there were continuing difficulties with regard to weak extension-research
linkages, insufficient beneficiary participation, staff shortages and recurrent funding problems. The
departure of the extension specialist and the deteriorating security conditions in early 1993 eroded
the gains that were being recorded. Little progress was made in strengthening seed production and
promoting private sector participation in input and output marketing, while cost-recovery and
subsidy reduction efforts were only half-heartedly supported. With the crisis of April 1994 and its
aftermath, the prospects for achieving project objectives and realizing development outcomes were
jeopardized further. As a result, anticipated project benefits including institutional development,
increased productivity and output, financial gains, improved nutrition and poverty alleviation were
not realized. There is considerable uncertainty over the sustainability of even the modest gains
realized under the project. For these reasons, therefore, the project's outcome is rated as highly
unsatisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
3.22   There is a strong commitment by the GOR to provide continuing support to the agricultural
sector. Discussions have been initiated with the Bank to support a follow-up operation. Given the
complex, high risk operating environment and limited implementation capacity, a modulated
approach, combining a blend of instruments, is being considered. One possibility is to initiate a pilot
operation focusing on selected strategic areas such as agricultural services and community-based
rural investments. The operation will be complemented by ESW and grant-funded capacity-
consensus building activities to clarify and improve the framework for intervention in the sector.



8
Based on knowledge and experience acquired, a replication of efforts may be envisaged on a phased,
calibrated manner, using repeater loans, or scaling up to major investments depending on the triggers
to be built into the proposed project on policy making and capacity rebuilding.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
3.23   Some of the key lessons from this operation include:
(a)    Project design should be kept simple, and tailored to the borrower's absorptive and
implementation capacity. In this regard, preparation should be accompanied by
intensive assessment of the fiscal and institutional context.
(b)    Borrower ownership and commitment is essential and should be continuously
nurtured.
(c)    Participation and empowerment of key stakeholders should be secured at various
stages in the project cycle - design, preparation, implementation and evaluation.
(d)    Pilot operations provide a potentially fruitful avenue for improving knowledge about
the operating environment and finding solutions to implementation problems, as well
as building ownership, commitment and familiarity with project concept among the
stakeholders. Sufficient time should however be allowed to elapse for lessons and
experiences to crystallize and for learning and internalization to take place. Clear
benchmarks and indicators should guide the transition from pilots to full-scale
operations, which underscore the importance of establishing functioning monitoring
and evaluation systems.
(e)    Social conflict, adverse political and security conditions, have an overriding impact
on project outcomes. While it is difficult to foresee these, Bank should adequately
assess operating risks and take appropriate action to hedge against these.



9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2026 RW)
4. PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Notapplicable
(/)    (/)             ~~~       ~~(V)    (VO
Macro Policies                      0               0               0                 0
Sector Policies                     0               0               El                0
Financial Objectives                0               0               El                0
Institutional Development           0               0               0                 0
Physical Objectives                 0               0                0                0
Poverty Reduction                   0               C               E0                0
Gender Issues                       0               O               0                 0
Other Social Objectives             0               0               0                 0
Environmental Objectives            0               0               El                0
Public Sector Management            0               0               0                 0
Private Sector Development          0               0               0                 0
Trade and tariff reform             0               0               0                 0



10
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS (Continued)
B. Project Sustainability      I      iUnlikely                                    Uncertin
_______________                                     (v')                      )
HWI
C. Bank Performwanc                        satisfato     Satisaa         Deficien
Identification                             O              0              0
Preparation Assistance                    O0              0             0
Appraisal                                  OE 0                          0
Supervision                                El             0             21
Highly
D. Borrower Perfomance                     satisfactrQy    Satisfactor   Deficie
Preparation                                El             0              0
Implementation                             0              0              0
Covenant Compliance         __                            0              0
Operation (if applicable)                  0              O              0
ighly 
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(V)            (1)             (1)             (V)
0              El              0               0



11
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title               Purpose         Year of          Status
Approval
Preceding Operations             _ _ _ _ _
1. Rural Development I,           Area Development        1979    Completed 1986
(Cr.937 RW)
2. Integrated Forestry Project (Cr.    Forestry           1980    Completed 1987
1039)                             Development
3. Lake Kivu Coffee and Foodcrops   Support to Coffee,    1981    Completed 1988
Production Project (Cr. 1126 RW)  and Food Crops
Sector
4. Bugesera-Gisaka-Migango (BGM   Area Development        1982    Completed 1991
11)
(Cr. 1283 RW)
5. Agricultural Research Project I    Support to          1985    Completed 1991
(Cr. 1546 RW)                   Agricultural Research
6. Gitarama Agricultural Services  Support to             1986    Completed 1991
(Cr. 1669 RW)                   Agricultural Services
Development
7. Forestry II (Cr. 1811 RW)      Forestry                1987    Completed 1994
Development
8. Agricultural Research II       Support to National     1993    Canceled 1994
(Cr. 2547 RW)                   Agricultural Research  __               _
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                              March 30, 1988
Preparation/Pre-appraisal                                                  July 1988
Appraisal                                         September 1988         October 1988
Negotiations                                         April 1989          April21, 1989
Board presentation                                   May 1989            May30, 1989
Signing                                                                September 13, 1989
Effectiveness                                     December 1989          June 15, 1990
Midterm review (if applicable)                    December 1993        December 10, 1993
Project completion                               December 31, 1994       Not completed
Loan closing                                       June 30, 1995       December 31, 1996



12
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ thousands)
___________._______________   FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96   FY97'
Appraisal estimated       0.4       2.3      6.2     11.0      15.3     19.1     19.9      19.9
Actual                    0         2.2      2.8      6.2       8.5      8.5      9.8      11.4
Actual as percent of      0       96        45       56       56        45       49       52
estimated                                                   I        I         I _       __
Date of final                                         May 23, 1997
disbursement
2 According to SAR no disbursements were foreseen in FY 1997. As a result of extension of the credit closing date and
Bank's approval of selected expenditure beyond the revised date additional claims amounting to about US$ 1.3 million
are expected to be submitted.
3 Includes US$ 1.0 million opening fund, actual cumulative disbursements up to end of FY 91 amounted to only US$ 1.2
million equivalent to 52 percent of target.



13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                Unit         Estimated           Actual
I. Key Implementation indicators in
SAR/President's Report
1. Prefectures to be covered                    5                      8
2. Extension staff
a) high level                               113
b) lower level                              248
3. Extension staff training
a) local                                    54,600 m/days           n.a
b) overseas                                 990 m/days
4. Extension Service Vehicles
a) cars/pick-ups                             31                       47 4
b) motorcycles                              330                      200
c) bicycles                        __ _  143                        1000
5. Forest sector nurseries                    239                      n.a
6. TA + consultants
a) R/D                                       8 m/m                   0
b) M/E                                       9 m/m                   I m/m
c) training                                 13 rn/m                 13 m/m
d) finance                                  36 rn/m                 36 m/m
e) seed multiplication 5                     9 m/m                   9 m/m
I. Modified Indicators                                                _
1. Prefecture to be covered                     9                       8
2. Extension staff
a) high level                               259                     302
b) lower level                              937                     678
3. Extension staff training                   Allocation increased
without specification of
rn/days                 n.a
All other quantifiable actions pertaining to community support, adaptive research, M&E, seed
production, promotion of private initiative, women support program and animal productions were
not only marginally tackled by the project and are therefore not listed here. The only notable
exception was the training of artisans by an NGO under the private sector support initiative.
After extension of geographical coverage.
5 Funded by CIDA.



14
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Not applicable
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
PIrpose          J   Status   j             Impact
Marketing of       Improvement of marketing     Completed    No impact as study was completed
Agricultural       system                                    only after the events of April 1994
Products
Processing of      To identify scope for rural  Not
Agricultural       agroprocessing               Implemented
Products
Introduction of fruit  To diversity agricultural  ISAR6
and vegetables     production base
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(in US$ million)
Appraisal estimate              Actial estimate
Item                Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign     Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Construction                    3.3       2.2       5.5        0.5       0.3       0.8
B. Equipment, Vehicles,            1.7       2.2       3.9        2.8       3.6       6.4
Materials etc.
C. Consultants, Training and       0.9       2.6       3.5        0.5       1.5       2.1
Studies
D. Promotion                       2.0       0.5       2.5        0.0       0.0       0.0
E. Nursery Forest Cafe             2.3       0.6       2.8        0.2       0.0       0.2
Sub-total                         10.2       8.1      18.3       4.0        5.5       9.5
II. Operating Costs                8.8       3.1      11.9        2.5       0.9       3.4
Total Project Costs               18.9      11.2      30.1        6.5       6.4      12.9
6 The study was initiated by ISAR under the Agricultural Research II Project ( Cr. 2547) but not yet completed.



15
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$ million)
i_____________________          Appraisal estimate                Actual estimate
Source            Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign      Total
IDA                          9.9       10.0       19.9        5.7        5.6       11.3
Government                   9.0        1.2       10.2        0.8        0.8        1.6
Total                       18.9       11.2       30.1        6.5        6.4       12.9
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
On assumption that annually 4 percent of families would adopt improved farming practices, it
was estimated at appraisal that the project would achieve an ERR of 15 percent. Due to the
interruption caused by the war and the subsequent near collapse of the extension system no
attempt has been made to re-estimate the ERR, especially since no agricultural statistics
covering the project period were available.
Includes US$ 1.3 million in Taxes.
8 Includes US$ 70,000 in taxes (mission estimate)



16
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement       Section      Covenant   Present    Original fulfilment date    Revised fulfilment date                  Description of                              Comments
type       status                                                                          covenant
DCA          2.02 b)         I           C                                                              Special Account
3.02 b)        9            CD        Nov. 30 annually                                    Annual Work Plan                                 Repeatedly late
3.02 c)        9            C         Nov. 30 1992               Nov. 30, 1993             Mid-tern Review                                 Postponed by one year
3.02 d)        9            C          July 31, annually                                   Reporting
3.03 a)        4            CP         January 1, annually                                 Governunent funding                             Late and insufficient
3.03 b) (i)    4            C          January 1, annually                                 Project account
3.03 b) (i), (ii)   4       CD         January 1, annually       .                         Fund availability                               Repeatedly late
3.03 c)        3            CD         January 1, annually                                 Funding of local subaccounts                    Repeatedly late
3.04           10           C          June 30, 1990                                       Extension, contracting to local communes                                             l
3.05           10           NC         Dec. 31, 1994                                       Forest nurseries, divestment                    Marginal progress made
3.06 a) and b)   2          NC                                                             Rental of housing to staff                      Staff resistance
3.06 c) and d)   2          C                                                              Leasing equipment to staff
3.06 e)        10           C          Dec. 15, 1990                                       Gishwati Centre, privatisation proposals
3.07           10           CP         Dec. 31, 1992                                       Seeds production, cost recovery, seed certification  Process was under review prior to April
1994
3.08 (i)       10           CP         March 31, 1990                                      Contracting credit to Banques Populaires and co-  Limited loans extended but no records
operative                                       available
3.08 (ii)      10           CP         March 31, 1990                                      Support activities to IWACU                     Limited training given
3.09           9            NC         Dec. 31,1991                                        Monitoring and evaluation                       Late attempts to establish a system were
swatted by the events of 1994
4.01 a)        I            CP         Annually                                            Maintain records and accounts                   Disrupted by events of April 1994
4.01 b)        I            CP         June 30, annually                                   Audit accounts, including Special Account, no later    Disrupted by events of April 1994
than six months after end of fiscal year
4.01 c)        I            CP         Annually                                            Maintain and audit records of statements of expenditure Disrupted by events of April 1994
for which withdrawals have been made from the Credit
Covenant types: I = Accounts/audits; 2  Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries; 3  Flow and utilisation of project funds; 4 = Counterpart funding; 5 = Management aspects of the project or
executing agency; 6 = Environmental covenants; 7 = Involuntary resettlement; 8 = Indigenous people; 9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting; 10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
Present status: C = covenant complied with; CD =complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC =not complied with



17
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements could be observed.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage ofroject Cycle                       ACTUAL
......._________, _.. __.                  W eeks           US$('000}
Preparation to appraisal                    61.7               122.6
Appraisal                                   32.1                82.2
Negotiations through Board-Effectiveness    10.6                27.3
Supervision                                137.2               400.9
Completion                                  14.8                56.2
TOTAL                                      256.5               689.2



18
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Number                   Specialized      Implementation    Development
Stage of          Month/          of       Days in       Staff Skills          Status         Objectives       Types of
Project Cycle        Year         Persons      Field       Represented                                           Problems
(IDA)
Identification          12/86             4        10        E; Al AE; FA.                                .
Preparation Assistance    11/87           2       5          E; A
Preparation Assistance    03/88           3       9          El A. FA
Pre-appraisal           07/88             7        16        E. A. FA, ExS,
SS; ME; RD
Appraisal               10/88             3        12
E; A; FA
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision 1           7/91              3        10        A; ExS; AF                 3                 3         Financial.
Management,
Legal Con..,
Supervision II          5/92              3       5          A, FA; ExS                 2                 I         Financial, Legal
Cov.
Supervision III         6/93              1       2          AE                         2                 2         Financial
Supervision IV          12/93             5        19        FA; ExS; A; PS             2                 2         All
(Mid-Termn Review)
Supervision V           6/95              3        15         AE; OA; A                HU                HtJ        Financial,
Management, Etc.
Supervision VI          11/95             3       9          AE; OA: A                 HU                HU         Financial,
Maniagement, Etc.
Supervision VII        6/96              2        16         FA; A                     HU               HU          All
Completion9             8/96              2        12        A; AE                      U                Hl]
E    =  Economist                                 ME  =  Monitoring Evaluation
A    =  Agriculturist                              RD          Research Development
AE    =    Agricultural Economist                 PS           Privatization Specialist
FA   =  Financial Analyst                         OA           Operations Analyst
ExS   =    Extension Specialist                    HU          Highly Unsatisfactory
SS    =    Seed Specialist                        U            Unsatisfactory.
Draft preparation by FAO/CP.



NOTES









IMAGING
Report No.:        16693
Type:     ICR



