Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Z~~~a &s R- RS-
Report No. 7599-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUANDA
AGRICULTJRAL SERVICES PROJECT
MAY 8, 1989
Agricultural Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This docweut has a residted dlsubudon and may be used by redslnt only in te perfonnaDof
thdwr a    *     Ih           v ' s               a                                  I



CURNCr EOUiv S
Currency Unit   - Rwandese Franc (RF)
US $1.00        - RF  77
RF    100       - US $1.30
US $1.29        - 1 SDR
The U.S. dollar/Rwandese franc rate is subject to change.  Conversions in the
Staff Appraisal Report were made at US $1.00 - RF 77, the average exchange rate
at the time of appraisal in October 1988.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                    British/US Equivalents
1 meter (a)                                3.28  feet (ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)                  -     35.3   cubic feet
1 hectare (ha) - 100 ares                  2.47  acres
1 kilometer (km)                    -      0.624 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)            -      0.386 square mile (sq. m.)
1 kilogram (kg)                     -      2.20 pounds (lb.)
1 liter (1)                         D      0.26  U.S. gallon (gal.)
0.22 Imperial gallon (imp. gal.)
1 metric ton (m t)                         2,204 pounds (lb.)
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDk
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OP ABSREVIATIONS
ASP         -     Agricultural Services Project
BEA         -     BSJic Exten ion Agent
BGM         -     Bugesera-GisAka-Migongo Project
BNR         -     Banque Nationals du Rwanda
BP          a     Banques Populaires (also UPB Union des Banques Populaires or
Cooperative Savings Bank)
BRD         -     Banque Rwandaise do Doveloppement (Rwandan Development Bank)
CCDFP       -     Centre Comual de Developpement et de Formation Permanente
(Centers for Coumunal Development and Permanent Trainig of
the Ministry of the Intorior)
CFRC-IWACU  -     Centre  de  Formation  *t  de  Recherche  en  Cooperatives
(Cooperative Research and Training Center an NGO)
COOPIBO     -     Compagnons Batisseurs (an NGO involved in development of
cooperatives)
DCE         -     Direction de Controle et Evaluation (Directorate for Control
end Evaluation in the Ministry of Agriculture)
FAO/CP      a     Food and A4riculture Organlzation Cooperative Program with
the World Bank, Rome
PD                Fonctionnalre Dirigeant (higher level civil servant appointed
as project administrator)
GOR         -     Government of Rwanda
IBRD        -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         -     International Development Association
IFAD        -     International Fund for Agricultural Development (Rome)
IRD         -     Integrated Rural Development
ISAR        a     Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwandi (Agricultural
Research Institute of Rwanda)
KORA        -     An NGO whose name means 'to work
MINAGRI     -     MiNestere d  l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des   For;ts
(Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests)
MINFIN      -     MInistire des Finances (Ministry of Finance)
MINITRAPEE  -     Minist4re des Travaux Publics, Energle et Cau (Ministry of
Public Works, Energy and Water Resources)
NCC         -     National Coordination Comnittee
NGO         -     Non-Governmental Organisation
NSC         -     National Seed Comittee
OCIR-Cafe   -     Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda Cafe (Office for
Industrial Crops Rwanda - Coffee)
OCIR-The    -     Office for Industrial Crops-Tea
OPROVIA     -     Office National pour le Developpement et 1B Commercialisation
des Prodults Vivriers et de 1- Production Animal* (National
Agency for Development and Marketing of Foodcrops and Animal
Products)
OVAPAM      -     Office pour la Valorisation des Produits Agricoles de Mutara
(Offiee for the Development of Agricultural Products in Mutara)
PCCV        -     Projet Cafe et Cultures Vivriers (Lake Kivu Coffee and Fooderop
Project)
SESA        -     Service  des  enqu;tes  et  des  Statistiques  Agricoles
(Agricultural Statistics Service)
SMS         -     Subject Matter Specialist
SSS         -     Service des Semo'nces Selectionnees (Selected Seed Service)
TRAFIPRO    m     Cooperative de Vente et d'Achat Travail-Fidelite-Progres
(Transport and Marketing Cooperative)
T&V         -     Training and Visit Method of Extension
UNDP        u     United Nations Development Prograame
U.O         -     Unlt; Operationelle (Operational Unit)
USAID       *     United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatiorm



RWA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROTECT SUMOARY............................................    i
A.    Itouto 
B.  Sconomic and Agricu_tural Setting ...........................    2
C.  Government's Sectorael Objectives and Strttegy                    3
D. IDA,s Assistsnce and S4rategy.............................. .   4
-  The 1GC  II and PCCV Projets .............................     4
- The Gitar_ma Agricultural Production and MINAGRI
Institutional Stre nthening Project .............0.......    5
II.  AGRICULTURAL SERVICES.................*.........................      8
A. The HMIistry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests
(MI&GRI) ..................................................    8
|~~~~   Bx.nRseacion..........................................................   10
C.  Extesin                                                          ........10
-  Structure ................................................   10
- Methodology and Content ..................................   10
-  Donor-Financed Projects .................................     11
D. Agricultural Inputs ......................................    12
E. Agricultural Credit and Finance .............................   13
-  Government Funding of Agriculture ........................    14
F. Markets and Prices ..........................................   15
G.  Cooperatives and Farmer Groups ..............................    15
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission
which visited Rwanda in July 1988. The mission comprised of
Mrs. V. Okonjo-Iweala, Messrs. D. Aw and S. Sissoko (IDA),
Messrs. T. Marchan., A. Edery, Y. Clouet and J. MacAlister
(Consultants). An appraisal mission comprised of
Mrs. Okonjo-Iweala, Messrs. Aw and Sissoko visited Rwanda in
September/October 1988. Ms. Robb provided secretarial support.



TABLE OF COWTENTS
Pafte
III. THE PROM4ECT.   o.     .. .....................................         16
A* Rationaleo .a.................    16
B.  Summary Project Description............ ................... ..    16
C.  Geographical Coverage                 .......................      17
D. Detailed                               Fetrs................................18
-  Extension Structure ..................... 00..................    18
-  Methodology and Content of Extension .....................      21
-  Adaptive and On-farm Research           ...... ...    24
-  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) ..........................      25
-  Strengthening of Seed Production.........................    27
-  Prouotion of Agricultural Marketing, Input Supply,
and Cooperative Development ...................................    28
-  Improving Service Delivery to Wom en ......................    30
-  Training .................................................    31
-  Technical Assistance and Studies.........................    32
S. Project Costs ..........  321
F. F4U&nc4nge ........%*%**                                            34
H. Procurement .................................................    35
R.                                  Dsusmns.................................. 36
I.  Financial Management, Accounts and Audit ....................    38
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND ..................................... ...    39
A.  ProJect Management ...................                             39
B* Annual Work Plan                                                    40
C.  Review and Reporting Reqr nreme..                          .       41
D.  External Project Monitoring and Evaluation..................    41
V.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RIS                        R      S ........ ..........  42
A. Benefits and Justification........................ . ........    42
-  Financial Benefits and Sustainability...                        43
B.  Economic Analysis...........................................    44
-  Sensitivity A       nlss4
C.en ivt  Rnlysks .... .......... .......................    44
D. Environmental Impact .........................................      45
VI*  AGREEMENTS                                RAHD.................................. 46



TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNEXES                                  e
ANNEX 1 - IMPLEMENTATION SCUEDULE.....................................    50
ANNEX 2 - Table 1 - Staffing Plan.....................................    51
Table 2 - Schedule of Disbursements.........................    52
Table 3 - MIM&GRI's Proposals for Donor Support to
Agricultural Services Structure.. ...............    53
Table 4 -  lMNAGRI Budget ...................................    59
Table 5 - The Agricultural Services and Gitarama Projects
Basic Structure/Staffing Compared...............    60
Table 6 - Roads and Bridges to be Rehabilitated or
Constructed in Cyangugu Prefecture ..............    61
Table 7 - Proposed Training Progrsm........................    62
Table 8 - Project Prefectures, Sous Prefectures (U. Os)
and                         Cemns..............................65
ANNEX 3 - PROJECT COST TABLES.........................................    66
Table  1 - Project Components by Year (Showing Taxes & FE)..    66
Table  2 - Project Components by Year Including
Contingencies..................................    67
Table  3 - Susmary Accounts Cost Sumay....................    68
Table  4 - Summary Accounts by Year.........................    69
Table  5 - Suinary Accounts by Year Including
Contingencies..................................    70
Table  6 - Suumary Account by Project Componento.............    71
Table  7 - Breakdown of Summary Accountsc....                     72
Table  8 - Financing Plan by Project Components..ents*******    73
Table  9 - Financing Plan by Summary Accounts.ounts*........    74
Table 10 - Financing Plan by Disbursement Categ      gory**%******    75
Table 11 - Disbursement by Financier per Semester..... .....    76
ANNEX 4 - Table 1    - Recurrent Costs of Extension/Adaptive Researclt
Projects (1987) in ASP Project Area......... *    77
Table 2(a) - Economic Analysis............................  .    78
Table 2(b) - Economic Analysis with Explanations............    80
Table 2(c) - Economic Analysis with Explanations ............    81
ANNEX 5 - Chart 1 - Present Organization of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock and Forests..............    82
Chart 2 - Organization Agricultural Services Proect ...............    83
MAPS IBRD 21291 - Project Area
IBRD 21406 - Donor-financed projects with Extension Components



AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summarv
Borrowers         Government of Rwanda
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests, Farmers in
Cyangugu, Gisenyi, Kibuye, Kigali and Kibungo prefectures
Credit hmounts    SDR 15.5 million (US$ 19.9 million equivalent)
Torms:            Standard IDA terms
Prolect
Descrintion:      Project objectives are to:  (a) strengthen adaptive and on-
farm research; (b) improve the delivery of axtension services
to farmers with a particular emphasis on reaching women
farmers; (c) strengthen the production of selected seed and
(d) promote greater private sector participation in the
marketing of agricultural inputs and produce.
The project would be implemented over a five year period and
would comprise:   (a)  reorganization and streamlining of
extension services in all or parts of f4ve prefectures
including implementation of a new structure integrating
extension, adaptive research and monitoring and evaluation.
The structure has been tested in the IDA-financed pilot
Gitarama Agricultural Production and MINAGRI Institutional
Strengthening Project (Cr. 1669-RW). The project would upgrade
extension staff through training and support improvements in
extension methodology and content; (b) strengthening of
adaptive and on-farm research through better diagnosis of
problems at the farm level, inclusion of farmers and local
authorities in problem identification and solving, and
implementation of on-farm and multi-local trials of new
techniques and technologies provided by research; (c) support
for monitoring and evaluation through the implementation of
a   decentralized   management   information   system;   (d)
strengthening of seed production and distribution through
support to the Selected Seed Service to improve seed quality
control and certification, reactivation of the National Seeds
Committee for supervision of seed regulation; improved cost
reccvery for seed production, and rationalization of production
including improved management of ex-BGMIPCCV project se..d
farms.   The project would support the development of a
multipurpose farm for seed multiplication, and adapt .ve
research trials in Bugarama, Cyangugu prefecture. The farm
would also serve as a base to encourage the contracting of



ii
small farmers as outgrowers for seed multiplication purposes;
(e) promotion of private sector participation in agricultural
input supply and marketing through assistance to cooperatives
and private enterprises to procure inputs, obtain credit and
improve enterprise management. NGOS and the Banques Populaires
would be contracted to provide the needed services.
Benefits and
2isks:            Project benefits are expected to be: (a) increased productiv-
ity and output for an estimated 168,000 farm families, and,
as a result  better nutrition and incomes.   An additional
400,000 farm families will also benefit from improved
supervision and coo-dination of prefecture wide agricultural
activities by the prefecture teams to be financed under the
project; (b) a strengthened field service expected to provide
the framework for future coordinated donor support to
extension; and (c) savings in the running costs of a more
streamlined extension and adaptive research service. The main
project risk is the limited availability of university trained
personnel for the adaptive research service and the higher
echelons of the extension service. To minimize this risk, a
great deal of emphasis will be placed on continuous on-the-
job training to upgrade post-secondary staff and render them
capable of performing specialized tasks.
Estimated Proiect Costs:                Local       Foreisn       Total
<---------US$ million-------->
Extension, Adaptive Research and
Monitoring & Evaluation Services
(including support investments in
Livestock and Forestry)                 11.0          6.0          17.0
Strengthening of Seed Production
and Distribution                         1.0          0.8           1.8
Promotion of Private Sector
participation in Marketing, Input
Supply, and Cooperative Develop-
ment                                     2.3          0.9           3.2
Central Administration                   0.6          1.2           1.8
Studies                                  0.4          0.1           0.5
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    15.3          9.0          24.3
Physical Contingencies                   1.0          0.9           1.9
Price Contingencies                      2.6          1.3           3.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS1'                   18.9         11.2          30.1
1/  Includes direct taxes of about US$ 1.3 million.



iii
Financing Plant
Local       Foreitn       Total
-------USS  million-------->
Government2l                             9.0        1.2           10.2
IDA                                      9.9       10.0          19.9
TOTAL                                   18.9       11.2          30.1
Estimated Disbursemente:
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year         1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Annual                   0.4      1.9     3.9     4.8     4.3      3.8     0.8
Cumulative               0.4      2.3     6.2    11.0    15.3    19.1    19.9
Rate of Returns   Based on an indicative calculation of the order of magnitude
of benefits needed to produce a 15% ERR and the likelihood of
attaining these benefits. If the net incremental bernefits due
to improved agricultural services were to reach RF 1020 million
(US$ 13 million) per year by project year 15 i.e. 9% above the
estimated "without project case" discounted economic benefits
would equal discountea costs and the ERR would be 15%.
Conservative adoption rates of new cultivation practices (an
average 4% yearly) and modest production increases (11 annually
would lead to a 15% ERR. Evidence from Bank financed extension
projects in other sub-saharan African countries (e.g. Togo and
Central African Republic), indicate adoption rates for new
extension themes of 10-50% among farmers sampled.
2/ Includes the US$ 1.3 million in taxes.



RWANDA
AGRCULTURL SERVICES S
I. BACRGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01        The project would support the reorganization of extension services
on a national scale beginning in five of Rwanda's ten prefectures.   This
reorganization would include specific measures to improve extension delivery to
women farmers responsible for the majority of agricultural tasks in Rwanda.
The project would develop an adaptive research structure and strengthen the
production and distribution of improved seed.   An extension monitoring and
evaluation system would be developed and increased private sector participation
in input supply and produce marketing promoted.
1.02        The proposed project would build on lessons learned in the pilot
Gitarama Agricultural Production project (Cr. 1669-RW) designed to test a new
approach to the delivery of agricultural services in the Gitarama prefecture.
It would consolidate and improve on extension work undertaken in two IDA-financed
projects, the Lake Kivu Coffee and Fooderop Production (PCCV) Project (Cr. 1126-
RW) and the second Bugesera-Gisaka-Migongo (BGM II) project (Cr. 1283-RW). The
PCCV project closed June 30, 1988 and the BGM project is due to close December
31, 1989. The project will be a continuation of Government of Rwanda (GOR) and
IDA's attempts to build national agricultural services as a response to emerging
constraints encountered with integrated rural development (IRD) projects. By
developing needed infrastructure, the latter have been successful in laying the
foundations for future agricultural development. However, they have, on balance,
proven costly in manpower and financial terms leading to doubts about GOR's
capacity to sustain the investments in the long-term. Furthermore, they have
led to the creation of parallel institutional structures that are difficult to
coordinate, and by channelling resources to these structures, have contributed
to a weakening of agricultural management capacity. The development of national
asricultural services aims to streamline service delivery to make it cost
effective, easier to sustain in the long-term, and capable of responding to the
dif.icult challenge of increasing productivity in the agriculture sector. The
Agricultural Research project (Cr. 1546-RW), which became effective in Ncvember
1985, was the first in this series of institution building p-ojects, followed
by the Gitarama Agricultural ProductionJMINAGRI Institutional strengthening
project. The proposed project would modify and expand, on a national scale, the
Gitarama extension and agricultural services model.
1.03        The idea of a national Agricultural Services project was first
discussed at a joint GOR-IDA programming workshop held in Mey 1986. GOR and
IDA recog;aized that the BGM and PCCV projects would soon close and there would
be a neei to continue the extension activities begun under those projects. It
was accepted that continuation of extension activities could no longer be on
the basis of the dispersed efforts that characterized Bank financed and other
donor-supported IRD projects but would have to be within the framework of a
national extension policy and structure along the lines of Gitarama. It was
also recognized that the lack of well adapted technological packages and



- 2 -
extension themes, and the limited use of modern inputs would constitute serious
bottlenecks for a meaningful extension effort. An Agricultural Services project
was proposed to assist in tackling these problems. An identification mission
visited Rwanda in December 1986 to initiate project prepLration. The project
was prepared by MINAGRI staff with some assistance from FAO/CP and follow-up by
IDA missions.  Preparation was completed in May 1988.  IDA preappraised the
project in July 1988 with appraisal in October 1988. This report is based on
the findings of the IDA missions.
B. Economic and Agricultural SettinR
1.04        With an estimated population of 6.0 million growing at a rapid annual
rate of 3.7%, Rwanda is one of the few African countries with a record of sound
economic management in the post-independence period.  As a result, economic
distortions have been less severe than in most other countries. According to
official statistics GDP growth has been strong since the early 1970s averaging
about 5% per annum (if the drought year of 1984 is excluded). However, economic
growth appears to be slowing down and estimates for 1987 indicate a 2% decline
in real GDP compared to 1986 levels. Agriculture sector management has been
zelatively non-interventionist and the good policy environment contributed to
a steady 5.82 per annuLm growth rate between 1974-1980. From 1980-83 agricultural
output growth slowed to an average annual rate of about 3.5%. Since then, it
appears to have slowed further averaging only about 2% per annum (again excluding
1984).   Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy contributing about 80% of
the total value of exports and 40% of GDP at current prices. As much as 957 of
the population lives in the rural areas. Per capita GDP (1986) is about US$ 298
of which US$ 130 is attributable to agriculture.
1.05        Although statistics on food output are questionable, food production
appears to have kept up with population growth up until 1985. In 1986 the growth
rate of the fooderop sector fell to about 3%, and the estimate for 1987 is 2%
well below the population growth rate of 3.7%. Commercial cereal imports have
increased substantially within the past twelve years from 3000 mt in 1974 to
24000 mt in 1986 partly as a result of changing tastes. Production of the main
export crops (coffee and tea) is cf vital importance as a source of foreign
exchange and rural cash income. After an extended period of growth, value added
in the export crop sector declined in 1986 as a result of falling world market
prices. Fux hermore, there have been recent adverse developments in the exchange
rate. The Rwandese franc has appreciated by about 30% relative to the carrencies
of its major trading partners and this is threatening the competitivity of
agricultural exports.  The Government also appears to be moving toward more
intervention in the setting of agricultural input prices and producer prices for
food crops. These latter have generally been in the favor of farmers, sometimes
even excessively so. So far, however, there has been little enforcement of such
prices on the market. The Government of Rwanda has a reputation for realistic
economic management and there are indicatioz.s that it is willing to adjust its
economic policies to take account of present realities and to continue its policy
of little or no enforcement of minimum prices.
1.06        The agriculture sector faces serious challenges which have an adverse
impact on the pace of agricultural output growth. The most important is the
pressure of population on scarce land reso.rces.   The country's population



density of 400 per kmn of arable land is the highest in continental Africa. As
evidence of this pressure farm size is diminishing and holdings Increasingly
fragmented. Over half the one million farm holdings are less than one hectare.
Fallow land is in limited sLpply and there is overgrazing by livestock. Farmers
have so far managed to increase overall productio;J through area expansion and
increased cropping intensities (double cropplng and intercropping) but with
limited use of modern inputs. All this poses a threat to soil fertility,and
there is indeed evidence that yields for most crops are at best stagnant. With
the possibility of increasing agricultural output through area expansion and
increased cropping intensity coming to an end, indications are that future
increases must come from productivity  gains.   To achieve this goal the
deivlopment of relevant agricultural technology and its dissemination should be
facilitated through better agricultural support services. Agricultural exten-
sion, and adaptive research are central to achieving results. The poterntial
effectiveness of these services would have to be related directly to the
provision of other ingredients required to improve farm productivity.  These
include a reliable supply of inputs and access to credit when needed. On the
output side, greater attention to markets would be required to ensure that a
greater part of the increased production is sold and cash is available for the
purchase of inputs.
C. Government's Sectoral Objectives and Strategy
1.07        The GOR has three basic objectives in the agriculture sector.  In
order of importance they are:  food self-sufficiency, development of import
substituting crops, and export diversification. The development of the foodcrop
sector has received overwhelming attention (most donor and government projects
are in this area) while export crop development has been somewhat neglected.
Government's objectives translate concretely into development priorities which
are re-articulated in the preparatory documents of the fourth five-year plan
(1989-93) as follows: (i) intensification of crop and livestock production; (ii)
soil conservation and improvements in soil fertility; (iii) improved management
and rational exploitation of the little remaining unused agricultural land; (iv)
regional specialization in production as a function of agro-ecological iotential;
(v) implementation of agricultural inrerventions within the framework of a
sectoral or crop specific approach; and (vi) progressive decentralization of the
structures for intervention to the prefecture, sous-prefecture and commune
levels. To achieve its sectoral objectives the Government has relied extensively
on donor-financed integrated rural development projects many of which have helped
carry out government programs to conserve soils, improve farming methods and
develop new crop technology. There are over 60 donor-fVaanced projects in the
agriculture sector covering more than 100 of the count- 's 143 communes. The
IRD projects have performed well in the area of soil conservation, road and
infrastructure development and this has no doubt contributed to good agricultural
sector performance. However, they have had less impact on improving crop yields,
are expensive, and are increasingly difficult for the understaffed Ministry of
Agriculture to monitor, supervise and coordinate.
1.08        Faced with the need for productivity increases, and the lack of an
effective strategy to achieve them, the GOR has since 1986 held national
brainstorming sessions to develop policies to reorient agricultural projects,
and to strengthen adaptive research, extension and inputs supply. The means for



- 4 -
reaching women more effectively through the extension system have also been
debated and discussed. An important concern has been the need to make
agricultural development a bottom-up process which reaches out and includes
farmers in problem definition and solving rather than talking down to them. This
concern is based on the recent Government decision to decentralize development
down to the communes (the level of local administration) to involve local
populations more effectively. The culmination of these debates is a series of
decisions to stress "recherche-developpement" (adaptive and on-farm research),
to reorganize extension to respond better to the needs and realities at the farm
level, to promote private sector participation in marketing of inputs and
produc-ea, and to rationalize the patchwork of donor-assisted projects by
developing a policy framework and a sustainable national structure within which
these projects could eventually be integrated. The Agricultural Services project
(ASP) would enable Government to begin Implementing this new approach.
D. IDA's Assistance and Strateav
1.09        Since 1973 IDA lending has amounted to US$ 118.3 million for ten
operations, four of which are ongoing. The operations are as follows: (a) four
area development projects in the eastern Savannah zone (US$ 42.2 million); (b)
two area development projects in the Lake Kivu and Zaire-Nile Divide zones (US$36
million); a Cinchona Development project (US$ 1.8 million); an Agricultural
Research Project (US$ 11.5 million); a pilot extension and institutional develop-
ment project--the Gitarama Agricultural Production and MINAGRI Institutional
strengthening project (US$ 12.7 million) and a second Integrated Forestry Project
(US$ 14.1 million).
1.10        Completion  reports  have  been  prepared  for  the  first  Mutara
Agricultural Development project (Cr. 439-RW), the BGM phase 1 project (Cr. 668-
RW) and the Cinchona project (Cr. 656-RW). The experience from these and other
projects highlight a number of issues affecting project performance namely: a)
the scarcity of technical messages for agricultural improvement at the farm
level; b) the complexity of Rwanda's farming systems and insufficient knowledge
of these systems; c) weak links between extension and research; d) project
complexity ano excessive diversity of project institutional and organizational
systems; el lack of experie-ced Rwandese managers and a weak technical ministry;
f) inadequate monitoring of project progress; g) inadequate attention to
operating budget implications of projects; h) unclear subsector policies and
investment priorities and poorly coordinated donor support.
The BGM II and PCCV Proiects
1.11        The BGM II and PCCV projects (Credits 1283 and 1126 RW respectively)
were conceived as multi-component area development projects focusing on extension
and, in the case of BGM II in particular, including activities in nutrition,
family planning and infrastructure (road) development. The two projects have
been successful in extending themes on erosion control (up to 80% of the PCCV
area now has erosion control devices compared to 32% before the project),
interplanting of banana trees with beans to extend area cropped, and introduction
of new crops such as soybeans. Coffee quality has improved in the PCCV area with
the introduction of better cultivation practices, construction of more pulping



centers and provision of new pulping machines.   The BGM II project has
successfully organized marketing cooperatives and instituted cost recovery for
forest nursery plants, and some veterinary products.
1.12        The principal constraint has been the paucity of adaptive and on-
farm research and this has manifested itself in the lack of new themes to extend
and the monotonous repetition of old themes.   There has also been limited
involvement of the population in problem identification, solution and follow-
up. The links between ISAR, the national agricultural research institute, and
extension have been weak. In addition, the introduction of new varieties of
improved" seeds has not been a success because of poor quality control of seeds
multiplied by the projects and the weakness of certification services. The T&V
system of extension appears to have been applied rather rigidly at the initial
stages of the projects. Contact farmers were visited rather than groups and many
people lost interest when the same farmers were visited repeatedly. Adjustments
were subsequently made in the course of project implementation.   Project
management was too centralized in Kigali and proved unworkable.   This was
resolved by decentralizing responsibility to field level staff.
The Gitarama Agricultural Production and MINAGRI Institutional Strenftthenint
Prolect
1.13        The Gitarama/MINAGRI project (Cr. 1669-RW), which became effective
in September 1986, was prepared as a vehicle to test a new approach to the
provision of agricultural services (paras. 1.02 and 1.08) before extending this
nationally. It was also designed to respond to some of the problems identified
in past and on-going Bank projects in extension. The objective of the Gitarama
Agricultural Production component is to use the Gitarama prefecture as a testing
ground for a model of agricultural extension, adaptive and on-farm research, and
private sector promotion which would be more cost-effective, replicable at the
national level and financially and institutionally sustainable.
1.14        The Gitarama extension model is essentially T&V adapted to local
social and institutional structures with an extension organization paralleling
the presenz administrative structure.   At the base is the extension agent
responsible for an average 750 families. The agent is assisted and supervised
by a commune level agricultural officer supported by other commune level
technicians essentially, a livestock officer and a forestry officer. At the
sous-prefecture level is the operational unit (Unite operationelle) charged with
implementing adaptive research, preparing extension themes, and undertaking
training of extension personnel.   At the prefecture level, the prefecture
agricultural coordinator assisted by a deputy and chief accountant is responsible
for coordination of agricultural activities in the prefecture. He reports to
the head of the Agricultural Promotion Division in MINAGRI who also doubles as
the ministry appointed project administrator or "fonctionnaire dirigeant". Under
the Gitarama model extension agents work within the framework of a rigorous time
schedule, including farm visits, training and reporting and cover all crop,
livestock and agro-forestry activities. This is an important departure from the
past when there were different agents for the different types of activities.
When fully implemented, the Gitarama model should result in a 50% reduction in
the number of basic extension agents. An important service begun by the project
is the promotion of private sector activities in agricultural input supply and
marketing.   This is accomplished with the assistance of NGOS contracted to



provide training to cooperatives and private individuals in management
techniques, and training to artisans in the manufacture of agricultural tools;
and the Banques Populaires for provision of credit and mobilization of savings.
1.15        The MINAGRI Institutional Strengthening component, implementation
of which is yet to begin, is designed to reinforce the Ministry's sector
management capability. After effectiveness, GOR indicated its wish to expand
the scope of the institutional strengthening to include all central MINAGRI
services rather than the secretariat general only as was planned in the
component. The Government also indicated its desire to seek grant funding to
substitute for IDA's participation. Negotiations have been on-going with UNDP
a co-financier in the project to finance the entire component. These are nearing
conclusion and implementation may begin by mid-1989.   IDA is awaiting GOR's
request for a reallocation of component funds.
1.16        A mid-term evaluation of the Gitarama Agricultural Production
component has recently been concluded. 1/   The new agricultural services
structure appears to have improved extension m.thodology and approach.
"Teething" problems of relationships and linkages '  hin the structure remain.
The major findings are:  (a) the apparent suitability (effectiveness) of the
agricultural, services structure compared to institutional structures of previous
extensionlagricultural services projects; (b) the success of the promotion
component in cooperative training, marketing, extension of agricultural credit,
and mobilization of rural savings; (c) the failure of the adaptive and on-farm
research component due to an unclear definition of tasks, poor coordination with
ISAR, poor linkages with extension personnel, and failure to involve farmers in
problem definition and solving. A's a result there has been a continued paucity
of new area-specific extension messages, and repetition of general extension
themes;  (d) the relative ineffectiveness of the monitoring and evaluation
component due to a lack of understanding by project staff of the objectives of
monitoring and evaluation, and a failure to adequately define the modalities for
its implementation. In addition, the extension approach is still too top down
and could clearly be further improved; some extension themes related principally
to livestock and coffee have received less than adequate attention; the use of
contact groups for extension sessions is too narrow and co0tld be broadened and
improved to include groups with like interests such as womea, young people with
little or no land, small farmers, large farmers with livestock, and local
officials should be better informed on and more clearly involved in the project.
Finally, the project's financial structure appears too centralized, the
agricultural services structure still appears too demanding in terms of vehicles
and equipment, and the distribution of higher level personnel within the
structure appears to be unbalanced.
1.17        The evaluation provides little quantitative information on farmer
participation and adoption rates largely because the monitoring and evaluation
system which should have regularly collected this information failed. Indicative
figures provided are as follows: a range of 44% - 67% of contact group chiefs
regularly attend extension sessions. For other farmers (known as volunteers)
the figures range from 15% - 98%. The difference was explained, during appraisal
1/ Project Agricole de Gitarama Evaluation i mi-terme: Document Provisoire
Novembre 1988. Note that the document summarizing the findings of the
evaluation mission is under review by MINAGRI and by IDA.



of the ASP, as being due to nearness to a town or commercial center. Groups
living near such areas had important non-farm activities and participated less
in extension sessions. Those living farther away were keen participants. The
evaluation indicates that an average 6X of the population of the project area
has been reached of which about 1% women. (It is not clear whether the 62 also
indicates adoption of themes extended.) Partial information for the Karama Uftite
Operationalle gives a further idea of participation and adoption rates. 21 The
information is preliminary and it is still too early to measure repeat adoption
rates. About 10 of the 49,760 farm families in the U.O had been reached by the
extension service in that cropping season.   Of this number 2,986 or 62
participate  actively in extension aess ions.  With regard to the adoption of
themes, about 52 of farm families adopted themes related to the planting of soil
fixing plants in anti-erosion ditches and 6X adopted the composting theme. This
seems to indicate that once families are active in extension sessions they tend
to adopt themes wholly or in part. Because there were not enough vegetable seeds
or cuttings of the popular K51 sweet potato variety to distribute, onl!* 32 of
families got the vegetable seeds and 1X the K51 cuttings. This underscores the
need to have sufficient supplies of needed inputs to back up extension training
sessions.
1.18        The Gitarama, BGM and PCCV experiences have been factored into the
preparation of the Agricultural Services project which is a key instrument in
IDA's lend'ig strategy. Attempts have been made to incorporate lessons learned
from other projects. First, emphasis will be put on the development of adaptive
and on-farm research an'd the strenztheninz of links with ISAR to tive momentum
to the development oc new messaRes and technical recommendations.   Second,
linkages within the extension structure will be better defined, extension
monitor.ng and evaluation will be better explained and emphasis will be placed
on decentralization of responsibilities to the field level.   Finally, the
successes of previous projects in cost recovery, development of cooperative
marketing, and other promotion activities will be continued and expanded.
1.19        Recent IDA financed projects in research and extension including
the proposed operation, are the outcome of a long and concerted sector dialogue
with GOR, and have benefitted from an active participation in their preparation
and supervision by MINAGRI, based on full agreement between GOR and IDA on means
to take into account the kessons learned from earlier efforts. However, the
sector dialogue has so far produced fewer results in other areas of Rwanda's
long-term agricultural strategy which are equally important. There is as yet
little discernible interest in GOR to initiate a major push to improve both
quantity and quality of existing export crops and/or to diversify into other
exports. With present fooderop production largely consumed on the farm, and with
small domestic markets, increased exports are important to generate the
additional cash income needed b,y farmers to buy the inputs required for
productivity improvement. Also, the expansion of non-farm employment in rural
areas to decongest the agricultural sector is urgently needed. These elements
of the sector dialogue, which would run parallel with discussions with GOR on
macro-economic policies, will be emphasized in the future. Also to be emphasized
is the dialogue on agricultural pricing which has been ongoing and is beginning
to yield positive results (para 2.18).
2/ Provided to the project appraisal team for the first 1988 cropping
season.



- 8 -
II.   AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
A. The Ministry of Atriculture. Livestock and Forests (MINAGRI)
2.01        With a staff of 2,500 of whom 80S are in the field, MINAGRI's mandate
is to manage the agriculture, livestock, forestry, land and water resources of
Rwanda.    The ministry  comprises  four technical  directorates  (Directions
Generales), and a secretariat (Secretariat General) (Annex 5, chart 1). The
technical directorates are: a) Agricultural Production which covers agricultural
extension,selected seeds, plant protection, food crops, industrial crops and land
distribution; b) Livestock comprising animal production and health, fisheries,
small stock, beekeeping; c) Forestry covering natural forest protection and
management, communal forestry, agro-forestry, industrial forestry, reforestation;
d) Rural Engineering and Soil Conservation comprising irrigation, farm tools and
mechanization, topography and soil analysis, erosion control and soil
conservation.   The Secretariat General is responsible for coordination and
supervision of the technical directorates, monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural projects, sector studies and planning, ministry management and
administration. MINAGRI is also the supervising ministry for several services
and parastatals namely the Selected Seed Service (SSS), the Agricultural Surveyi
and Statistics Service (Service des Enquetes et Statistiques Agricoles SESA),
several agricultural training centers, and four parastatals in charge of coffee
(OCIR-Cafe), foodcrop and livestock marketing (OPROVIA), development of the
Mutara region (OVAPAM), and national agricultural research (ISAR).
2.02        MINAGRI faces several constraints the most important of which is
the insufficiency of trained and qualified staff. The most important gaps are
in sector planning and studies, financial-and economic analysis, policy analysis,
project monitoring and evaluation, and sector management. At the technical level
the need for foresters is acute. As a result of the inadequacy of trained staff
sector analysis is weak, and investment planning, programming and budgeting is
inadequate. This is compounded by the overall inadequacy of Rwanda's budgetary
process. Monitoring and evaluation of donor-financed projects is very weak.
MINAGRI has little idea of how much is spent in these projects or of the impact
of expenditures on agricultural production and incomes. Compounding MINAGRI's
problems are the present inadequate physical facilities, office equipment and
logistical support.
2.03        MINAGRI has lecome increasingly aware of its shortcomings and is
taking steps to remedy the situation. However, it needs the support of crucial
ministries such as the Presidency and Finance. After the initial set back with
the institutional strengthening component of Cr. 1669-RW (para. 1.15) there is
a possibility that implementation will begin in mid-1989 with UNDP assistance.
Negotiations are still on-going between UNDP and MINAGRI. The objective will
be to reinforce the Ministry's planning and investment preparation capability
as well as its monitoring and evaluation capacity.  This will enable better
coordination and use of external aid.   Additional in-country and external
training is high on the list of the ministry's priorities and more than 200 donor
financed scholarships are expected for the 1988-92 period. Furthermore, as part
of a general public service restructuring planned by the Government, MINAGRI has
drawn up a new organigramme which proposes to create (among others) a planning
directorate and within it an agro-economy division giving new emphasis to



economic and financial aspects of sector management, and a directorate of
extension, which would eventually supervise the implementation of the new
national extension and adaptive research approach. The organigramme emphasizes
planning, policy formulation, coordination and supervision as functions for the
central level ministry which is to be kept light in terms of personnel and
equipment with responsibilities for implementation decentralized to the field
level and drawing on private sector services where available. The organigramme
is under review at the Presidency which has held preliminary discussions with
MINAGRI on its contents. Indications are that MINAGRI's proposals imply more
far-reaching changes than those of other ministries and will therefore require
time for debate, consensus building and implementation.   In the interim the
Presidency has approved the creation, wLthin the Agricultural Pxoduction
Directorate, of an Adaptive and On-farm research unit to coordinate and supervise
activities in this area.
B.   Research
2.04        The Institute of Agronomic Sciences of Rwanda (ISAR) is responsible
for agriculture and livestock research. ISAR was supported mainly by Belgian
aid up until 1981. It has traditionally concentrated on improving husbandry
standards for industrial crops, and introducing and testing new varieties of food
crops (maize, sweet potato, irish potato and beans). Research has in general
been conducted in isolation of small farmer problems and farming systems, and
this may have contributed to the limited number of attractive technical
recommendations available for extension to the farmer. Coordination with the
extension services has been weak and there has been some confusion between
extension and research about the modalities for carrying out adaptive and on-
farm research. The Belgians withdrew support in 1981, and as a result ISAR's
activities were considerably reduced. The IDA financed Agricultural Research
Project helped to remedy this situation. Its main objectives are to reinforce
research programming, budgeting and financial management, reorganize ISAR and
rehabilitate some of its research stations, prepare a research master plan and,
in general, redirect research to become more problem oriented focusing on
national priorities in agriculture.
2.05        Encouraging progress has been made in the reorganization of ISAR
and the recruitment of higher level staff. Overall implementation is, however,
slow because of remaining administrative weaknesses and scarcities in local
specialist expertise.  There are important gaps in the research program with
i         inadequate attention to research areas such as fertilizer trials, banana, coffee
and tea research.  The links between extension and research are still weak and
research findings still fail to get transmitted to extension. Attempts have been
i        made during the course of supervision to refocus research priorities and there
is some progress in this area. Findings related to disease control in the banana
*         tree, soil fertility improvement through agro-forestry species, and new varieties
of soybeans, sweet potato and beans are likely to be available soon for field
and on-farm testing and eventual transmission to the farmer. The creation of
an adaptive research unit in MINAGRI (para. 2.03) and the subsequent support for
a field service that will implement adaptive research and on-farm trials through
the Agricultural Services project will help institutionalize links between
extension and research and speed up field trials.



- 10 -
C. Extension
Structure
2.06        Extension services In Rwanda are provided by donor-financed projects,
agricultural parastatals such as OCIR-Cafe and OCIR-The (the coffee and tea
organizations), and in the absence of these, by MINAGRI's own services. After
years of diverse interventions by agricultural projects MINAGRI in 1982
established a National Extension System (Syeteme National de Vulgarisation -
SNV). The objective of SNV was, among others, to train and extend messages to
at least 1,000 farmers per commune, to associate farmers closely in
identification and solution of farm-level problems, to involve local officials
in extension activities through the establishment of commissions, to establish
work programs for extension agents, and to monitor and reorient, as necessary,
extension. activities. The SNV did not work very well for several reasons, the
most important of which is the absence of prior planning and analysis of how such
a system would function and what means would be required to implement it.
Interventions in extension have therefore continued to be varied according to
funding source. As a result of the SNV, however, a basic extension structure
was established along administrative lines. In the field, it consists of, at
the prefecture level, an agronomist, veterinarian, and, depending on the
Importance of forestry in the area, a forester. The prefecture level staff
supervise commune level agronomists, veterinarians and foresters of which there
are, in prin_iple, one per commune. There are an average of fourteen communes
per prefecture. The commune agronomist supervises sector-level extension agents.
There is on average one extension agent for each of the eleven sectors in a
commune.  In principle, there are also veterinary aides at the sector level
supervised by the commune veterinarian. Total staff available in the field for
extension amounts to 68 agronomists with some post-secondary education, and 2,075
basic extension agents. Based on the present structure, if all sectors were to
be covered by basic extension agents (including veterinary aides), a minimum of
3,146 agents would be needed. If the Gitarama/Agricultural Services model is
extended nationwide, only about 1573 basic extension agents will be iequired.
Additional agents may have to be recruited where livestock, forestry and bee-
keeping activities are important.
2.07        There is, at present, a great deal of variation among communes and
sectors in terms of coverage by the extension structure. Where there are donor-
financed projects staffing is good and sometimes excessive, and vehicles and
equipment  are  available.    Oftentimes,  the basic  extension  structure  is
considerably modified (sometimes out of recognition) to suit the purposes of
the project. As a result, there are as many extension services as there are
projects. There are also many inequities in the existing extension services.
Staff working for donor-financed projects or parastatals are better paid and
equipped while those recruited by MINAGRI or the communes are less well paid,
poorly equipped and trained.
Methodology and Content
2.08        Methodologies for extension are varied.   Some of the extension
services use some form or other of T&V for delivery of extension messages.
There is a wide variation in approach and very little monitoring and evaluation



- 11 -
and thus, the impact of extension in many projects is difficult to assess. With
regard to extension content, H1NAGRI issues yearly directives focussing on a
specific priority (year of the tree, year of agriculture-livestock association,
of erosion control etc.). These directives are backed by a national campaign
in which the political and administrative structure ls active and usually include
a number of general themes such as reforestation, stall feeding of animals,
composting and so on. The directives are given to the prefecture level staff
who pass them on to the field staff for transmittal to farmers. The whole system
is very hierarchical and agricultural staff and farmers are legally obliged to
adhere to the directives.  There has been a measure of success in extending
particular MINAGRI themes such as tree planting, erosion control, marsh
cultivation,and coffee improvements. Centrally designed extension themes are
however often ill adapted to the different farm conditions and agro-ecological
regions.   The Agricultural Services Project will seek to generate extension
themes from the field level and to better adapt central themes to local
conditions.
Donor-Financed Proiects
2.09        Agriculture attracts a great deal of donor financing, about 50% in
grants, and many of the 60 odd externally assisted projects have extension
components. The most important donors in extension are IDA, Belgian, German,
French, Swiss and Canadian aid, the European Development Fund, IFAD and UNDPIFAO
(IBRD map 21406). In the past, extension and in general agricultural development
projects have largely been donor-driven. The approaches to extension among these
projects is varied (paras 2.07 and 2.08). Some are clearly top-heavy in terms
of personnel, vehicles and equipment and will be difficult to sustain.  The
impact of the projects is not well known and MINAGRI is finding their
coordination increasingly difficult.   The Agricultural Services Project is
designed to help Government establish a structure within which the numerous
projects can eventually be integrated. Through a series of seminars and
discussions with donors, MINAGRI has outlined the manner in which it wishes the
projects to fit into the proposed structure (Annex 2, Table 3). Basically, when
present donor extension projects end, financing in the next phase is supposed
to be directed to support for the proposed national structure.
2.10        In theory most donors support the n. w approach and welcome the
development of an organizing framework for extension and adaptive research. In
practice, however, there is still confusion about how integration will actually
work and some hesitation about the proposed structure. Reactions range from very
supportive to skeptical. The Canadian and Swiss aid have already realigned some
aspects of their projects to the new approach. French and German aid appear
willing to do the same.  Some of the others want more time to evaluate the
Gitarama experience and watch the outcome of the Agricultural Services project
before committing themselves. Despite the range of reactions there is a general
willingness to give MINAGRI's new approach a chance and the ministry is confident
of the goodwill and eventual support of all the donors.  IDA has stepped up its
dialogue with the donors to explain the proposed Agricultural Services approach.
This is providing needed support to MINAGRI.



- 12 -
D.   Agricultural Inputs
2.11        There is very little use of modern farm inputs in Rwanda.   The
exceptions are the use of some fertilizer and insecticides on potatoes,
insecticides on coffee, and some veterinary products. Fertilizer consumption,
at 1,400 grams of plant nutrient per hectare of arable land, is among the lowest
in subsaharan Africa. The limited use of modern inputs is due both to the low
level of farmer cash income and the lack of knowledge on supply response unde:-
farm conditions. The benefits of chemical fertilizer are still largely unproven.
Few fertilizer trials are considered valid enough to be generalizable. Clearly,
this is an area for the immediate attention of the research and extension
services. The Danish/FAO financed National Fertilizer project is conducting
fertilizer research and has released some recommendations relative to the use
of NPK, DAP, and urea on maize, potatoes, sorghum, groundntts and other food
crops. !!ore field and on-farm trials are needed. Farm inputs are imported by
a few private merchants in Kigali, by OCIR the and OCIR Cafe, by donor assisted
projects (much of it in grant aid), and by a large cooperative organization
TRAFIPRO. Fertilizer pricing policy is confused. In principle, MINAGRI requests
projects to sell fertilizer to farmers at cost (i.e. CIF Kigali). Most projects
that sell directly to farmers comply, although, this leaves little or no margin
to cover retail costs. Some projects sell the fertilizer to private retailers
who are permitted to add a margin (usually 5% - 10%) to cover costs. In some
cases, fertilizer has been given free to farmers by NGOS. Such a situation may
make it more difficult to encourage private sector participation in input supply.
MINAGRI is aware of these anomalies and plans to review fertilizer pricing policy
in 1989 with a view to harmonizing the different approaches.   During the
appraisal of the ASP MINAGRI agreed to the principle of recovering costs
(including retail costs) for fertilizer where there is effective demand. At the
proiect mid-term review (para. 4.07) GOR and IDA will review the impact of
fertilizer use on crop yields in the project area, and will, further, evaluate
fertilizer pricint policy with a view to improving cost recovery including
recovery of retail margins. At negotiations assurances were obtained to this
effect.
2.12        The quality of selected seed supplied to most farmers is poor. There
are few varieties superior in performance to farmers' seeds and therefore demand
is limited. Rwanda's seed industry is at an early stage of development, and thus
far, private sector interest or participation in the industry has been limited.
Some elements of a seed production and certification structure are in place but
function in an uncoordinated and confused manner. Other elements, such as seed
legislation have, until recently, been missing. A National Seeds Committee (NSC)
exists but rarely meets.  Its mandate is to monitor the enforcement of seed
regulation, approve release of new varieties, review national seed requirements
and promote distribution of improved seed. ISAR's mandate is to produce pre-
base seed to be sold to the Selected Seed Service (SSS) for production of base
seed. Development projects and private entrepreneurs are to produce certified
seed. A division of the SSS is charged with seed certification. In practice,
ISAR produces not only pre-base seed but also base and certified seed (the latter
certified by itself). SSS produces both base and certified seed. Seeds produced
by the development projects are not certified because:   a) SSS has limited
capacity to perform this function and b) the certification function is not backed
up by any legislation. Other problems of seed production are its relatively high
cost due to small scattered uneconomic fields, and the low sale price for some



- 13 -
types of seed resulting in inadequate cost recovery and in some instances
diversion of seed to consumption. Of recent, there have been some encouraging
developments in the seed industry which should facilitate the production of good
quality seed. The FAO has financed a well-equipped laboratory to be used for
seed certification.   With FAO assistance, the Government has prepared seed
legislation which is presently under examination at the Ministry of Justice.
The legislation is an important step in the development of the seed industry.
It sets out clearly the role of each actor in the industry.  The NSC is to
maintain its policy and review role including advising the Government on seed
policy and setting guidelines for seed prices.   SSS is to be the main
implementing body for seed policy. It will: a) serve as the secretariat to the
NSC, b) in cooperation with ISAR develop and maintain a catalogue of varieties
that can be multiplied, c) develop technical criteria to guide seed production
and facilitate certification.  These criteria will be submitted to the NSC for
approval; d) through its certification division maintain its certification
function; and, through the production division, produce base and certified seed.
Development projects and private individuals can produce certified seed provided
they are registered with the SSS and submit to its certification requirements.
As the industry develops, SSS is expected to pull out of production, leaving this
to the private sector, and focus on certification. ISAR is to be responsible
for the production of pre-base seed and for maintaining the characteristics of
varieties published in the seed catalogue. The legislation empowers MINAGRI to
publish decrees to guide seed production based on technical proposals made by
SSS and approved by the NSC.
E.   Atricultural Ctedit and Finance
2.13        Rwanda's financial rystem consists of the central bank (BNR), three
commercial banks, a network of cooperative banks (Banques Populaires), a Savings
Association (Caisse d'Epargne du Rwanda), a mortgage bank (Caisse Hypothecaire),
and a development bank (Banque Rwandaise de Developpement BRD).   The BNR
supervises Government owned financial institutions, regulates equity investments
by banks and exposure to any single enterprise. The financial system is highly
specialized. Unless authorized by the BNR, commercial banks may not engage in
long-term lending (more than four years) because of the short term nature of bank
resources.   The BRD and the Caisse Hypothecaire are the long-term lending
institutions. Commercial banks have very little exposure in the rural sector
and are mainly active in import and export financing and overdrafts to local
companies.
2.14        The Union des Banques Populaires (UBP), set up with the assistance
of Swiss aid, is Rwanda's dominant rural banking establishment. The cooperative
bank union has a network of over 100 rural branches with an expansion rate of
five to ten new branches a year. Financial management is conservative and sound,
and the bank holds about 23% of national savings and 4% of the total national
credit outstanding. Most rural loans are for housing and short-term commercial
operations and are generally very small--less than US $500. The UBP is eager
to expand lending to agriculture and has cooperated in the Gitarama project to
make loans to farmers. The experience has been gratifying for both the farmers
and the Bank. Loan recovery has been high--more than 80%. Continued cooperation
with the UBP is expected under the proposed Agricultural Services Project.



- 14 -
Government Funding of AMriculture
2.15        Government funding of agriculture has averaged ITS $16 million in the
past four years (Annex 2, Table 4). About 56% of this has gone to the operating
budget and the balance to the development budget. This distinction, however,
underestimates the funding of operating costs since the development budget also
contains some recurrent expenditures in the form of counterpart financing for
externally funded projects. Usually, recurrent cost items of a permanent nature,
e.g. personnel, are financed under the operating budget. Agriculture's share
in the overall budget has remained fairly constant in the past five years at
about 5% of the operating budget and 16% of the development budget.   Other
contributions to agriculture come from the communes through locally raised taxes.
The amount is difficult to quantify but is not thought to be very high and is
variable from commune to commune depending on whether or not an externally funded
project operates in the commune.   Local financing is mostly in the form of
payment of some field level staff such as basic extension agents. A significant
contribution comes from the use of collective labor known as umupanda organized
by the communes. Umuganda is used for a variety of tasks such as the digging
of erosion control ditches, tree planting, establishment of tree nurseries,
maintenance of communal forest plantations, and road maintenance. The amount
of the contribution to agriculture is difficult to quantify, however, it has been
estimated that up to 50% of the cost of establishing tree nurseries cc-,es from
umuganda. On a national level, total contributions from umuganda were estimated
at a sizeable RF 1.44 billion (US $14 million) in 1985. 31 In the Gitarama
project, the use of umuganda for some of the agricultural tasks, e.g. nursery
establishment, has been formalized in a contract between the communes and the
project.
2.16        The Government has been very effective in attracting external aid
to the agriculture sector. An estimated US$ 39 million or about 22% of total
official development assistance to Rwanda went to agriculture in 1985. For 1986
the figure is US$ 45 million.   This is more than double Government's own
financing and constituted 73Z of total funding for agriculture in that year.
About 30% of external aid in 1986 was food aid.  A great deal of external
assistance is given in the form of technical experts a phenomenon which MINAGRI
is eager to change.  There are an estimated 177 technical assistants in the
agriculture sector compared to 122 cadres at the central level of MINAGRI. Non-
Governmental organizations are becoming increasingly important. Although figures
on recent contributions are not available, they are thought to have contributed
up to US$ 700,000 in 1983.   The importance of donor financing has led to
questions about the future sustainability of investments. Despite the likelihood
of continued external support, the Government is worrying about its ability to
sustain recurrent costs if a donor withdraws. As a result, the operating cost
implications of projects are receiving more attention. In this regard, GOR has
just initiated a Public Expenditure Review with IDA assistance.  There is a
better awareness of the need for cost recovery and reduction of subsidies.
Although progress on this front is still slow some recovery of costs is taking
place. Some veterinary products and services are sold to farmers at cost, And
the subsidy on tree seedlings is being reduced through umuganda ;:ontributions.
In addition, there is a move to attract the private sector to take over some of
3/ World Bank, Rwanda: The Role of the Communes in Soclo-economic
Development 1987.



- 15 -
the services to reduce Government's exposure. These initiatives will be fully
supgorted as part of the proposed proiect.
P.   Markets and Prices
2.17        With increased intensification, the expansion of local,  inter-
regional and external markets will become important. Except for export crops
which are handled both by Government and private concerns, the marketing system
in Rwanda remains largely undeveloped. The main constraints are: low purchasing
power of the population; the lack of entrepreneurs and managers; lack of credit;
an inward looking (subsistence oriented) orientation both by farmers and
Government.   A fairly good network of national and secondary roads exists.
However, some areas are still enclaves where rural road development and
maintenance is a top priority. Fooderop marketing is largely in the hands of
the private sector. A Government parastatal OPROVIA intervenes from time-to-
tlme to stabilize prices through crop purchases.
2.18        Agricultural price policy used to be the domain of the Ministry of
Finance. Recently, a new Ministry of Commerce and Consump'ion has been created
which in consultation with MINAGRI and other ministries will oversee issues of
pricing and marketing.   The lack of economic and financial staff in MINAGRI
means that its input is limited in an area in which it should in fact be the
principal actor. There is  io official consensus on what the extent of Government
involvement  in agricultural pricing should be.   In practice,  Government
interventions have been limited to setting seasonally adjusted minimum producer
prices for fooderops and retail prices for fertilizer, insecticides and some
veterinary products but paying little attention to their enforcement. Export
crop prices are set and have, in general, been favorable to farmers. Since 1987
there has been an increasing tendency for Government to insist that projects,
and in some cases cooperatives pay minimum producer prices (particularly when
these are bigher and therefore more favorable to farmers than market prices).
Furthermore, retail prices for fertilizer are such that retailers find it
difficult to cover costs (para. 2.11). Through the Second Integrated Forestry
project (Cr. 1811-RW), the Gitarama project and the proposed project there has
been a continuing and difficult dialogue between IDA and Government on
agricultural pricing.   The inherent contradiction in wishing to encourage
increased private sector activity in the marketing of inputs, for example, when
marketing margins are unfavorable have been pointed out. Opinions are changing.
Recent (February 1989) discussions with the ministries of Commerce and of
Agriculture indicate that the minimum producer prices regularly published by the
Ministry of Finance, and to be continued by the Commerce Ministry, are to be
considered as reference prices.   There is also a move to review fertilizer
pricing policy, to harmonize approaches and improve cost recovery (para. 2.11).
G.  Cooperatives and Farmer Groups
2.19        There are an estimated 3,240 registered cooperatives and farmer
groups in Rwanda. Most have less than 50 members. In addition, informal groups
(including farmer groups) have been estimated at 30,000. The cooperative and
mutual help movement is strong in Rwanda and is an important ingredient of local



- 16 -
communities.   The activities of cooperative groups are diverse.   Some are
involved in farming--land preparation and sowing, others in marketing,
processing, savings and credit. The Directorate for Cooperatives in the Ministry
of Youth and Cooperatives provides support through its front line agents at the
commune level. Donors are also active in this area. The Cooperative Research
and Training Center (CFRC-IWACU), which is an NGO, is supported by USAID and
Swiss aid.   It has become an important training and research organization
focusing on economic, social and management aspects of cooperative development.
IWACU and a Belgian supported NGO the Compagnons Batisseurs COOPIBO, were
contracted to provide management and organizational training and consultancy
services to cooperatives under the Gitarama project. A federation of artisans
KORA (meaning 'to work") was also contracted to provide training in the
manufacture of agricultural tools to artisans in Gitarama. These activities in
cooperative development are Also envisaged in the proposed project.
III.  THE PROJECT
A.   Rationale
3.01        Improving agricultural performance in Rwanda requires:   a) the
strengthening of essential agricultural services and their development on a
sustainable basis; b) the expansion of markets with increased private sector
participation in marketing;  and c)  an enabling policy environment.   The
Government has shown a willingness to create the appropriate conditions for
agricultural development and IDA has provided assistance through the Agricultural
Research Project (Cr. 1546-RW) and the Gitarama project (Cr. 1669-RW).  The
proposed project would be a further instrument to implement Government's strategy
to increase productivity and output in the agricultural sector.
B.   Summary Project Description
3.02        The project would include:
(a)   reorganization and streamlining of the extension services in
all or parts of five prefectures including the implementation
of a new structure integrating extension, adaptive research,
and monitoring and evaluation; upgrading of extension staff
through training; and ftprovements in extension methodology
and content. The Gitaraxa extension and agricultural services
model would provide the basis for the reorganization but with
modifications related to the streamlining of personnel at
certain levels of the structure and reductions in the number
of vehicles; strengthening of the role of management
information systems; and improvements in the links between
research and extension.
(b)   strengthening of adaptive and on-farm research through better
diagnosis of problems at the farm level and inclusion of



- 17 -
farmers and local authorities, in a participative manner, in
problem identification and solution; implementation of on-farm
and multi-local trials of new techniques and technologies
provided by research and addressing farmers' priority problems .
(c)   support   for  monitoring   and  evaluation  through   the
implemertation of a decentralized management information system
in which extension staff at all levels would participate in
monitoring and evaluation activities as part of their regular
work program; sensitization and intensive training of staff
in monitoring and evaluation (M&E); development of key
indicators by technical staff for monitoring the  internal
functioning of the agricultural services, and the impact of
extension; regular reviews (evaluations) by technical staff
supplemented by more detailed outside evaluations as needed.
(d)   strengthening of seed production and distribution through
support to the SSS to improve seed quality control and
certification, reactivation of the National Seed Committee for
supervision of seed regulation, improved pricing policy for
seeds, a_.d rationalization of seed production including
improved management of ex-BGM/PCCV project seed farms and
support for the development of a multi-purpose farm for seed
multiplication and adaptive research trials. The farm would
serve as a center to encourage and develop the practice of
contracting   small   farmers   as  out-growers   for   seed
multiplication purposes.
(e)   promotion of private sector participation in input supply and
marketing through assistance to cooperatives and private
enterprises to procure inputs, obtain credit and improve
enterprise management. NGOS and the Banques Populaire would
be contracted to provide the needed services.
C.  Geozraphical Coverae
3.03        The project would be implemented in the five prefectures of Kigali,
Kibuye, Kibungo, Gisenyi and Cyangugu covering 50% of the national territory 41
IBRD map 21291. Direct project activities would be implemented in seven sous-
prefectures (three of which are yet to be created), covering twenty-two communes
and comprising 239 sectors (Annex 3, Table 8). The total population of these
communes is about 840,000 (168,000 families) or 14% of the national population.
The communes cover an area of about 5900 km2 (23% of national area) located
principally in the north west, south west and east of the country. They can be
4!       The prefecture level teams to be financed under the project, will
coordinate and supervise prefecture wide agricultural activities
including those of other donors. In this sense, the project
covers all 70 communes in the five prefectures or a total of about
570,000 farm families.



- 18 -
represented by three agro-ecological zones vizt   Lake Kivu shores in the
northwest (former PCCV project area) with elevations of 1450 - 2200m and fertile
volcanic and semi-fertile ferrisoils. Farm fragmentation is far advanced here
and over 50-70% of holdings in this area are less than 1 ha; Imbo in' the
southwest--this is the lowest elevetion in the country 900m, with good rainfall
and fairly fertile soils. Holdings ate becoming increasingly smaller with about
22% less than 0.5 ha according to the 1984 agricultural census, (there is no
donor financed project in this area); Bugesera-Gisaka to the east--this is an
area of recent settlement assisted under the BGM I and II projects with fairly
poor sandy soils, low and erratic tainfall, and relatively low elevations 1300-
1500m. Large farms are necessary to meet subsistence and other needs and up to
70% of the farms have 2 ha or more.
3.04        The principal fooderops in the three agro-ecological regions are
bananas, beans, maize, sweet potato, and sorghum. Manioc and groundnuts are
important in Imbo and Bugesera-Gisaka. Soybeans is an emerging crop in all three
areas. Coffee is the main cash crop and particularly important in Inbo and Lake
Kivu Shores (Bord Lac Kivu or BLK).  Up to 60% of families own small stock
principally goats. About 11% of farms have cows in the Bugesera and BLK zones.
D.   Detailed Features
Extension Structure
3.05        The project would finance a field service structure that parallels
the administrative organization, as in Gitarama. 5/  Its f1nctions would be
extension delivery, implementation of adaptive and on-farm research, and
monitoring and evaluation of the functioning and impact of the agricultural
services to permit modifications and improvements when required. As such, the
structure should be regarded as flexible. Since it is new and there are some
functions not previously performed under existing services, some incremental
personnel would be required, particularly at the post secondary level (Annex 2,
Table 1). On the other hand, there would be reductions of personnel in some
functions and redistribution from over staffed to understaffed areas. At the
base of the structure would be the basic extension agent of which there would
be one per sector (approximately one per 750 families) except in some very large
sectors or those with difficult terrain where there would be two. A total of
248 basic extension agents (BEAs) (down from 310 at present) would cover the 239
sectors in the project. Of the 310 agents, 74 are presently financed by MINAGRI
through its operating budget, 62 are financed by OCIR cafe, 61 by the communes,
and the rest by the BGM and PCCV projects resulting in differing conditions of
service (para. 2.07). The financing of the BEAs would be harmonized under the
proposed project by including them in the MINAGRI budget to assure fairness and
sustainability.   Of the 248 BEAs, 91 would be financed under the operating
budget. The remaining 157 would be covered under the development budget for a
period of three years after which they would also be transferred to the operating
budget. Similar arrangements would pertain to other personnel. The three year
period is judged necessary to allow the Ministry of Finance time to make
5/ A description of tasks within the structure and details of the technical
aspects of the project are contained in the Working Papers in Volume 2.



- 19 -
adjustments in its operating budget procedures. Adjustments will also have to
include allocations for other operating costs to be financed by MINAGRI under
the project (para. 3.40). Assurances were obtained on these arrangements at
negotiations. Contributions made by the communes would be channeled to other
project activities of a more temporary nature such as establishment and
maintenance of forest nurseries. The project would finance 171 motorcycles for
BEAs working in the hilly west of the country and 77 bicycles for those in the
east. Motorcycles and bicycles would be provided on credit. Rep&yment amounts
calculated on the basis of replacement value would be paid to MINAGRI under loan
agrealments satisfactory to IDA. The money would be deposited in an account to
be managed by MINAGRI and used to purchase new vehlales as required. Assurances
were obtained on this at   negotiations.   In line with present practice,
transportation allowances would be paid to cover vehicle maintenance. With the
proposed project, staff salaries and allowances for personnel in the structure
would be harmonised. This will result in increases for some staff. For example,
salaries of BEAs not previously working in donor financed projects would increase
by 8% while salaries of A3 officers under the BGM II and PCCV projects would go
up by about 10%. Salaries of some higher level personnel (AO staff) in the BGM
II and PCCV projects would decrease by about 15% due to a reduction in allowances
paid over the basic salaries. The number of people affected by the reductions
is small. MINAGRI has agreed to proceed with the salary harmonization, and
intends to extend the salary and allowance grid gradually to all agricultural
services personnel countrywide.
3.06        At the commune level there would be a team of technicians made up
of middle level post secondary but pre-university personnel of A2 level
comprising a communal coordinator, an agricultural officer, a livestock officer,
and an officer in charge of forestry services.   The agricultural officer
supported by the livestock and forestry officers would supervise and assist the
BEAs and provide them with technical advice.   The commune team would be
answerable to the U.O coordinator who together with his team would provide them
training, and assistance in programming and planning (para. 3.07).  Where there
is  a  lot  of  forestry  activity  (communal  plantations,  agro-foreatry,
reforestation), the forestry officer could be assisted by up to two forestry
monitors to supervise cutting, replanting and payment of tariffs in line with
the new forestry law.   Such monitors should eventually be paid through the
revenues collected by tree sales. The Forestry Directorate fully agrees with
this principle and will implement it in the communes once the forestry law
becomes operational. Also, in communes where there is a large number of
livestock, the livestock officer would be assisted by up to two veterinarians
for animal health care and training of livestock owners to take over some of the
veterinary services. As livestock owners become trained, the need for additional
veterinarians should diminish and they should be let go. Since MINAGRI wishes
to encourage bee-keeping for increased production of honey, an agent specialized
in this area would be provided in those communes where there is an interest. The
project would finance the construction of some offices and storage space (for
inputs) in 17 communes, the necessary office equipment and materials, incremental
staff, and vehicles (motorcycles and bicycles).
3.07        The "Unite Operationnelle"  (Operational Unit or U.O) is a very
important part of the new structure, begun and tested in the Gitarama project,
and a new concept in extension and adaptive research. The U.0 is to be based
at the sous-prefecture level. It will be staffed by subject matter specialists
(SMS) responsible for training of extension personnel, conception of area-



- 20 -
specific extension themes, continued dialogue with research and participation
in the definition of areas for adaptive research, provision of technical advice
to the commune team and the BEAs, and definition of issues for further follow-
up through monitoring and evaluation.   The U.0 team will consist of an AO
(university trained) coordinator who, in addition to administrative tasks, will
be the primary analyst in the team, an experienced A2 officer for agriculture
and one for livestock. Selection of U.0 staff will be done with great care to
ensure that the officers have long-term field experience, and possess the
analytical capability to perform the required tasks. The team is expected to
spend about 1/3 of its time on training for which they will receive assistance
from the prefecture level training speciallst, 1/3 on research, and the rest on
the remaining tasks. The number of BEAs per U.0 team will range from 33-55.
The team will be answerable to the prefecture agricultural coordinator. The
project will finance a pick-up van and four motorcycles per team, the
consl4ruction of offices, houses, and a few training rooms in five of the seven
U. Os where such infrastructure is lacking, and office equipment, furniture and
material.   Houses would be rented to personnel for an amount sufficient to
maintain such housing but in any event no less than 1%, on an annual basis, of
the investment costs for such housing. Rent would be collected by MINAGRI on
the basis of lease agreements satisfactory to IDA and would be deposited into
an account managed by MINAGRI for said maintenance purposes.   Prefecture
coordinators would make requests to MINAGRI for maintenance funds as needed.
Assurances were obtained on this at negotiations.
3.08        The staffing and equipment of the U. Os would be scaled down from
that in Gitarama leading to some small savings. Instead of a core team of seven
with four cars, there would be four staff with one pick-up van and four
motorcycles, (Annex 2, Table 5). In view of the scarcity of university trained
personnel they would be carefully distributed to strategic places within the
structure.   The proposed reductions at the U. 0 level in the Agricultural
Services Project has led to suggestions to reduce vehicles in Gitarama initially
from four to two. More importantly, the number of university trained personnel
per U. 0 is likely to be reduced from three to one so they can be redistributed
to other places where they are needed in the project.
3.09        The prefecture level team will be responsible for coordination and
supervision of project activities as well coordination of all agricultural
activities in the prefecture. It is expected that this supervisory team (acting
as a common denominator for all prefecture agricultural activities) will be a
force for the gradual integration of donor extension and adaptive research
projects into the new structure.   The team will comprise an AO Prefecture
Agriculture Coordinator whose duties will be mainly administrative, assisted by
an AO technical officer responsible for coordination of adaptive and on-farm
research and monitoring and evaluation. The latter officer will be responsible
for assuring that the linkages between research, extension and monitoring and
evaluation are kept at the forefront and maintained through the structure. Since
training will be an important feature of the agricultural services (para. 3.36),
an AO specialist in training will also be part of the team. He will assist and
supervise trainers at the U. 0.  An AO forester will supervise prefecture
forestry activities. In Kirehe, Kanazi and Bugumya, three sous-prefectures where
forest activities are very important, the forester will be based in the U. 0.
An experienced A2 accountant will maintain prefecture project accounts and
supervise the other local level accountants in the structure. The team will
have one pick-up van and four motorcycles. The project will finance incremental



- 21 -
personnel (such as the AO asssistant to the coordinator and the training
specialists), some construction of offices, training and storage rooms, and
houses particularly in the prefectures of Cyangugu and Gisenyl where these are
lacking. Vehicles, equipment and furniture will also be financed. Although
the five prefecture coordinators already exist their formal appointment in the
new structure is a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.10        Overall supervision of the structure and coordination of all
prefectures will be carried out by a light team at the central MINAGRI level.
This is in line with the project's philosophy to avoid a top-heavy structure and
to emphasize field level activities. It also supports the Government's policy
to decentralize responsibility to the local levels. The team will be an integral
part of MINAGRI and will consist of an AO "fonctionnaire dirigeant" (higher iavel
cadre appointed to administer the project), assisted by an experienced AO
research officer, possibly on secondment from ISAR, who will serve as the main
resource person for adaptive research and the primary link with the basic
research structure (ISAR).   This officer will be part of the new adaptive
research unit to be created in the Agricultural Production Directorate of MINAGRI
(para. 2.03).   A total of nine man-months of technical assistance will be
provided to assist the fonctionnaire dirigeant (FD) with the start up and
implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system including a mid-term
project review. A financial officer will be recruited for three years to set
up and manage accounts for the agricultural services and train accounting
personnel.   He will be assisted by an AO chief accountant, and an A1/A2
accountant.   The team will have three cars.  Documentation, publication and
information dissemination services will be needed.  MINAGRI has indicated that
this will be provided by their documentation service which is to strengthened
under the proposed UNDP financed MINAGRI Institution Building project. About
US$ 6,000 will, however, be provided under the project to assist with information
collection and dissemination.  Ihe project will finance office furnitu v and
equipment including a portable computer for financial and other analyses.
Appointment of the FD, and recruitment of the financial and adaptive research
officers are conditions of credit effectiveness.
Methodoloat and Content of Extension
3.11        The extension system will be essentially T&V modified to reflect
local institutions and structures. Extension agents will work within a time
schedule consisting of a two-weekly cycle of farm visits, training and reporting.
Emphasis will be put on contact groups with the principle of trying to reach all
interested farm families through these groups.  At the start of the projec.:
farmers will be consulted as to what type of contact groups would be most
appropriate in their area.  Existing groups, created for other purposes but
suitable for extension, could be used.  Examples are the "Centre Communal de
Developpement et de Formation Permanente" CCDFP groups (Communal Development and
permanent training centers groups) formed by the Ministry of the Interior to
facilitate training of rural people in differ'.'nt areas and skills; informal
groups formed by farmers themselves for agriculture or related purposes. Some
of these groups consist of or are formed by women. As part of the project's
objective of increasing the outreach to women farmers these groups will receive
special attention. Actions designed to improve delivery of extension services
to women farmers are described in paras. 3.33 - 3.35. Where there are no groups,
local people will be consulted on the possibility of forming groups based on



- 22 -
geographical zones or topology of farms. Group sessions will be held at farmers
compounds or farms in turn, and groups visits will be alternated with individual
visits every two weeks.   Extension agents will demonstrate new ideas or
techniques on small plots (parts of farmers' fields) and other farmers will then
be encouraged to try these ideas on a 3mall part of their fields before applying
them on a wider scale.
3.12        The BEA will be the primary point of contact with the farmer.  He
will be responeible for transmitting all extension themes and sending up
information gathered from the farmers. Farmers will be active in the generation
of extension themes and the choice of themes to be discussed at group sessions.
Instead of extending one theme per month as is done in Gitarama, several themes
or sub-themes related to the farmers' activities in that particular part of the
farming cycle will be discussed.   The project will continue and expand the
practice of the concours aRricole (annual agricultural competition) for the best
farmer, best extension group, etc. Prizes are usually small agricultural tools,
or other inputs.
3.13        The content of extension will be based on small, incremental, but
highly beneficial improvements to existing practices. Revolutionary discoveries
are unlikely given existing country and sectoral characteristics. The extension
service will continue with themes or sub-themes that have been successfully
extended in the past bul which have yet to reach many farmers, and with other
themes that have recently become available.   New themes or improvements in
existing themes are expected to become available through the adaptive and on-
farm research process.   Themes that are available for extension through the
project include:
a)    composting;
b)    legume culture--dissemination of recommended varieties along
with appropriate cultural techniques and the use of compost.
(this theme seems particularly appreciated by women);
c)    sweet  potato--diffusion  of  popular  and more  productive
varieties e.g. K 51 accompanied by rapid multiplication
techniques;
d)    post harvest conservation and treatment of cereals and legumes
and processing of manioc (again of interest to women);
e)    erosion control--digging of drainage  ditches,  terracing,
cultivation of trees or appropriate plants along contours;
f)    soil fertility improvement--interplanting of soil improving
agro-forestry species, use of compost and chemical fertilizer
where applicable;
g)    coffee cultivation--plantation density, pruning, mulching, use
of chemical fertilizer, disease control, better harvesting
and processing techniques;
h)    introduction of soybeans;



- 23 -
i)    agro-forestry, communal forestry;
J)    banana cultivation--interplanting with beans,  use of by-
products, disease control;
k)    animal   health--preventive   care   techniques   including
vaccinations;
1)    treatment of seed before planting; and
m)    animal production--stabling of animals, genetic improvement,
fodder crop cultivation, chicken and fish farming, beekeeping.
3.14        The project will finance some investments in support of the above
themes. Material, equipment, and some operating costs will be financed for
forestry and coffee nurseries at the sector level. Through umusanda farmers will
provide labor for establishment where necessary. The idea is to gradually get
farmer groups to take over the nurseries as cooperative concerns to produce
plants for themselves. It is expected that by the third project year one-third
of the 239 sector nurseries will be completely operated by the farmer groups,
two-thirds by the fourth year, with complete coverage by the fifth year.
Assurances were obtained on this at negotiati,ns.  In support of communal tree
planting a lump sum of about $1,500 per comwrAne per year will be provided for
the purchase of plants contracted from private nurseries. Maintenance costs for
existing communal plantations will be financed for two years after which the
communes will take over maintenance themselves with funds recovered through the
sale of trees in the plantations. The implementation role of the communes in
the project including farmer groups within these communes, financing arrange-
ments, and the responsibility of the agricultural services will be clearly
spelled out in agreements (satisfactory to IDA) to be signed between the services
(MINAGRI) and at least seven communes (or farmer groups in the comwznes) no later
than June 30,  1990.   Assurances were obtained on this at neRotiations.
Implementation of contractual arrangements will be monitored by the communal
coordinators and bourgmestres and problems discussed during the regular meeting
of the commune technical and development committees (para. 4.04).
3.15        Some dispensaries, vaccination crushes, watering holes and slaughter
houses will be constructed in support of livestock activities. These will be
located mainly in Cyangugu where this type of infrastructure is seriously
lacking. A transit center for young chicks will be constructed in the Gishiyita
U. 0. No later than six months after credit effectiveness GOR will provide
plans, satisfactory to IDA, for the management of this center including its
eventual transfer to farmer groups or the private sectco.   Assurances were
obtained on this at negotiations. The project will finance material, equipment
and breeding stock. A $78,000 revolving fund for veterinary inputs and $62,000.
for the purchase of young chicks will be provided. Animal health services will
be provided at cost (excluding salaries). Considerable progress has already been
made in the BGM project areas in recoveriag non-salary direct costs.   This
practice will be extended to other project areas.



- 24 _
Adaptive and On-farm Research
3.16        This component is designed to identify and address farmers' concerns
in a participative manner, and to strengthen the linkages between farmers,
extension and research by establishing a two-way flow of information. It is
expected that this will provide the basis for generation of new extension themes
or improvement of existing ones. Strong linkages are expected between adaptive
research,  extension and monitoring and evaluation.   To achieve component
objectives several activities are envisaged. In the initial stages the project
would finance diaznostic surveys to be carried out by a joint team of extension
staff and ISAR. The aim would be to better assess farmers' constraints and
resources.   Stock would be taken of existing technologies which could be
translated into extension messages to overcome constraints. Constraints for
which there are no ready solutions would be fed back to research for action.
Following this, a more detailed program of on-farm research would be pursued.
Between seven to fourteen experimental groups (1-2 per U. 0) would be set up for
more detailed study. In addition to an in-depth look at the technical aspects
of the farming enterprise, on-farm research would strive to assess economic,
social and environmental impact of recommended technologies. Results would be
fed back to the extension service and to ISAR. The experimental groups would
be made up of farmers representing different farming systems and agro-ecological
conditions. The farmers would be selected on a voluntary basis and would carry
out on-farm trials and regularly provide data on their farms.   Exchange of
information would be promoted between group members.
3.17        As part of the effort to identify constraints at the local level and
find solutions the project would support communal agricultural planning. This
would be initiated in three communes and the results assessed before expansion
to an additional four communes. The project would provide up to US$ 10,000 per
U. 0 to set up a participative process that would enable local people to define
problems and propose action plans to solve them. Activities in the action plans
could become part of the adaptive research program in the projects annual work
plan (para. 4.06).  The commune agricultural plans would also feed into the
overall commune plans to be developed as part of the fourth five year plan
exercise.   Commune plans would themselves become part of the prefecture and
national plans in support of the bottom-up planning process initiated by the
President in 1987.
3.18        The extension service will cooperate with ISAR to expand the network
of multi-local trials in order to cover the main agro-ecological zones. An
estimated 14 multi-local test sites (2 per U. 0) of about 2 ha each would be
established.   The trials would be designed, visited at critical stages, and
analyzed by ISAR researchers in cooperation with the U. 0 agricultural subject
matter specialist. Regular supervisions would be carried out by U. 0 staff with
routine operations implemented by commune level staff. Great care would be taken
that only trials addressed to farmers genuine priorities would be implemented.
Some of the experiments will be in farmers fields.  Researchers supervising
multi-local experiments and extension staff would meet at least once a year at
the U. 0 to evaluate research results and prepare the collaborative work plan
for the next year.
3.19        Technologies successfully concluded under controlled conditions would
be systematically tested in simple on-farm trials before extending them on a
large scale. The project would provide seeds, fertilizers and pesticides for



- 25 -
these tests.   Results would be shared with research and discussed with
participating farmers. A priority area for tests would be fertilizer trials on
coffee and on different food crops.   Other areas would include testing of
different higher yielding, and disease resistant varieties of beans, soybeans,
sweet potato, and coffee; experimenting with erosion control techniques involving
use of agro-forestry species; alley cropping; and improved cultural practices
for coffee.
3.20        While ISAR would establish the protocol for multi-local and on-farm
trials, and analyze results, the extension service would implement the tests.
The agriculture SMS at the U. 0 would work closely with ISAR and with the
prefecture level officer in charge of coordinating adaptive research on the
conception of the trials. The SMS would supervise their installation by the
commune agricultural officer who would associate the BEA in the installation.
Given the importance of adaptive research, a full time experienced research
officer will be appointed at the central level to coordinate research activities
in the project (para. 3.10). About eight man-months of technical assistance
would be provided to assist the research officer with conceptual work, training
and the design of surveys and other test instruments. Part of this short-term
consultancy could also be used to define tasks, job content and modalities of
operation of the proposed adaptive and on-farm research unit in MINAGRI. The
research officer may initially be based in one of the prefectures to facilitate
contact with field level problems.   The officer would be involved in the
formulation and evaluation of ISAR programs in order to enhance their relevance
to the farmers' constraints and resources of the project area. He would also
liaise with other agricultural projects dealing with adaptive research to learn
from and disseminate their experience to field staff.   He would facilitate
exchange of information on research results between prefectures. Prior to credit
effectiveness ISA! and the extension service would-sign an accord, satisfactory
to IDA, detailing the respective duties of each party.  The Research Officer
would monitor the respect of the contract by the two parties.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
3.21        The objective of the monitoring and evaluation program will be to
keep ministry and project staff at all levels regularly informed on three
questions:
a)    Are the various project programs being implemented as planned?
b)    Are they leading to expected results, and
c)    If not, what should be done to revise or modify the original
plan?
The monitoring and evaluation program is to operate as a decentralized management
information system and it is intended that technical and administrative staff
at all levels in the structure w;t t themselves undertake monitoring and
evaluation activities as an integral part of their regular work program.
Information obtained through monitoring and evaluation will be fed back rapidly
to extension and research for action and vice versa hence the tight linkage
between the  three.   No  special monitoring  and evaluation unit will  be
established, however, short term technical assistance will be provided to advise



- 26 -
and assist the different technical services of the project on the setting up and
use of their own monitoring and evaluation system. The effectiveness and value
of the monitoring and evaluation program rests entirely on the recognition by
staff that monitoring is an essential ingredient of their work and that the
program is designed to help them perform more effectively and is not to be used
primarily as a controlling mechanism.   To facilitate an understanding of
raonitoring and evaluation, and to make the system operational and effective the
project would provide technical support and training on a regular basis to staff
at all levels through a program of seminars and short-term training courses
(para. 3.37).
3.22        Internal prolect monitoring would be based on the development of a
table of key indicators by each technical service. A set of monitoring guides
will be used to help with the selection of appropriate indicators and targets.
The indicators will be used to ensure that, on the one hand, project inputs
(human, material and financial) are available at the right time, in the right
quantities, and at the right place and that, on the other hand, the project is
generating the expected outputs for the farming community in terms of services
and products (extension, training, seed, fertilizer etc.). The monitoring guides
will show, for each indicator, a target or objective against which actual
achievements will be compared. These forms will be periodically updated and
their contents  evaluated throughout the year.    Information for internal
monitoring will come from internal project records kept by project staff. The
output of the monitoring exercise will be discussed at regular fortnightly
meetings at the commune level and monthly meetings at the U. 0.
3.23        The impact of extension and other atricultural services on the
beneficiary population will be monitored. Three key indicators will be used to
do this:
a)    participation ratess  the proportion of the population that
is maintaining regular contact with extension agents through
meetings and demonstrations;
b)    adoption rates:  the proportion of the population that is
applying a recommended message at least on an experimental
basis; and
c)    repeat adoption rates: the proportion of the population that,
having once tried out a message, continues to apply it in
subsequent seasons.
These three indicators will be produced for the population of an area e. g.
commune, sous-prefecture and for sub-groups of that population--male, female,
large or small farmers so that comparisons can be made between sub-groups and
even between different areas. Light, simple and timely surveys conducted 2-3
times a year on a random sample of farmers will be used to produce information
on the three indicators. These surveys will frequently highlight problems which
can be further investigated through diagnostic studies carried out by the
extension staff themselves or by outsiders invited to do so.
3.24        The above monitoring system has a built-in evaluation mechanism.
That is the chain of two-weekly, monthly, bi-annual and annual meetings that are
scheduled to take place at the levels of the commune, U. 0., prefecture, and



- 27 -
MINAGRI. Periodically, more complex evaluations by an external independent body
will be undertaken. These may require some additional data collection, but a
measure of the longer term impact of the extension service, for instance, will
for the most part be obtainable through an analysis of the trends of adoption
rates for different farmer groups over time. An important evaluation study will
be the mid-term review in project year 3. This will look carefully at the
impact of the extension methodology used.  To facilitate the monitoring and
evaluation work the project will finance, in addition to the 9 man-months of
technical assistance, a team of enumerators to be called on for surveys as
needed, and a computer for analysis.   The 'fonctionnaire dirigeant' will
coordinate the monitoring and evaluation effort. During project implementation,
and in any event, no later than December 31, 1991, MINAGRI will identify an agro-
economist, who will receive short-term training in monitoring and evaluation,
methods so as to effectively assist with the coordination of monitoring and
evaluation activities and with the analysis of data. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
Strengtheninx of Seed Production
3.25        The project would strengthen seed production and distribution and
assist with the implementation of national seeds policy.   The draft seed
legislation now before the Ministry of Justice may take some time to approve into
law. In the interim, MINAGRI plans to reactivate the seed industry along the
lines described in the legislation. In this regard, the Agricultural Research
project Cr. 1546-RW would support ISAR's efforts to improve production of pre-
base  seed.   J4INAGRI would  issue  a ministerial  decision  empowering  the
certification division of the SSS to effectively control seed quality and certify
seeds based on technical criteria to be prepared by the SSS and approved by the
NSC. The ministerial decision would also spell out the role of each actor in
the seed industry. At negotiations assurances were obtained that not later than
June 30, 1990. SSS would prepare the draft technical criteria which should be
sent to IDA for review and comment and then to the NSC for approval. Further,
not later than January 31, 1991 (and in the event that the seed letislation has
not yet become law), MINAGRI would issue the ministerial decision Ruiding seed
production and certification.
3.26        The project would provide about US$ 20,000 to the NSC to enable it
to seek consulting assistance relevant to fulfilling its mandate.   In this
regard, the NSC would review the present seed demand and supply situation and
assess requirements for certified seed.
3.27        The  project would  seek  to  improve  seed  aualitv  control  and
certification and thereby increase farmers' confidence in the quality of
certified seed sold. Assistance would be provided to the SSS to develop a seed
catalogue showing varieties that can be multiplied. The project would finance
additional manpower and operating costs to facilitate field inspections by the
certification division. This would complement assistance provided by FAO and
by Belgian aid which finances four seed experts in the SSS.
3.28        To help rationalize seed production and improve the viability of
former BGM/PCCV project seed farms support would be provided to the SSS to take
over management of six of these farms totalling 50 ha. Once viable, the farms
are expected to become potentially attractive to the private sector. The project



- 28 -
will finance additional investments (minor civil works and equipment) on these
farms and SSS's incremental overhead cost--salary of technical staff, transport
and subsistence entailed by the transfer.  The full direct cost of producing
certified seed on the farms would be financed the first year. Thereafter, a
decreasing subsidy would be provided until project year 3 when revenues from seed
sales are expected to cover the direct costs of production. The project would
also finance the gradual development of a 40 ha area in Bugarama, Cyangugu
prefecture, set aside by the Government partly for seed multiplication and parti.y
for adaptive research trials including small stock trials. Only a small part
of the area (about 10 ha) would initially be developed for multiplication of base
and certified seed. During the project mid-term review in year 3 (para. 4.07)
an assessment of the total area to be developed for seed multiplication purposes
would be made based on the availability of and demand for improved varieties,
and the  extent  of  implementation of national  seeds policy.    The  seed
multiplication activities would be managed by SSS which would use the farm as
a base to encourage the contracting of small farmers as outarowers for seed
multiplication purposes.   Besides the establishment costs, the project will
finance direct seed production costs on th.t same basis as the ex-BGM/PCCV seed
farms to be transferred to the SSS.
3.29        The project will improve cost recovery and seed pricina nolicy. The
present average direct production cost of base and certified seed is about RI
100/kg while the average sale price is RF 50/kg. The difference is financed
through government subsidies. The project would aim to recover at least the
direct cost of seed production within 3 years. This will be achieved by reducing
production costs through better management and increasing the sale prlce for
seed. During appraisal, the basic principle of selling improved seed at prices
at least 50% above consumption prices was retained. On this basis, the prices
of groundnut and soybean seed would be increased. A periodic (six-monthly)
review and revision of seed prices on the above principle will be instituted.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that GOR would recover 65% of the
direct cost of seed production by December 31. 1990, 80% by December 31, 1991
and 100% by December 31, 1992.  Full recovery of direct costs from thae ex-
BGM/PCCV seed farms would save the Government an estimated US$ 54,000 (50% of
direct production costs) a year on an expected production of 86 tons.  An
additional US$ 28,000 may be saved from seed multiplication activities on the
Bugarama farm at full development. Total cost of the seed component is about
US$ 2.2 million. Establishment of proper cost accounting procedures on the seed
farms would be a top priority. This would improve tracking of costs and revenues
and provide a basis for a proper financial analysis of seed production.
Promotion of Azricultural Marketing, Input Supply, and Cooperative Development
3.30        The relative success of the Gitarama project in promoting private
sector activity in input supply and marketing would be replicated in the project
through the inclusion of a promotion component. Its objective would be to a)
develop the provision of agricultural inputs--selected seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides, and tools to farmers; and b) further assist the cooperatives and the
private sector in the fields of processing, storage,and marketing of agricultural
products.   The component is designed to provide support to the project's
extension activities by ensuring that inputs are available when needed and
outputs can be marketed.   An Agricultural Promotion Office (APO) would be
established in each of the project's five prefecturas to carry out the promotion



- 29 -
tasks including coordination of the activitizs of NGOs and tho Banques Populaires
(BP) regarding training of cooperatives and artisans and provision of credit.
The APO will be staffed with an AO Promotion officer answerable to the prefecture
coordinator, an A2 assistant and an A2 junior accountant. The project would
finance housing construction for three officers, office equipment and furniture,
and a pick-up van and motorcycle per office.
3.31        In the initial stages of the project,  the APO will act as a
wholesaler responsible for procuring inputs (e.g. selected seed) and distributing
to retailers in the project area with the objective of eventually stimulating
the private sector to take ove; this function. At the end of the project the
APO should work itself out of a Job. A revolving fund of about USS 218,000 would
be provided to fund the inputs most of which would be purchased locally. The
APO will also be responsible for identifying activities and studies necessary
to develop agricultural production. Furthermore, the APO will be in charge of
preparing and managing contracts with the following institutions:
i)    the Banques Populairess   The BP will be responsible for
providing and recovering agricultural credit including seasonal
credit, briuging (consumption) credit, loans for purchasing
cattle and paying farm labor, loans for start-up of trade, and
purchase of processing and other equipment. The BP will also
mobilize rural savings through the opening up of new branches
in the project area.   The project will support the BP's
activities through the provision of a guarantee fund of RF 6
million (US$ 78,000) to cover lending to selected cooperatives
in the project area. The fund will cover a maximum of 30% of
any single loan to the cooperatives.
ii)   IWACU:  This NGO will be in charge of training cooperatives
in bookkeeping, inventory management, and preparing loan
applications.    IWACU is also expected to foster inter-
cooperative relationships in the project area. Its activities
will cover about 20 cooperatives in each prefecture beginning
with Cyangugu, Kigali, and Gisenyi. Kibungo and Kibuye will
be covered later.   To this end, about RF 60 million (USS
780,000) will be provided in the project for a five year
contract to be reviewed bi-annually. Special attention will
be paid to womens' cooperatives interested in marketing, joint
production of a particular commodity, and processing of
agricultural products.
iii)  KORA:  The training of artisan groups may be handled by this
NGO with a special emphasis on the manufacture and repair of
agricultural tools, processing and stocking equipment, wood
works, and improved charcoal stoves for cooking. The contract
with KORA will be contingent upon successful implementation
of a similar contract in the Gitarama project. In the event
that KORA's performance is unsatisfactory the contract will
be awarded to another NGO. An amount of RIF 20 million (about
US$ 260,000) has been included in the project for the training
of artisans. Not later than March 31, 1990, MINAGRI would sign
contracts with the above organizations (except for KORA whose
work is still to be evaluated), to implement the activities



- 30 -
described. Contracts should be approved by IDA. Assurances
were obtainad on this at negotiations.
3.32        Some parts of the project area are isolated because of the lack of
secondary roads, inadequate maintenance of existing roads, and broken bridSes.
This poses considerable problems for marketing -rhich, if not resolved, could have
serious adverse impacts on project production objectives. The worst areas are
in the communes of Gishoma, Gafunzo, Cyimbogo, Gisuma, Gatare, Kirambo,
Karengera, and Bugarama all in Cyangugu prefecture.  A list of the roads and
bridges in question is presented in Annex 2, Table 6. While the ASP project will
not finance road development or maintenance, financing of the priority list of
roads and bridges could be included in the proposed IDA financed first Transport
Sector project.   To facilitate this MINAGRI should reach an agreement in
principle with MINITRAPEE on the importance of according priority to the
infrastructure works needed under the ASP project through the communal roads
component of the proposed Transport Sector project.   The modalities  for
construction or rehabilitation of the roads and bridges identified and their
future maintenance will be discussed with MINITRAPEE and with the communes in
the context of the transport project. The ASP will finance the construction of
three quays (points d'accostage) in communes along Lake Kivu to make these
communes accessible to extension agents and for marketing purposes.
Improving Service Delivery to Women
.3.33        An important project objective is improving womens'  access to
agricultural services.   While women do the bulk of sowing, weeding,  and
harvesting for fooderops, processing and caring for livestock, they typically
do not feature in the groups of farmers that attend extension -cosions or
demonstrations (para. 1.17). Extension agents tend to focus on the heads of
households--men and the latter often fail to transmit messages to their wives
or transmit them inaccurately. Failure to reach women may be instrumental in
lowering adoption rates for messages particularly for fooderops. A start has
been made in the Gitarama project to increase the number of women volunteers
attending extension sessions.  About 102 of the farmers in the Karama U. 0
participating in these sessions last cropping season were women. Considerable
efforts still have to made. A study commissioned as part of the preparation of
the Agricultural Services Project indicates that the most important constraint
to womens' participation is time. During the day women are busy on the farm.
In the evenings they are occupied with household tasks leaving little or no time
for outside activities. Other constraints to reaching women include the social
attitudes which cast the man in the role of 'point of contact' with the outside
world; and the lack of awareness of extension agents of the importance of
including women in their training sessions.
3.34        The project would aim to increase the participation of women in group
training sessions bys a) better sensitizing extension officers on the importance
of the role of women in agriculture and the need to reach them with the extension
messages. In this regard specific topics on the role of women will be introduced
in the training sessions for extension agents and agricultural officers
throughout the   extension structure (para. 3.36); b) scheduling extension
training session3 at times convenient to both the women and their husbands.
Initial consultations should be held with farmers on this at the beginning of
the project.   Extension agents will also try to reach women while they are



- 31 -
working on their farms.   In some cases informal women cooperatives working
together on the farm would make good contact groups; c) sensitizing husbands on
the need for their wives to attend extension sessions; d) introducing messages
of special interest to women such as legume and fruit culture, nutrition and
care of livestock; e) in parallel with the concours agricole the annual communal
agricultural competition for the best farmer, the project would introduce a
concours femme designed to reward women who have best put extension messages to
practice.  A lump sum of about US" 860 per commuine would be provided to purchase
items of particular interest to women as prizes.  Women cited their need for
agricultural tools and processing equipment. The ultimate objective would be
to raise womens' participation in group sessions up to 75% of that of men by the
end of the project. The extent to which the extension service is reaching women
will be carefully monitored by the extension service internal monitoring and
evaluation system (para. 3.23).   Without setting quantitative targets, the
project will encourage employment of greater numbers of women BEAS and other
officers within the extension structure.
3.35        Within the promotion component efforts would be made to identify and
include at least five womens' cooperative Rroups out of the twenty to be trained
in bookkeeping and other techniques in each prefecture. The groups would be
assisted to obtain credit for joint ventures in marketing, farming and
processing. Consultants would be brought in to teach new techniques on the
processing, conservation and cooking of manioc, soybeans, and cereals. This
would be complemented with regional study tours for the romen on the same or
related topics.
Trainina
3.36        Training is of the utmost importance for the success of the project
and will be provided in the three areas of extension, adaptive research and
monitoring and evaluation. Training will be geared to improving the technical
knowledge of all staff and improving thei- communication skills. Some seminars
and training sessions will be designed for local and other ministry officials
to explain the rationale for the project, its expected mode of functioning and
the role of the officials and others in its success. Much of the training will
be in-country and on the job. For extension agents training will consist of
fortnightly training sessJ.ons, monthly workshops and in-country study tours.
Higher level extension and adaptive research officers will also undertake
regional and overseas study tours. During the first project year, when a minimum
70% of the BEAs are in place, intensive orientation/training sessions would be
provided. The project will finance 7 man-weeks of technical assistance to help
design and implement the initial training sessions. A detailed training program
for the first artd subsequent project years is attached in Annex 2.  The content
of the initial sessions on extension would include: the rationale for setting
up the service, pr.nciples of the T&V system, description of posts and tasks,
discussion of work plans, extension themes, communication methods, the role of
women, and the need for continual training. For adaptive and on-farm research
(for which ISAR staff would participate in the training) topics would include:
translation of the products of research to the field, diagnosis of farm level
problems, involving farmers in problem solving, setting up and follow-up of
experimental groups. For monitoring and evaluation focus would be on explaining
the rationale for monitoring and evaluation, ir'egration of monitoring and
evaluation ectivities in the work program, choice of indicators, monitoring



- 32 -
surveys, diagnostic studies, and evaluation. About RF 53 million (US$ 687,000)
would be provided for in-country training while RF 27 million (US$ 348,000) would
be spent on external training.
Technical Assistance and Studies
3.37        The project includes very little technical assistance.  A total of
about US$ 1 million will be provided to fund a long-term position in financial
management (three years), and several man-months of short-term assistance for
monitoring and evaluation, adaptive and on-farm research, seeds, and training.
Several studies on marketing, processing and storage of agricultural products,
introduction of different fruits and legumes are planned. About US$ 534,000 has
been provided for these studies. Consultants will be hired according to IDA
guidelines. Terms of reference for the studies must be agreed by IDA and GOR.
Assurances were obtained on this at negotiations.
S.   Prolect Costs
3.38        Total project cost (including direct taxes of about US$ 1.3 million)
is estimated at USS 30.1 million (RF 2,320 million), of which US' 11.2 million
or 372 is foreign exchange. Indirect taxes will be waived by GOR. Costs are
baned on quantity and unit price estimates prepared by MINAGRI. Unit price
estimates for vehicles, equipment, and civil works are in line with past project
experience and recent civil works contracts.  Prices are as of October 1988
updated to the negotiating date of April 1989.
3.39        Price contingencies amount to 15S c! total base cost plus phvsical
continAencies and have been calculated on the basis of foreign inflation rates
of 3.31 for 1988, 3.72 for 1989, 4.1% for 1990, 5.7X for 1991, 4.9X for 1992,
4.75X for 1993 and onwards; and local inflation rates of 62 for 1988, 51 for
1989, 41 for 1990-94.  Physical contingencies of 101 have been included for
selected project items such as civil works and equipment. Project costs are
summarized in Table 3.1.   Details are presented in Annex 3 and in the
implementation volume.



- 33 -
Table 3.1
Aatricultural Services L!roiect
Proiect Cost Suumnarv
FRU 10002                     (US6 1000                     : lotal
- - - -- 2  for la D
Local    Foreltn    Total      Local  Forftr.u    lotul   Exchln      Costs
A.      Central Administration                                                  44U    .  lzt344.9  135v544.1    574.0  1.196.3  1,760.3         67        7
S.      Extension/Adaptive Research M6U  Prefectures                          120.063.8  79.21.9  tse2s6.7   1.559.3  1.028.5  2,587.7           40       11
C.      Extension/Adaptive Research/M&H   0. Os                                196.481.9 138.995.4  335,467.3  2.551.7  1.805.0  4,356.7         41       18
D.      Extension/Adaptive Research/Mgg Comnunes                               177.433.6  69,944.7  247,378.3  29304.3   908.4 3*212.7           28       13
E.      Extension/Adaptive Research/MU&     Sector                             141,895.7 89,102.3  230,997.9  1.842.8  I157.2  3,000.0           39       1
F.      Promotion of Agricultural Input Supply & Marketing   179,442.3  71*389.3  25.0f31.6  2.330.4   e27.1  39257.6                            28       13
C.      Upgrading ex-BG1C PCCV  Seed Ferms                                      289322.5  12.890.4   41.213.0    367.8   167.4   535.2           31        2
B.      Development Demonstration Seed Farm  Bugar...                           46,911.0 49,095.3   96.006.3    609.2   637.6  1*246.8           51        5
I.      Support Investments In Livestock                                       74,687.2  47.896.7  122*583.9    970.0   622.0  1.592.0           39
J.      Support Investments in Forestry                                        136,877.1  33,927.3  17.804.5  19777.6   440.6  2Q219.2           20        9
KC.     Studies                                                                 32.973.0  St71n.9   41.146.0    428.2   106.1   534.4            20        2
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                                         1.179.287.5 691,942.1 1,871.229.6  15,315.4  8,996.3 :49301.7       37      1G;
Phys tal Contingencies                                                         OW70.5   9194.2  148,895.7  1;035.1    M.6  1,933.7            46        8
Price Contingencles                                                         20C,99.4  "9390.0  300.370.4  2*610.1  1*290.8  39900.9           33       16
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                          1,459,9694 860*526.3 2320.495.6  18.960.6 11.175.7 309336.3         37      124
9==z:S::.*  .Sm:=S: Z5:n:.: S:  :lS SSZ=  s:ZnX.. z::==       fh rSfznzs  sSSa



- 34 -
F.   Financinx
3.40        Financing by major project components would be as follow:s
Table 3.2
USS 'Thousands
Components                           IDA              GOR           TOTAL
Extension, Adaptive Research
and Monitoring & Evaluation
Services (including support
investments in Livestock and
Forestry)                          12,842.5       8,179.5       21,022.0
Strengthening of Seed Production
and Distribution (including
development multi purpose and
demonstration seed Farm
Bugarama)                           1,685.8          532.6       2,218.4
Promotion of 2rivate Sector
Participation in Marketing
Input Supply, and Cooperative
Development                         3,105.7          940.2       4,045.9
Central Administration                1,693.2          493.S       2,186.5
Studies                                 623.7           39.8         663.5
TOTAL                          19,950.9      10,185.4       30,136.3
The proposed IDA credit of US$ 19.9 million (RF 1532.3 million) would cover 66Z
of project costs and would be provided to GOR on standard terms and conditions.
It would cover the following: all technical assistance costs and the costs of
overseas, regional and local -raining and studies; 95Z of the cost of construc-
tion, equipment, vehicles, orest nursery development, and other investments
including the cost of contracts with IWACU, the BP and possibly KORA; and
incremental operating costs excluding salaries and transport allowances on the
following degressive basis: 752 in year 1, 60% in year 2, 50X in year 3, 35%
in year 4, and 02 in year 5.  GOR would provide US$ 10.2 million (RF 785.4
million) or 34% of project costs including taxes.  GORts contribution would
finance all staff salaries and transport allowances, and other recurrent costs
on a progressive basis as follows: 25% in year 1, 40X in year 2, 50% in year
3, 652 in year 4,  and  100% in year 5.   The project aims to transfer
responsibility for recurrent costs to GOR as quickly as possible to assure
sustainability. In order to allow time for changes in budget procedures, GOR's
contribution would appear in MINAGRI's development budget (as is normally done
for projects)  for the first three years  (para.  3.05).   Thereafter,  the
contributions would be integrated into the operating budget where they would



- 35 -
appear as a line item.   Assurances were obtained on these procedures at
negotiations. An average US$ 2.04 million per annum would be contributed by
MINAGRI during project implementation. This represents about 9% of the 1987
budget for agriculture.   The project's incremental impact on the budget is
slightly less (7Z) if the contributions to the BGM and PCCV projects (which the
project would replace) are taken into account.   Given GOR's willingness to
increase resources to agriculture for projects considered a priority the
relatively small increment for the Agricultural Services project is considered
reasonable. When projected recurrent expenditures under the project are compared
to recurrent expenditures by both donors and Government on extension it becomes
evident that the project would lead to significant savings (para. 5.04).
G.   Procurement
3.41        All goods and services financed under the credit would be procured
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Prior IDA review of procurement procedures
including tender documents, bid evaluation, award and contract signature would
be required for all contracts exceeding US$ 50,000. Contracts for equipment,
materials, inputs and vehicles estimated to cost US$ 100,000 and more would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB), and a preference margin
of 15% of CIF bid price or actual customs duties, whichever is less, would be
allowed for domestic manufacturers. Contracts would be grouped into packages
of at least US$ 100,000 whenever possible.  Contracts valued at less than US$
100,000 but more than US$ 20,000 would be procured through local competitive
bidding (LCB) under procedures acceptabie to IDA. Contracts of less than US$
20,000 for an aggregate value not to exceed US$ 0.6 million would be procured
through international and local shopping based on at least three quotations.
3.42        Construction of offices, training facilities, ware:s.ouses and staff
housing aggregating to US$ 4.7 million would be awarded by LCB because these
contracts would be geographically scattered and not readily grouped for
simultaneous  tendering.    These  are not  likely  to  attract  international
contractors although they would not be excluded. IWACU, the BP, and possibly
KORA would enter into contracts with MINAGRI, to carry out respectively the
training of cooperatives, provision of agricultural credit based on a guarantee
fund, and training of artisans in the project area.  These contracts would be
submitted for IDA's approval and would contain indicators enabling monitoring
of contract implementation. Contracts for the construction of three quays would
be awarded  following  ICB.   All  IDA  financed expatriate  staff would be
internationally recruited following procedures acceptable to IDA.   Studies
financed under the project would be carried out by consultants selected in
accordance with IDA guidelines.  The planned procurement table is summarized
below:



- 36 -
Table 3.3
Procurement t
(US$ Million)
ICB     LCB        LS el      Other        NIA         Total
Civil Works              0.8 b/ 4.7                                              5.5
(0.7)  (4.5)                                           (5.2)
Vehicles, Equip.,
Material, Inputs       3.4              0.5                                    3.9
(3.2)           (0.5)                                  (3.7)
Training, Studies, TA                                   3.4                      3.4
(3.3)                   (3.3)
Support to NGOs &
Prom. activities                                     2.5 cl                   2.5
(2.3)                   (2.3)
Investment in Forest
and Coffee Nurseries                                                2.9 fl     2.9
(2.7)      (2.7)
Salaries, Transporta-
tion All                                                            5.9        5.9
(0.0)      (0.0)
Vehicle operating &
other operating                         0.1                        (5.9) di    6.0
(0.1)                      (2.6)       (2.7)
TOTAL COSTS            4.2    4.7       0.6           5.9          14.7       30.1
TOTAL IDA FINANCING   (3.9)  (4.5)    (0.6)          (5.6)         (5.3)     (19.9)
a/    The figures between parentheses represent IDA's share.
b/    Construction cost of 3 ruays (points d'accostage) to be awarded following
ICB.
c/    Includes the cost of activities to be carried out by IWACU, the Banques
Populaires and KORA for US$ 2.2 million of which IDA's share is US$ 2.1
million.
di    Includes vehicles operating costs for US$ 4.1 million of which IDA's share
is US$ 1.7 million.
e/    International and Local Shopping.
f/    Development of Forest Nurseries for US$ 2.4 million and Coffee Nurseries
for US$ 0.5 million of which IDA share is USS 2.2 million and US$ 0.5
million respectively. The nurseries will be established through umupanda
communal labor and IDA would finance materials (seeds, plastic sachets)
small implements and some operating costs.
B.  Disbursements
3.43        Disbursements under the project in amounts and percentages per
category would be as follow:s



- 37 -
Table 3.4
Disbursements
Catesorv                                 USS Million        2 of Expenditures
Civil Works                                   4.7            952
Equipment, Vehicles, Material, Inputs         3.4           100l   Foreign, 951
Local Expenditure
Training, Studies, TA                         2.9           1001
Support to NGOs & Prom. Activities            2.1            951
Investment in Forest and Coffee
Nursery Development                         2.4            95X
Operating costs excluding salaries
and transportation allowance                2.4            75Z in Y1; 601 in
Y2; 501 in Y3; 351
in Y4; 02 In Y5.
Unallocated                                   2.0
TOTAL                                  19.9
Based on disbursement experience with recent agricultural projects in Rwanda,
and given the planned availability of a financial expert to monitor procurement
and disbursements, about a six-year disbursement schedule is considered
reasonable for the project. Funds are expected to be disbursed from the first
semester of calendar year 1990 through the end of September 1995.  Project
closing is scheduled for June 30, 1995.
3.44        To ensure that funds are available when needed and to reduce the
number of small withdrawal applications to be processed, a special account in
US dollars would be established at the National Bank of Rwanda or at a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA. Upon credit effectiveness, IDA would make an initial
deposit of US$ 1.0 million in the special account for the project, corresponding
to an average of about four months of expenditures eligible under IDA financing.
The special account will be used to pays  (a) foreign currency expenditures
including salaries of expatriate staff; and (b) local expenditures for investment
and operating costs. Transactions for all expenditures will be effected using
the exchange rate of the day. The special account would be replenished every
month upon receipt of documentary evidence to be provided by MINAGRI. Directives
regarding operation of the special account would be included in the disbursement
letter to be sent by IDA after credit signature. Whenever possible, withdrawal
applications, other than replenishment requests would be aggregated in amounts
of USS 100,000 or more before submission to IDA for payments. Disbursements for
all items would be based on full documentation unless authorized for disbursement
against statements of expenditure (SOE). Disbursements against SOE would be used
for: (a) civil works contracts costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent; (b) all
other contracts (except the internationally recruited consultants contracts),
costing less than US$ 20,000 equivalent; and (c) all operating costs.   The
supporting documentation for such disbursements would be kept by the project
financial manager and would be reviewed by the auditors and IDA supervision
missions. Assurances that these procedures would be followed were obtained at
negotiations.



- 38 -
3.45        To ensure that Government counterpart funds are made available when
needed GOR would establish a counterpart fund account in the National Bank of
Rwanda. The Government would, at the beginning of each quarter, deposit in the
account its share of project costs. The initial amount to be deposited in the
counterpart fund account would be RF 15 million corresponding to four months of
GOR's share of expenditures for the project excluding salaries and transpprt
allowances. Opening of the counterpart fund account and deposit of the above
initial amount is a condition of credit effectiveness. During the project mid-
term review (para. 4.07) GOR's public expenditure program and budgetary
procedures for the agricultural sector would be reviewed by GOR and IDA to ensure
their adequacy for continued funding of the agricultural services during and
after the project.  Assurances were obtained on this at negotiations.   To avoid
over-centralizatien of project financial management and to facilitate project
implementation, GOR would open project accounts in banks acceptable to IDA at
the prefecture and sous-prefecture levels using counterpart funds. Should there
be no bank branches at the sous-prefecture, the project accounts for the U. Os
can be opened at a prefecture level bank acceptable to IDA. These accounts would
be for payment of expenditures amounting in aggregate to no more than USS 20,000
at the prefecture level and US$ 5000 at the sous-prefecture (U. 0) level. The
accounts .would be replenished as necessary by the project financial manager and
upon receipt of supporting documentation. Replenishment of the accounts would
also be from counterpart funds. Assurances were obtained on these procedures
at negotiations.
I.   Financial Manatement, Accounts and Audit
3.46        The project financial organization will comprise the central level
accounting team which will consolidate project accounts, and a small decentra-
lized team of accountants in the prefectures and sous-prefectures to manage daily
transactions. At the center, there will be a financial meaager experienced in
accounting and finance with, at least, five years of experience in development
pro4ects. He will be internationally recruited for a period of three years.
The financial manager will be assisted by an AO chief accountant and an Al or
A2 junior accountant.   Accountants of A2 level will be assigned to the
prefectures and sous-prefectures.
3.47        Simplified financial procedures with Joint responsibilities will be
established for the management of project funds. The special account (para 3.44)
will be managed by the FD and the financial manager who will be co-signatories
to the account. In their absence, checks on the account will be co-signed by
those acting for them. The counterpart fund account will also be jointly managed
by the FD and the project financial manager with similar arrangements for co-
signing of checks. Checks written on the operating account at the prefecture
level will be jointly signed by the prefecture coordinator and accountant and
at the sous-prefecture level by the U. 0 coordinator and accountant. At negoti-
ations, assurances were obtained on these arrangements.
3.48        The project's financial manager will keep project accounts.  All
project accounts, including the accounts of the seed farms, as well as the
special account would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The
auditors terms of reference would include a specific audit of the SOEs. Detailed
terms of reference would be submitted for IDA's approval by December 31 of each



- 39 -
year. Audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close
of the financial year and IDA would review all project accounts and records.
Assurances on these arrangements were obtained at negotiations.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND NAEAGEMENT
A.  Proiect Manaxement
4.01        The specific role of each level of the agricultural services
structure is described in chapter 3. The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Forests and within it the Secretary General would be responsible for overall
project  implementation  and management.   The  day  to  day  technical  and
administrative management of the project would devolve on che 'fonctionnaire
dirigeanta (FD) within MINAGRI. The FD would be assisted by the technical and
financial staff described in chapter 3. At the field level, the prefecture
coordinators would be responsible for the implementaxion of project activities
in their prefecture. They would be assisted by the prefecture level teams, the
teams at the U. 0 and the commune level. The project organizat.ion is-depicted
in Annex 5, chart 2. Since the project is assisting in reorganizing a normal
MINAGRI service, project implementation will be carried out by the regular
MINAGRI structure. No separate project implementation unit is envisaged. To
minimize the number of FDs and financial managers administering the agricultural
services structure, to avoid duplication and save GOR money, MINAGRI will appoint
one FD and one central-level financial manager for the Gitarama and Agricultural
Services projects. The FD should preferably be a higher level cadre in the
Directorate of Agricultural Production and/or familiar with the proposed
Agricultural Services Structure. Appointment of the FD should be in common
accord with IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
4.02        The effective functioning of the field services will depend in part
on the elility of the central level MINAGRI structure, to plan, supervise and
coordinate field activities.   Should MINAGRI's new organigramme be approved
(para. 2.03), the present project organization would fit well into the new
ministry concept. While awaiting its approval MINAGRI needs to maintain a light
central core staff such as the FD and his team which will assure support to the
field services. During neaotiations assurances were obtained to this effect.
4.03        Coordination mechanisms will be introduced at all levels in the
organization of the agricultural  services  to ensure the involvement and
participation of other ministries, local officials and the rural population in
project activities. At the national level there will be a National Coordination
Committee chaired by the MINAGRI Secretary General and comprising the five
prefets of the prefectures concerned in the project, the prefecture agricultural
coordinators, the FD, and representatives of the ministries of the Interior,
Finance, Plan, Commerce, and Youth and Cooperatives. This committee will discuss
and approve the annual prefecture work plans and budgets and the overall project
work plan and budget. Constitution of the National Coordination Committee is
a condition of credit effectiveness. At the prefecture level there will be a
Prefectoral Coordination Committee whose job will be to review, discuss and
approve the U.0 work plans. Once approved these work plans will become part of



- 40 -
the prefecture work plans.  The committee will be chaired by the Prefet and
comprise the prefectoral agricultural coordinator, representatives of other
relevant ministries at the prefecture level, the U.O team coordinator and
observers from other donor financed agricultural projects. A local coordination
committee will be constituted at the sous-prefecture level. It will be chaired
by the sous-prefet and comprise the coordinators of the U. 0, the bourgmestres,
and the different officers at the U. 0 level.  Their task will be to review and
synthesize the communal work plans into a U. 0 work plan to be transmitted to
the prefecture level, to review project progress and response to local needs and
problems.
4.04        At the commune level, the local authorities--bourgmestre and others
usually hold periodic meetings in the context of the commune technical
commission, and commune development committee. The project's commune level staff
would, along with staff from other technical ministries, participate in these
meetings.  The meetings would provide the opportunity to discuss the project's
work program and review its relevance to the commune's program and plans. The
timing of project activities and, in relation to this, the development of
required infrastructure by MINITRAPEE and the local authorities would also be
discussed at these meetings and reflected in the commune work programs. The
commune agricultural development plans could also be discussed and the design
begun in the context of these meetings. The local officials would be expected
to help sensitize the population on project objectives, mobilize cooperatives
to participate in the promotion activities, and facilitate the BP's expansion
of financial operations in their area. The cellule chiefs in the sectors would
work closely with the BEAs to program and implement activities in erosion
control, vaccination campaigns, and establishment of forest nurseries through
umuganda labor.
4.05        The involvement of many organizations in the project's promotion
component will necessitate coordination mechanisms. Promotion activities will
also need to be closely coordinated with extension and adaptive research
activities.  The Officer in charge of promotion in each prefecture will hold
quarterly meetings to discuss component activities and coordinate actions. The
meeting will be chaired by the prefecture coordinator and atten&dd by the NGOs,
the BP, the heads of the U. Os, and the commune coordinators. The AO promotion
officer should regularly inform U. 0 and commune coordinators of the status of
availability of input supplies, and of cooperative and private groups in their
area involved in project promotion activities. The commune and U. 0 coordinators
should in turn regularly transmit local requests for inputs to the Promotion
Officer.
B.   Annual Work Plan
4.06        Implementation of project activities would be carried out on the
basis of annual plans and budgets prepared by MINAGRI (specifically the FD) by
end October each year.   The work program would be approved by the National
Coordination Committee and would be transmitted to IDA for review and comment
by November 30th of each year.  It would be based on the commune, U. 0 and
prefecture work plans and budgets.  The work plan and budget would include (i)
an evaluation of the year's performance and a discussion of how the proposed
program for the following year builds on that experience; (ii) a statement of



- 41 -
specific objectives, quantified where possible, to be pursued during the year
in question and a description by component of the activities to be undertaken
in order to achieve those objectives; (iii) detailed investment and operating
budgets by component, showing the human, financial, and physical resources
required to carry out the proposed annual program; (iv) staffing and training
plans; (v) a financing plan which indicates the source of funds for items in the
investment and operating budgets (IDA credit categories, Government counterpart
funds, sales of agricultural inputs etc.); (vi) procurement plans for purchases
and works scheduled in the annual work program including type of bidding and
timetables. In addition, a semi-annual progress report relating budgets to work
plan achievements, analyzing problems encountered in implementation and proposed
solutions, should be sent to the National Coordination Committee for review and
then to IDA for comment by July 31st of each year. Assurances were obtained on
these arrangements at negotiations.
C.   Review and Reportint Requirements
4.07        GOR and IDA would review project progress and discuss problems at
least annually. A mid-term review would be held at the end of the third project
year to evaluate the effectiveness of the agricultural services and examine
project impact. During the review, the efficacy of the proposed agricultural
services system and structure would be examined. Should GOR continue to find
it satisfactory it should be in a position to develop a timetable for its
implementation nationwide. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
timetable to extend the agricultural services system nationwide would be
discussed at the mid-term review. The modalities for the mid-term review and
the terms of reference would be agreed between GOR and IDA. The Gitarama mid-
term review which involved Rwandese cadres, and expatriate consultants including
consultants working on other donor financed projects, could serve as a model.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the review arrangements. Upon
project completion the FD assisted by MINAGRI staff including staff of the
Directorate of Control and Evaluation (DCE) would prepare a Proiect Completion
Report. The report would be reviewed by the National Coordination Committee and
submitted '.o IDA no later than six months after the closing date, June 30, 1995.
D.   External Pro-ect Monitoring and Evaluation
4.08        MINAGRI's Directorate of Control and Evaluation is in charge of
external monitoring and evaluation of all MINAGRI projects. The DCE is severely
understaffed and under-equipped. It, therefore, has difficulty fulfilling its
mandate and can only undertake periodic evaluation of a sample of projects. The
Agricultural Services Project will have a strong in-built monitoring and
evaluation system which will provide up-to-date information on the functioning
of the services and on project impact. This information should be made available
to the DCE to facilitate its work. The DCE should participate in some of the
more detailed evaluation studies to be undertaken in the context of the project
(para 3.24) and should also be involved in the joint GOR-IDA annual reviews and
the mid-term review.



- 42 -
V.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Benefits and Justification
5.01        The project is justified bys
(a)   institutional development benefits arising from reorganized
and strengthened field services and a service structure
expected to provide the framework for future coordinated donor
support to extension;
(b)   increased productivity and production due to the dissemination
of improved seeds, better cultural practices, better tools and
modern inputs, and in general, more relevant extension messages
(themselves   the fruit of better adaptive research) and
improved service delivery to farmers;
(c)   financial benefits resulting from eventual savings in the
running costs of a more streamlined extension and adaptive
research service coupled with better cost recovery and
reduction in subsidies;
(d)   improved nutrition as a result of increase in per capita
calorie and protein intake made possible by expected production
increases; and
(e)   the wide distribution of benefits directly covering 168,000
families most of them in absolute poverty.
5.02        The main project benefits are difficult to quantify accurately
because of problems with measurement of the speed at which benefits from support
services would materialize (para. 5.05).   However, they are expected to be
improved farm productivity and production and, as a result, better nutrition and
incomes.   Increases in prcduction would respond to the present problems,
indicated by national statistics, of an apparent stagnation or decline in food
production.   Increased project output would stem from improved and expanded
adaptive research able to provide more relevant extension messages, increased
availability of good quality certified seeds, and improved delivery of extension
and other agricultural support services. As a result of increased production
of traditional crops such as sweet potato, maize, and beans and the introduction
of nutritive crops such as soy beans, families would be able to improve their
per capita calorie and protein intake. A recent (May 1988) MINAGRI study 6/ of
food intake in Rwanda indicates that eight of the twenty two project communes
have an average 122 deficiency in per capita calorie intake and fourteen communes
have a per capita protein deficiency of about 23X. Surpluses over and above
family needs, and increased coffee output would be marketed in the towns and in
nearby communes. To facilitate this, the project will open up access to lakeside
communes by constructing quays and financing some boats. Through the proposed
6/ Delpierre, C. and A. Broecket "Production Agricole en 1986: Bilan
d'Autosufficance Alimentaire Par Commune et par Habitat".



- 43 -
IDA financed Transport Sector project, enclave communes will be opened up for
outside trader
5.03        The project would provide a major boost to MINAGRI's institution
building efforts at the field level. It would make NINAGRI's case stronger to
hasten action to strengthen the ministry at the central level in order to provide
an appropriate framework for the field services.   Action on central level
strengthening has been proceeding rather slowly but is expected to pick up with
the assistance of UNDP. The project will also serve as a valuable tool for donor
coordination, By financing a structure which unifies agricultural services it
will provide donors a means of integrating their interventions in extension and
will eventually provide MINAGRI with a better overview and a better control of
donor activities in the agricultural services subsector.
Financial Benefits and Sustainabilitv
5.04        The proposed  agricultural  services  structur-  wonld  result  in
significant savings in recurrent costs making sustainability of the services
more easily attainable.  The approach taken to calculate financial benefits is
to compare the recurrent costs implied by the ASP with that of ongoing donor
and government extension and adaptive research projects in the project area.
The assumption is that GOR will have to bear all recurrent costs from project
year 5 on.  Recurrent cost figures for most ongoing projects were very difficult
to come by but a rough comparison makes potential savings visible. A total of
10 projects focused on extension or with extension and adaptive research
components presently operate in the five prefectures to be covered by the
project. Most of these projects have been on-going for five or more years.
Recurrent cost figures for 1987 were obtained for the extension and adaptive
research activities of eight of these projects covering 38 communes. To t1g se
were added MINAGRI's own expenditures (prorated from the operating budget b- ed
on information from MINAGRI staff). These figures indicate that a total of about
US$ 6.4 million was spent by donors and MINAGRI in recurrent costs in these
communes (Annex 4, Table 1).  This is about US$ 168,000 per commune per year.
Projected recurrent costs for the proposed structure (including existing and
incremental staff and operating costs) from project year 5 would total US$ 2.98
million for the 22 communes or about US$ 135,000 per commune per year. This
results in savings of about US$ 33,000 per commune per year.  Assuming the same
level of savings on average in the 100 or so communes where donors operate as
in the 38 above (a most plausible assumption), donors and MINAGRI could save up
to US$ 3.3 million a year with the proposed structure. If the recurrent costs
of support to the national seed structure are deducted from the above, the
running costs of the proposed ASP structure would be US$ 128,772 per commune per
year. This can be compared with projected recurrent expenditures for Gitarama,
at full development, of about USS 129,870 per commune per year. The project's
financial benefits are in fact understated by the non-inclusion of cost recovery
items and reductions in subsidies. By promoting the takeover of sector nurseries
by farmer groups zhe project would achieve savings of about US$ 100,000 a year
for the 239 sector nurseries from project year five. Takeover of maintenance,
of communal plantations by the communes from year three would save an additional
US$ 35,000 a year while subsidy reductions for seed production should save about
US$ 82,000 a year. Proposed recovery of direct costs for livestock services,
payment of rent for housing and provision of vehicles on credit would all



- 44 -
strengthen the financial position of the proposed services structure and promote
sustainability.
B. Economic Analysis
5.05        The project does not lend itself to conventional economic analysis
since neither the benefits likely to accrue from improved agricultural services
nor the speed of accrual can be quantified with great accuracy.   However,
relatively modest increases in production due to the project coupled with the
savings from the structure will justify it.
5.06        To test this, an indicative calculation was made of the order of
magnitude of benefits needed to produce a 15% ERR and the likelihood of attaining
those benefits. If the net incremental benefits due to improved agricultural
services were to reach RP 1020 million (USS 13 million) per year by project year
15 i.e. 9% above the estimated 'without project case," discounted economic
benefits would equal discounted costs and the ERR would be 15% (Annex 4, Table
2). Attainment of this level of incremental benefits would require less than
a 1% per annum increase in production and an average yearly adoption rate of 4%
for improvements related to cultural practices for the major food crops and the
main export crop coffee. The projected increases in production and the estimated
adoption rates are conservative. Evideneea from Bank financed extension projects
in other sub-saharan African Countries (e.g. Togo and Central African Republic)
indicate adoption rates for new extension themes of 10-50% among farmers
sampled. 7, If incremental production pertaining to livestock, wood and fruit
trees were also taken into account, a rate of return of 15% would be feasible
even if incremental production from food crops and coffee fell short of the 9%
increase noted above.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.07        The sensitivity tests on the above partial economic analysis were
carried out in terms of switching values for benefits and costs that would reduce
the ERR to 10% (the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Rwanda), or make
the NPVs zero at a 10% discount rate. Results indicate that the ERR is robust.
It would require a 33Z fall in benefits or a 49% increase in costs to reduce the
ERR to 10% (Annex 4).
C. Risks
5.08        The main project risk is the limited availability of university
trained personnel to mann the adaptive research service and the higher echelons
7/ See a) Murphy, Josette et Tim Marchant Le suivi et l'evaluation dans
les oraanismes de vulaarisation Document Technique de la Banque
Mondiale Numero 79F, Juillet 1988; b) Ministere du Developpement Rurale
Togo, 'Formation et Visites - Premier-is Impressions, Projet de
Developpment Rural de Notse (PDRN) 10 October 1988".



- 45 -
of the extension service. Without such personnel, with a fairly high degree of
technical agronomic knowledge, and good analytical capability, the adaptive
research effort may not be sustainable, technical packages may not become
available, and, the quality of extension delivery may remain poor. To minimize
this risk, a great deal of emphasis will be placed on continuous on-the-job
training to upgrade post-secondary staff and render them capable of performing
specialized tasks. In addition, the agricultural services structure has been
designed to place the scarce number of university trained personnel in strategic
positions where they will have the most beneficial impact on research and
extension. For example, the AO research officer at the central level will ensure
that links with ISAR are maintained and research findings are transmitted to the
field level and vice-versa so as to enrich the content of extension.   In
addition, the AO deputy to the coordinator at the prefecture level will help
ensure that the strong links between extension, research and monitoring and
evaluation are recognized ty officers within the structure and maintained.
5.09        A risk related to the proposed structure is that donors may be very
slow or unwilling to work within the new framework reducing expected savings from
adoption of the service structure countrywide. MINAGRI is undertaking an effort
to convince donors but needs to be more specific about how each donor project
should fit into the proposed structure and the time frame for doing this. The
mid-term review will provide an opportunity for MINAGRI to re-assess the
structure and be more specific about its implementation (para. 4.07). MINAGRI
should take advantage of the present good faith of the donors and be bold in its
attempt to rationalize the use of grant and loan funds destined for agricultural
services.   Continued IDA discussions with donors to explain the proposed
structure will support MINAGRI's efforts and minimize this risk.
D.   Environmental Impact
5.10        The project would be highly beneficial to the environment.   The
underlying concern of extension is the need to improve or maintain soil fertility
in the delicate environmental situation in which Rwanda finds itself today. The
project would continue the extension of erosion control techniques and seek ways
to improve on these.   It would encourage the practice of farm and communal
forestry (looking particularly at the use of appropriate agro-forestry species);
it would help develop composting and other natural means of improving soil
fertility. Although farmers would be encouraged to use pesticides and chemical
fertilizer, where appropriate, these would be restricted to those which have
proven effective in the local context and have no known negative environmental
effects.   With respect to agro chemicals,  the Banks guidelines on their
availability and use will be followed.



- 46 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01        The following asgreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)   At the project mid-term review GOR and IDA will review.the
impact of fertilizer on crop yields in the project area, and
will, further, evaluate fertilizer pricing policy with a view
to improving recovery of fertilizer costs including retail
margins (para. 2.11).
(b)   GOR would finance its share of project operating costs, not
presently financed in the operating budget, in the development
budget for the first three years of the project to allow
MINIFIN time to adjust its operating budget procedures. After
this period, financing of operating costs would be transferled
to the recurrent budget to assure sustainability of the
services. GOR contributions would appear as a line item in
the operating budget (paras. 3.05 and  3.40).
(c)   Vehicles would be made available to project staff on credit.
Repayment amounts calculated on the basis of replacement value
would be paid to MINAGRI on the basis of loan agreements
acceptable to IDA. The repayments would be deposited in an
account to be managed by MINAGRI and used to purchase new
vehicles as required (para. 3.05).
(d)   Housing would be made available to higher level personnel at
a rental fee equivalent to the estimated annual maintenance
cost of the buildings (not less than 1X of investment costs
on an annual basis). The rent would be collected by MINAGRI
on the basis of lease agreements satisfactory to IDA. The
money would be deposited into an account to be managed by
MINAGRI for said maintenance purposes. Prefecture coordinators
would make requests to MINAGRI for maintenance funds as needed
(para. 3.07).
(e)   MINAGRI will ensure that farmer groups are trained to take over
the forestry sector nurseries to be financed under the project.
By the third project year (unless IDA shall otherwise agree),
1/3 of the 239 sector nurseries will be completely operated
by farmer groups, 213rds by the fourth year with complete
coverage by the fifth year (para. 3.14).
(f)   The implementation role of the communes (including farmer
groups  in  these  communes)  in  the  project,  financing
arrangements and responsibilities including the role of the
project itself will be clearly spelled out in an agreement to
be signed between the agricultural services (MINAGRI) and at
least 7 of the communes or farmer groups in the communes and
approved by IDA no later than June 30, 1990 (para. 3.14).
(g)   No later than six months after credit effectiveness GOR will
provide plans satisfactory to IDA for the management of the



- 47 -
Gishlyita Chick transit center including proposals for its
eventual transfer to the private sector or to farmer
cooperative groups (para. 3.15).
(h)   MINAGRI will identify an agro-economist to be trained in
monitoring and evaluation by the end of the second project
year. After short-term training the agro-economist will assist
the FD to coordinate monitoring and evaluation attivities
(para. 3.24).
(i)   Not later than June 30, 1990, MINAGRI would transmit to IDA
for review and comment draft technical criteria on seed
production and certification prepared by SSS and, not later
than January 31, 1991, (and in the event that the seed
legislation has not yet become law) MINAGRI will issue a
ministerial   decision   governing   seed   production   and
certification and empowering the SSS to effectively control
seed quality and certify seeds (para. 3.25).
(j)   GOR will recover 65X of the direct cost of seed production by
December 31, 1990, 801 by December 31, 1991 and 1001 by
December 31, 1992 (para. 3.29).
(k)   Not later than March 31, 1990, MINAGRI should sign contracts
with the BP and the NGOS involved in the project (except for
KORA whose work is still to be evaluated) to implement project
activities. The contracts should be approved by IDA (para.
3.31).
(1)   Terms of reference for studies financed under the project would
be agreed by GOR and IDA.   Consultants will be selected
according to IDA guidelines (para. 3.37).
(m)   Goods and services under the pr.aject would be procured
according to IDA guidelines, LCB would be carried out under
procedures acceptable to IDA (paras. 3.41 and 3.42).
(n)   Disbursement procedures would be followed (para. 3.44).
(o)   By the end of project year three GOR's public expenditure
program and budgetary procedures for the agricultural sector
would be reviewed by GOR and IDA to ensure their adequacy for
continued funding of the field services during and after the
project (para. 3.45).
(p)   GOR would open project accounts ising counterpart funds in
banks acceptable to IDA at the prefecture and sous-prefecture
levels for payment of expenditures amounting in aggregate to
no more than USS 20,000 at the prefecture level and US$ 5,000
at the sous-prefecture (U.0.) level. In the event that there
are no banks at the sous-prefecture level, the U.0 account can
be opened at a prefecture level banks acceptable to IDA. The
accounts would be replenished from counterpart funds as



- 48 -
necessary by the project financial manager and upon receipt
of supporting documentation (para. 3.45).
(q)   The special account will be managed by the FD and the project
financial manager who will be co-signatories to the account.
In their absence, checks on the account will be co-signed by
those acting for them. The counterpart fund account will also
be jointly managed by the FD and the project financial manager
with similar arrangements for co-signing of checks. Checks
written on the operating account at the prefecture level will
be jointly signed by the prefecture coordinator and accountant
and at the sous-prefecture level by the U.O. coordinator and
accountant (para. 3.47).
(r)   All project accounts including accoaats for the seed farms as
well as the special account would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors' TOR would include
a specific audit of the SOEs. Detailed TORs would be submitted
for IDA's approval by December 31st of each year.   Audit
reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of the financial year and IDA would review all project
accounts and records (para. 3.48).
(s)   MINAGRI will appoint one FD and one central level financial
manager for the ASP and Gitarama projects.  The FD should
preferably be a higher level cadre from MINAGRI in the
Agricultural Production Directorate and/or familiar with the
proposed Agricultural Services Structure. Appointment of the
FD should be in common accord with IDA (para. 4.01).
(t)   MINAGRI will maintain at all times a core staff (at the minimum
the FD and his staff) at the central level that will provide
support to the field services (para. 4.02).
(u)   Preparation of annual work plans and budgets.  Preparation of
a semi-annual progress report to be reviewed by the National
Coordination Committee and sent to IDA for comment by July 31st
of each year (para. 4.06).
(v)   Annual review of project progress by GOR and IDA no later than
November 30th of each year. A mid-term review by the end of
the third project year.   As part of the mid-term review,
MINAGRI would examine the efficacy of the proposed agricultural
services system and structure. Should it be found effective,
MINAGRI would develop a timetable for its implementation
nationwide (para. 4.07).
6.02        The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)   Formal appointment of the prefecture coordinators (para. 3.09).
(b)   Appointment of the FD, and recruitment of the financial and
adaptive research officers (para. 3.10).



- 49 -
(c)   Signing of an accord between ISAR and the extension service
detailing the respective duties of each party with regard to
adaptive research. The accord should be acceptable to IDA
(para. 3.20).
(d)   Opening of the counterpart fund account and deposit of an
initial amount of RF 15 million corresponding to four months
of GOR's portion of expenditures for the project excluding
salaries and transport allowances (para. 3.45).
(e)   Constitution of the National Coordination Committee (para.
4.03).
6.03        With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 19.9 million to the Government of Rwanda.



-  50-            Awe.s
-la         -                             T- -1-
a. Rs~~iUF  11T  -ii- l 
~.Ei.iasnt                      .                                        I      t
Coa.ift.tf...........
Cintti.ft                    am *                  *t1      *         *'
d. toy       e   Og*       
artant.*s      .ml  *.
elita im
l. wL"Ift                           I       I      a        a         U 
A    .it.    CIg$t                                                           a, . .gr  _
Ubtse        t                    .     _
0 Ce1. kaesteat                        -
Pr.f.ata, Coul.tto.==
0.0 Ce"inatna                           -                             -
.4*  -e                                          -   --
Sataff1  {
%stoonalrel                                                          _
= Ivtrt @atc ftiea.
h i. matses ive.                            -
atath" atMtiatvt                                    -i-t-
WCoa.atef wicth  .ti
tirea  d git_O snp t           *^         
I                                        eesw~~~~~~~~~~~~aaltatiea fa n                                I s
.pptofUit* Ct1  tats
C.Aa O Coordnator
?Cenwa ovtt  1.JU   ibtts*
lTarzsad.l".                       Ijd
GiO-$ $at: ata 0a-a
iOn  tot iDStelbu tt
I                                         Xds~~~~~~~~~~otftt s ts_ of Xf _ I           @       I      
I.t.t..".        .I
"mte   * d ttS  *                     .       -    _8_;  
Iouisape.iits  la     tIpIr.
*.bti.      4 of waslaw     I        I                I                I      I
t~ ~ ~ ~~~~~gn.. Usus" * i..e.. .,.                                                      -   -     
__________ .IeFfziO                  I_          
0".vdpaa  la  l.df! M@
*.1s,   IvlgaA    IHrso  i
t tpreol    &tw  tag|                                         l       g    
I.  _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ __R-t
^';"earc                                                             I
S.vi.    ea4d  i..|.;
:.stwiar     d                     t tti ri e-
9ff..bjb     I U                        1-      1-       L        L
flevelopmsat Uplagatan Vaz
.  rmtiatIC6410 of ira.
Stgu4.clt SinI 4 oo,g:-
Us.  ofl.lat 1isfl,
S"d 5 pgt4*
TS. :tqa eti 6oa 
Adolptiv  n   .tz 
Bealsau  loc Cassfcel.



-51 -
Annex 2. Table 1
EXISTING AND INCRSHENTAL PROJECT STAFF
< -   -----    Incremental------------->
Exist. Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5
A.    Structure Centrale
Comptable A0                      0    1       1       1      1      1
Adjt. Comptable A2                0    0       0       1      1      1
Fonci. Dirigeant AO               1
Adjt. Recherche-
Developpement AO                0    1       1       1      1      1
B.    Promotion
Resp. Prom. AO                    0    5       5       5      5      5
Adjt. Resp. A2                    0    5       5       5      5      5
Aide Cptable A2                   0    5       5       5      5      5
C.    Vulgar./Prefectures
Adjt. Coordinr. AO                0    1       2       3      4      5
Cptables Pref. AO                 0    2       3       4      5      5
Spec. Organization-Form. AO       0    1       2       3      4      5
Forestier Pref. AO                0    5       5       5      5      5
Coordinateur AO                   5
D.    Vulear./U.O.
Chef volet Elev. A2               0    2       3       4      5      7
Cptables A2                       0    7       7       7      7      7
Chef volet Agri. A2               7
Responsable U.0. AO               7
E.    Vul ar./Communes
Resp. Communal  A2               11    5      11      11     11     11
Veterinaires    A2                5    8      17      17     17     17
Veterinaires    A3               22    4       4       4      4      4
Forestiers      A2                0   11      22     22      22     22
Chefs Serv. Ag. A2               22
F.    Semences
U.O.
Agronomes A2                      0    1       1       1      1      1
Personnel A3                      0    4       4      4       4      4
Sta. Buparama
Directeur AO                      0    1       1       1      1      1
Agronome A2                       0    1        1      1      1      1
TOTAL                                  80   70      100    105    109    113
of which:
AO                               13   17      20      23     26     28
A2                               45   45      72      74     75     77
A3                               22    8       8       8      8      8



- 52 -
Annex 2. Table 2
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEHETS (USS THOUSANDS)
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter              Diab.           Cumulative
1990 March 31                             200                  200
June  30                             200                  400
September 30                         250                  650
December  31                         250                  900
1991 March 31                             700                1,600
June  30                             700                2,300
September 30                         950                3,250
December  31                         950                4,200
1992 March 31                           1,000                5,200
June  30                           1,000                6,200
September 30                       1,200                7,400
December  31                       1,200                8,600
1993 March 31                           1,200                9,800
June  30                           1,200               11,000
September 30                       1,100               12,100
December  31                       1,100               13,200
1994 March 31                           1,050               14,250
June  30                           1,050               15,300
September 30                       1,000               16,300
December  31                       1,000               17,300
1995 March 31                             900               18,200
June  30                             900               19,100
September 30 (1)                     800               19,900
(1) FY 1996



- 53 -
Ann"x 2, Table 3
NIAGRT PRPOSALS FOR DONOR SUPPORT TO THE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES STRUCTURE
Nouvell. R;partition des conea des Proits Aatrieoles
PREFECTURE     PROJET                  ZONE A ENCADRER       ORGANIZATION
KIGALI           BGM/Bugesera         Kanzene-Gashora        Le projet intervient d6ja dans
la zone et is phase en prepara-
tion doit 'tre concue de fagon
a ce que 1. projet lnitie le
dtmarrage de la structure
d'encadrement de I'unite oper-
ationnelle Kanazi.
KIGALIJEST            Butamwa-Kanombe-       Le projet encadre d6j& la
Rubungo-Bicumbi-      plupart des communes de la zone.
Gikoro-Gikomero-      Il devra, dan  la nouvelle
Nyarugenge            phase, s0itendre sur la commune
Nyarugenge pour assurer le
d;marrage de l'unite opiration-
nelie Nyarugenge.  Les secteurs
administratifs situes en ville
seront exclus.
KIGALI/NORD             Rushashi-Musasa        Le projet encadre d6ja 3 de ces
Tare-Shyorongi        4 communes.  Il devra slors
asetendre our Shyorongi pour
appuyer la structure d'encadre-
ment de l'unite Rushashi.
GITARAMA      PROJET AGRICOLE         Toute la prefec-       Le projet a ete initialement
DE GITARAMA             ture Gitarama a        congu pour operer dans le
lexception des       nouveau systeme d'lintervention.
communes Murama-      Il devrs alors s'etendre Kigoma-
Tambwe et             progressivement pour encadrer
Ntongve.              aussi les unites operationnelles
Kiyumba et Gacurabwenge.
PAP                     Hurama-Kigoma-         Le projet qui intervient d;ji
NYABISINDU              Tambwe et Ntongwe      sur 3 dres 4 communes, devra
s'ttendre sur Tambwe pour mieux
encadrer l'unite operationnelle
de Ruhango. La nouvelle phase
devra done privoir cette



- 54 -
PR   CTURE       PROflT                  ZO   A  IICADREU           ORGIIZATION
intigration oa alora cider
l'unit; au PAG.
BUTARE        PAP                      Nyabiaindu-Ntayazo    Le projet qui devra aussi
NYABISINDIU              Rusatira-Nuyltra      encadrer une unit; op;ration-
nelle dans la prefecture de
Gitarama (Ruhango) devra
abandonner lea communes Karama
et Rukondo de la Prefecture
Gikongoro et integrer dans lea
zones de Butare lea communes
Muyira et Rusatira. De co fait
il pourra appuyer l'unite
operationnelle Nyabisindu.
Projet D.G.B.           Nyalkcu-Runyinya       Le projet encadre daja quelques
8uye-NgaaIm-Hbazi-    comunes danm chacune des 3
Shyanda-Ndora-        unites operationnelles constitu-
Nugana-Gishanw-       ant cette zone   Dana la
Kigemlb-Kibayl-       nouvelle phase en itude, il
Muyaga et Nyaru-       faudralt etendre sa zone
hengeri.              d'action de facon a encadrer
compiltement lea unites Busoro
et Gisagara.
Projet d'intensi-       Mugusa                 Le projet devrait s'occuper
fication Agro-Sylvo                            d'activit;s spacifiques danas le
Sylvo-Pastoral                                 cadre d'appui a l';quipe
Hugua.                                         comunale de vulgarisation.
GIKONGORO     Developpement            Nshili-Kivu            Apres la phase de demarrage, le
Agricole  Ushili-        Mubuga-Rwauiko        projet devrait s'etendre sur les
Kivu                                           comsunes Hubuga et Rwamiko pour
appuyer l'unite operationnelle
MUNINI.
PIA Gikongoro           Rukondo-Karama-        Dan  la nouvelle phase en pravi-
Kinyamakara-Muda-     sion, le projet devra abandonner
somwa-Nyamagabe       les conmes Husange et Karambo
au projet Crete Zaire-Nil,
Rwamiko et Mubuga au projet
DANK. I1 prendra au projet PAP
Nyabisindu les communes Karama
et Rukondo et integrera la
commune Mudasomwa. De ce falt
il aidera l'unite opirstionnelle
Karaba a d;marrer.



- 55 -
PRMFECTUEK       PROJ=T                   ZONI A ENCADRER            ORGUNIZATION
Crete Zaire-Nil          Muko-Musebeya-         Le projet dolt etre restructure
Nusange-Karumbo        a l'avenir pour comprendre
toutes les communes de l'unite.
I1 cedera la commune Gisovu au
PCCV et prendra les comunes
Musange et Karambo au PIA pour
pouvoir encadrer l'unite
opirationnelle Kaduha.
Projet Vivrder                                  Mener des actions spicifiques au
Mudasoma                                        niveau conunsal.
CYANGUGU      Projet Cafi              Cytmbogo-Kamembe-       Le projet encadrait dij;  lea
Gafunso-Kagano-        comunms.  La nouvelle phase en
Kirambo-Gatare.        priparation devra voir lea
possibilitis de demsrrar les
deux unitis opirationnelles
Kamembe et Kirambo. La commune
Gishoma sera rattachie * une
nouvelle unita a crier incluant
aussi Bugarsma-Karengera et
Nyakabuye par spres.
KIBUYE        Projet Cafi at            Gishyits-Gisovu        Le projet encadrait dija les
Cultures Vivri;res       et Rwamatamu            emunes Gishyita et Rwaatamu.
La nouvelle phase en priparation
devra aussi integrer la commune
Gisovu pour la dimarrage do
l'uniti Gishyita. La commune
Rutairo doit itre laissio une
autre unite operationnelle non
appuyie par le PCCV.
Projet Agricole          Mwendo-Kivumu-         Le projet encadre diji 5 des 6
de Kibuye                Bwakira-Gitesi-        coamunes.  I1 doit prendre la
Mabanza-Rutsiro        comune Rutsiro au PCCV et
appuyer le dimarrago des deux
unitis opirationnelles Birambo
at Gitesi.
GISENYI       IPV KARAGO               Karago-Giciye-          Le projet qui encadrait dija les.
Gaseke                 communes Karago et Giciye dolt
prendre la commune Gaseke au
projet DRI Ramba-Gaseke et lu4
laisser les communms Satinakyi
et Kibilira. Ainsi il appuyera



- 56 -
PRUPCTUIZ        PRWCT                   ZONE A ZNCADRER           ORGANIZ&TIOI
l demarrage de 1'uniti
opirationnelle Kabaya.
DRI RAMIA               Ramba-SatInskyi-       Dans le 2eme phase, 1. pro4et
Kibilivr              devra etre concu de f-con a co
qu'il apputo l d "arrage de
l'unit- op;ratio4nelle
Ngororero. Abel devra-t-1i
abandonner la commune Gesoke au
projet IPV Karago-Gielye et lul
prendre les commues Satinskyl
et Kiblibra.
Projet C-fe et          Kansma-Kayove          Dans as nouvelle phase en
Cultures Vivriires      et Nyamyumba           preparation le projet devra
s'occuper do la comnne Kanama
et abandonner cello de Rubavu
afin de miaux appuyer le
temarrage de l'unit
operationnelle Rayove. Le
projet intervient dejii dans 2
des 3 commes de V'unite.
GBK Gisenyi             Rubevu-Rwerere-        La projet GBK dolt tre
Mutura                reor4ente de fagon a ce quPli
s'occupe de la vulgarisation
agricole. De ce fait comme Ll
travaille dans loa commuaes
Rwerere et Mutura 4i dolt aussl
s'etendre sur Rubavu pour mieux
appuyer l'unlt; operationnelle
Rubavu.
RUHENGERI     PROJET CYGAND           Cyabingo-Gatonde       Le projet qul inltialement
Ndusu-Nyarutovu       travaillait our 3 des 4 communes
doit s0itendre sur Nyarutovu
pour appuyer le d"emrrage de
l'unite operationnelle Busengo.
I1 do4t mleux orienter ses
activites et prevolr le
financement en consequence.
nAmelioration de        Nyamutera-Nyakl-       Le projet na& pas encore la
productizn              nama-Kigombe-          demarre. La premlere phase dolt
agrlcole dens 4         Ruhondo                alors preparer la mise en place
communes de                                    de l'unlte operationnelle de



- 57 -
WEnCTURK         PROJT                   ZONt A hUC*DBA            0RUIZ&TION
Ruhongeri.                                     Kigoube.
Robolimnt               Nyamugali-Cyoru-       Co projet devra initior la
Iyamugall-Cyoru-        Butaro                 relevo des actions sp6cifiques
Butaro                                         de rebolsement par l'unit;
op;ratlonnllo Kirambo.
BYUMBA        D.R.B.                   Buyoga-Tu.ba-         Le projet a'etend d6ja our sept
Cyungo-Kibali-        doe onse coaunes.  Daw la
lnyaml--Hukarango     douxlme phase, cett- zone devra
Dwisigo-Kivuyo-       *';tendre pour occuper *ussl lee
Cyumba-KRyoobe-       c      amuna. Rutare-Cyungo-Tumba et
lutaro.               Buyoga.  La structure pout d6j;
etre lniti6e danm l'unlt;
operatlonnelle Kiball quo Io
projet enc-dro actuallement.
Projet Git--Rutar-      Giti-Huhura-           Dana la nouv.lle phase a
Murambi               proparer, le projet Giti-Rutare
devra laisser la commune Rutare
au pojet DUB et int6gror les
commuzes Muhura et Murambi pour
mieux assurer l d6uarrage de
l'uniti op4rationnello do
murambi.
Projet Agrn-Pastoral   Nuvumba-Ngarama-        La nouvelle phase en preparation
do Kutara               Gituza                 devra otondre le projet sur la
commme gituza afin d'linitier le
demarrage do l'unit;|
oporationnolle Ngarama.
KIBUNGO       BGI/Gisaka               Blrenga-Rukara-       Le projet oncadre actuollem_nt
Rusumo                cette zone.  La nouvolle phase
en preparation doit prevoir le
domarrage do cotte unit6
oporationnolle do Kirehe.
KIBUNWGO III            Sake-Nugosera-         Le projet oncadre actuellement
Kigarama-Kabaro-      cette zone, la nouvelle phase en
ndo-Muhasi-           proparation dolt prevolr le
Rutonde-Kayonza-      d_marrage do c0o deux unites
Rukara.               oporationnelles Kigarams et
Rwamagaa.



- 58 -
Cette nouvelle repartition pormettra de definir les projets non
pas en fonction de la zone geographique mais en fonction des objectif. a
atteindre dans la region encadree. Lea structures d'intervention soutiendront
l'augmentation de la production pour les cultures les plus rentables dans la
region agro-climatique de leur ressort. L'initiation sectorielle et
l'approache par filiere seront priviligiees.
Les projets agricoles seront des projets d'appui a la structure
existante et chaque intervenant s'occupera de la promotion d'une ou de
quelques cultures bien determ$inees, en voillant a s'assurer de l'appro'vi-
sionnement en intrants de production, de la formation et de 1'encadrement
adequats, ainsi que de l'amelioration de la qualite de stockage et des
circuits de commercialisation.



- 59 -
Annex 2. Table 4
RWANDA NINAGRI BUD_GET EXPENDITURES (CURRENT RE MIMLION)
B.0.        B.D.        TOTAL        DEFLATOR
1984                 725t         624         1,349         98.30
1985                 8411         496         1,337        100.00
1986                 973f         747         1,720         98.92
1987                 950          747         1,697        102.98
1988*                849*         717*        1,566*         NIA
(#) - Data from IMF documents.
(*) - Projections.
Source: Ministry of Finance and MINAGRI.



- 60 -
Annex L !kS bl f
Tol GITARAM AND AL emv s !C   ASIC STRUCTUR/ISTA1FIUO  o4!n
Central Level           Gita-r--  Pl-na3 d              6ltoES   Actusl                Aari ulturl Services !Irowusi
I AO Fonctionnaire Dirigeont  1 AO Fonctionnaire Dirigeent  1 AO Fonctionnaire Dirigeant
1 Financisl Mana8gr            1 Finanecil Manager            1 AO Adaptive Research Officer
1 Car                          1 AO Chief Accountant          1 Financial Manager
[Unfilled1                  1 AO Chief Accountent
2 Cars                         1 AllA2 Accountant
3 Cars
Prefecture Level         1 AO Coordinator               1 AO Coordinator               1 AO Coordinator
1 A2 Devuty                    1AO MIS Officer                1 AO Deputy to the Coordinator
1 AO Accountant                1 A2 Accountant                  in charge Liaison M&E, Adaptive
1 AO Adaptive Research         1 Car                           Research, gxtenion
Officer                                                     1 AO Forester
Cars, 1 Motorcycle                                          1 AO Training Specialist
1 A2 Accountant
1 Car
4 Motorcycles
Preeotion                1 AO Prmotion Officer          1 AO Promotion Officer         1 AO Promotion Officer
I AO Inputs Offieer            1 AO Inputs Officer            I A2 Inputs Officer
1 AO Officer in eharge of      1 A2 Marketing Assistant       1 A2 Accountant
Studies                      1 A2 Seeds Assistant           1 Car
1A2 Documentalist              1 A2 Accountant                1 Motorcycle
1AO Seeds Officer              1 A2 Doeumentation
1 A2 Seeds Assistant             Specialist
1 A2 Accountant                1 A3 Archivists
4 Cars                         1 Al Officer in charge of
1 Pick-up Van                    Studies
3 Cars and 3 Motorcycles
Oterational Unit         1 AO Coordinator               1 AO Coordinator               1 AO Coordinator
1 AO Agricultural Officer      1 AO Agricultural Officer     1 A2 AgrL.ultural Officer
1 AO Livestock Officer         1 AO Livestock Officer           [Adaptive Research MLE]
1 AO Forester                  1 Al Forester                  1 A2 Livestock Officer
4 Cars                         1 AO Adaptive Research           (Adaptive Research MLE]
Officer                      1 A2 Accountant
1 A2 Farm-trials Officer       1 Car
1 A4 Farm-trials Observer     4 Motorcyles
1 A2 Accountant
4 Cars,   Motorcycle
1 Bicycle
Camune Level             1 A2 Communal Coordinator      1 A2 Comunnal Coordinator      1 A2 Communal Coordinator
1 A3 Agricultural Officer      1 A3 Agricultural Technician  1 A2 Chief Agricultural Services
1-2 A21A3 Livestock            1-2 A3 Veterinarians           1-3 A3 Veterinarians
Officers                     1-2 A4 Aide Veterinarians      1 A2 Forester
1 Motorcycle per Officer      1 Motorcycle per Officer        11-2 Forestry Monitors] as needed
(1 Beekeeping Monitor] as needed
1 Motorcycle per Officer
Sector Level             1 basic extension agent        1 basic extension agent        1 basic extension agent per
per sector or per 750          per sector or per 750          sector or per 750 families.
families.                     families.                       1 motorcycle or bicycle per
1 motorcycle or bicycle       1 motorcycle or bicyle per    agent.
per agent.                     agent.



- 61 -
Annex 2. Table 6
INFRASTRUCTURES ROUTINRES ET PONTS
PREFECTURE CYANOUCU
No.   CO1 MU                   NATURE DES TRAVAUX                   LONGUEUR
1.    GISHOMA     Creation d'une piste RUHOKO-BUTAMBAMO               50 km
Amolioration de la re-Ite RUBUGU-KAGOMERO            5 km
2.    GAFUNZO     Creation de la route MUKOMA-NYABITE ERI             25 km
Amelioration de la route BUSHENGE-NYAMIRUNDI        15 km
3.    CYIMBOGO    Reparation de 4 ponts                            a prociser
4.    GISUMA      Creation - construction de 13 ponts                101 m
5.    GATARE      Creation des pistes BAMBIRO-MWASA et
KARAMBO-RUZIZI                                    15 km
6.   K RIRAMBO    Creation des pistes NYARUVUGO-JURWA,
SUSA-NYAKABINGO et NYAGISASA-KIVOGA               17 km
7.    KARENGERA   Creation de piste BWEYEYE, GASUMO, BUTARE,
KANYINYA et KARENGERA                         a preciser
Amelioration de routes existantes                   80 km
Reparation de 5 ponts                               30 m
8.   BUGARAMA    Creation de piates BUNYERERI-KIBANGIRA            a preciser
Construction de 5 ponts                             45 m



- 62 -
anoi 2. S bl 7
PROGRAM  DR- PO&TM  POOR LA MISE     PLE 
PROJECT SERVICES AGMICOLES. (ANNIR 1)
A-7 jour. de planification do. formations at conception des outlls par l';quipe centrale et
les 2 spocialistes *vant le pr mler cycle.
B-
Cycle   Jours          Participant.                  Nombro              Antmateura appui
1       5       Coord. Prefee.                          5        Equipe MINAGRI
Adjoint coord. prefec.                  5
Adjoint promotion                       5        Experts (2)
Resp. communication                     5
Forestier prof.                         5
Cherchaur ISAR                     1 ; 4
2 6- 30
5        (Equipe U.0. ) Bugosera                 3        Equipe HINAGRI + Expert.
(Equipes cor.)                        24
S        (Equip. U.0. ) Gisaka                   3        Equipe HINACRI + Expert.
(Equip.s com.)                        24
5        (Equipe U.0. ) Rayove                   3        Equipo MINAGRI + Expert.
(Equipes com.)                        24
2               (Equip. U.0. ) Rwessoro                 6        Equip. MINAGRI + Expert.
(Equip.s cor.) Gishyita               40
5        (Equipe U.0. ) Cyangugu                 3        Equip. MMIAGRI + Expert.
(Equipe con. )                        40
5        (Equipe U.O. ) Bugumya                  3        Equip. HINAGRI + Expert.
(Equipe coa. )                        24
197
10        Enceadreur. (Bugesora)                 39        Cadres prof. Equipe
et U.0.      MINAGRI
10        Encadroura (Gisaka)                    38
10        Enecadreurs (Gishyita)                 20
3     10        Encadreurs (Kayove)                    36
10        Encadreurs (Rwessero)                  33
10        Encadreurs (Cyangugu)                  52*                       a
10        Encadrours (Bugurya)                   30
248
1        seminaire do sonsibilisation (dureo 1 jours) sera organis6 au niveau
de chaque U.0. pour lea autoritis communales.
*        Vu le nombre ileve d'encadreurs ; Cyangugu il y aura lieu d'engager 2
stages a leur intention.



- 63 -
Annox 2. Tab.. Z
POGRAK AUNUL DM MON 0TION PWMR LU
PUWCCT SERVICUS AGUCOLt8, EL4=E 2 A 5)
Type do                                         Nombro      Nombre do    Duree
Niveau  formation         Lilu        Participants        de part.    Cycle        (jours)
Sectour Riunion quina.   Co.m.        Encedrour             248         26            1
Rocyclage        Prof.      Encadrour              248          1            5
Commune Reunions mona.   V.0.         Cadres cam.           176          12           1
Recyclage        Prof.      Cadres com.            176           1           5
U.0.    R"union men.      Prof.       Cadres U.0.            21          12           1
Raunions Trim.   NINAGRI    RQ8. U.0.                7          4            3
St-ges           MMI/ISAR   Cadres U.0.             21          1            4
Voyage d'etude   Strang.    Cadres U.0.              2          1          1 5
Via. Chec. ISAR  U.0.       Chercheurs               7         24            1
Prof.    Reunion mena.    Prof.      Cadres pref.            20          12           1
Reunions Trim.   MINAGE!    Cadres pref.            20          4            3
Stages           UNR/ISAR   Cadres prof.            10          1            4
Voyage d'tude   Etrang.   Cadres prof.               2          1          1 5
Forma. etrang.   Etrang.    Cadres prof.             2          1         3 0
Central  Riunion mono.    Pref.       Equipe MINAGRI          2          2            3
Voyage d'itude   Etrang.    Equipe MINAGRI           2          1          1 5
Forma. itrang.   Etrang.    Equipe MIRAGRI           1          1         3 0
_    _   I. _   _     _ -  _     _ - ___                     _                        _
Remaraues
1) riunions de quizaine pour les encadreuro ; la commune  seront
analysis lea themes ; diffuser pour la prochaine qtiitzaine compte tenu des
oxpiriences de la quinsaine passie; une heure sera riservee aux problomes
administratifa. Elle seront aniim.es par lea responsables comounaux et appuyees
par l'unite opirasionnele.



- 64 -
2) les reunions aux autres niveaux sont des reunions de concertation
pourraient etre appuyees par 1' equipe centrale ou par des confarenciers
exterieurs.
3)  le contenu des recyclages annuels sera fixe en fonction des
besoins en formation complementaire.
4) Voyage a l'tranger il a ete prevu que 2 cadres de chacun des
niveaux unite operationnelle, prafecture et aquipe centrale puisse r4aliser
annuellement un voyage d'etudes a l'atranger otu des projets semblables de
vulgarisation sont en fonctionnement. Duree de ce voyage 15 jours.
5) Etudes a l'etranger. Dans la preparation des couts il a ete
egalement retenu une formation annuelle a l'exterieur de 30 1ours pour un cadre
de l'unite centrale ainsi que pour deux cadres du niveau prefectoral.
6)  Experts.   On devrait prevoir une assistance technique do 2
exports pendant un mois par anne. pour aider les cadres nationaux dans la
formation et l'evaluation au niveau des structures pour dynamiser et adapter le
systeme et son contenu le long des annees du projet. Cette assistance se situe
au niveau de la vulgarisation, de la rechercheldeveloppement et du suivi-
avaluation.



- 65 -
Annex 22 Table 8
PROJECT    FECTURES. SOUS PREFECTURES (U. Os)
AND CO.MMNES
Prefecture        SOUJ Prefecture         UnItt Oierationelle     Communes
Cyangugu          Rwesero                 Kirambo                 Kagano
Gatare
Kirambo
Cyangugu          To be created           Kamembe                 Kamembe
Cyimbogo
Gafunzo
Gishoma
Gisuma
Cyangugu          Bugumya                 Nyakabuye               Karengera
Bugarama
Nyakabuye
Kibuye            Gishyita                Gishyita                Rwamatanu
Gishyita
Gisenyl           To be created           Kayove                  Rubavu
Nyamyumba
Kayove
Kigali            Kananzi                 Gashora                 Kanzenze
Ngenda
Gashora
Kibungo           Kirehe                  Birenga                 Birenga
Rukira
Rusumo



- 66 -
Annex 3. Table 1
RWDU
AB. SR'ICE P wET
Prgt Cowswts bi Yer
Totals Includird Continkncis                         Totals Includini Continuncies
(FRU 0'00)                                           US'0 00)
190      19        9m      tm        19       Total      199   t11    1m        193   1994   Total
Z3385228 S          'azmc~   Mmkn=mexammmafn  anaU   in.. .2U2.Z   2222  =Z=UfZ   -----
A. STUTCtE CEnALE             52,493.1 2765.6  33,485.5 36,651.7  17,862.6  168,358.5   681.7  361.9  434.9  476.0  232,0 29186p5
R. UMMSATICoH/EFECTRES    72.776.1  49t684.1  32,487.0 359301.3 55,136.0  245,384.5   945.1  645.2  421.9  458.5  716.1 3M196.8
r. I     SATIONIUO            979630.5 104604.4  799M5  92,12t.1  47,162.7  416,717.2 19267.9 1,361.t  974.0 1196.4  612.5 5,411.9
n. n!CARISATION/COMLIES       '89555.6 62,241.6  499212.1  57,190.3 57,123.9  304:323.5 1,020,2  908.3  639.1  742.7  741.9  3 952.3
F.  ILGSATIONISECTEURS        94,355.1  48,890.0  51,221.0  486691.4 50773.2  283w930*7 1:095.5  634.9  665.2  632.4  659.4 34687.4
F. POMnaT   A/PREFECn  S      123,408.8 29,610.4 66WPM4 47814.4 44527.4  311t533.4  19602.7  38.6  859.4  621.0  57.3  4,045.9
". DSEICES UIiTE PER          29.57.9  7*017.5  5755.5  3#748.7  3,907.5   49387.1   376.1   91.1   74.7   48.7   50.7   641.4
1-ElC  STATION BLOM"           7:356.4 559334.8  6,141.6 45,834.9  6,757,3  121,431.0    95.5  718.6   79.8  595:3   87:8  1:577.0
1. FIBEVA6E                   70,610.5 U188B0.1 31,918.1  3,030.2  19724.2  149,163.1   917.0  543.9  414.5   39.4   22.4 19937.2
t. ROISEN1ENTEPINIERE         464075.1  48,547.8 39,35.5 41,497.3 43,222.6  219,178.3   598.4  630.5  517.3  538.9  561.3 2,846.5
K. ETUDES                     22.137.6  6,877.3 11,708.1 10,365.4         -   51088.3   287.5   89.3  152.1  134.6         -   663.5
Total PROJECT COSTS            684,356.5 482,753.6 402,941.4 422,246.8 3281973 2,320495.6 8,887.7 69269.5 59233.0 5483.7 49262.3 309136.3
= =8~U8Z8Z222ZSu8ZUUSZZsaumu. .azana mag#  ----- ------ ---l22                     ---- _  2Z SZ:3  ca:



- 67 -
Annex  3, Table 2
RWANDA
A6. SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cosponents bv Year
(FRV '000)
Base Costs                                Total
1990      1991       1992      1993      1994          FRV      (USS  000)
A. STRUCTURE CEITRALE             45,415.3  23,067.6  26,410.9  27598.2  13.052.2    135,544.1   t1760.3
R. VULGARISATION/PPEFECTURES      63.307.1  419432.1  26Y354.4  27.513.7  404649.5    1999256.7    29587.7
8. 'JULGARISATION/UO              84,780.8  86.476.9  59.391.1  69.796.6  35,021.8    325,467.3    4,356.7
1L. *ULGARISATION/COMMUNES        68,155.6  52,159.7  39,891.3  44,392,1  429779.7    241,378.3   3b212.7
F. IULGARISATIOU/SECTEURS         ?3,702,1  419076.4  41,076.4  37.571.5  37,571.5    230,997.9    3,000.0
F. PRONOTION AS/PREFECTURES      105,946.6  24,631.4  51.788.7  36.131.9  324332.9    25S,831.6   3,257.6
1. IEfIENCES UNITE OPER           24.892.7   5.836.2   4.606.9   29938.6   29938.6        41,213.0       535.2
3. REMENJCES STATION BUGRANA       6.427.0  45,323.9   4,966;9  34,265.4   5.023.0        96,006.3    1,246.8
T. ELEVAGE                        60,350.2  34.021.5  24,734.3   2.250.4   19227.5    122.583.9    1,592.0
A. BOISENENT/PEPINIERE            39,246.0  39t246.0  30,770.8  30.770.8  30t770.8    170,804.5    2.218.2
1. ETUDES                         18,856.4   59559.6   9P043,9   7,686.0            -     41,146.0       534.4
Total BASELINE COSTS               591,079.9 398,831.1 319.035.5 320,915.5 241,367.7  1,871,229.6   24,301,7
Ph-sical Contifencies            52,876,6  32,404.2  244034.0  23.930.0  15,650,9    148,895 7    10933.7
Pr'ce Contirreocies              40,400,0  51,518#3  59.871,9  77,401.3  714178.8    300,370.4    3,900.9
.oLal PROJECT COSTS                684,356.5 482t753#6 4029941.4 422,246.8 328t197.3  24320,495.6   30,136.3
Tages                            344121.6  21.752.8  16,443.0  17,742.5  119989,0    102,049.0    1.325.3
Foreign Exchange                292.730.3 185P285.5 130,655.6 152,029.6  999825.3    860,526.3   11t175.7



- 68 -
Annex 3, Table 3
RWANDA
AG. SERVICES PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
!FRU '000)                       (US$ '000)                       I Total
_- --__-___ -_---------    ZForeign   Base
Local     Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
t. 1NUESTMENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION                   207.611.5 137,58.5   3449869.9   2N696.3  19782.6  4p478.8              40        18
R. FORMATION EXTERIEURE              .691.7  249114.2    26,805.9        35.0    313.2    348.1           90        1
r. FIRnATION LOCALE                45,016.2   7,875.2    52,891.4       584.6    102.3    686.9           15         3
n. VEHJ9WLES                       28,150.5 111,873.3   140,023.8       365.6  1,452.9  1,818.5           80        7
F. $0BILIER                         8,388.4   4v679.0    13,067.4       108.9      60.8    169.7          36
. EUIPEHENT                       23,995.9  559576.9    79,572.8       311.6    721.8  19033.4           70        4
I. ASSISTANCE TECHNIGUE                    -  769981.3    76,981.3          -    999.8    999.8          100        4
4. !NTRANTS ET MATFRIAUX           12,906.4   39199.1    16,105.4       167.6      41.5    209.2          20         1
1. ETIJEES ET ENQUETES             45,612.0  11,305.7    56,917.7       592.4    146.8    739.2           20        3
A. FONDS PROMOTION                122,365.7  30,330.4   152,696.2   1,589.2    393.9  1,983.1            20         8
K. PEPINIERES                     135.070.4  33,479.5   168,549.9   1.54.2    434.8  2,189.0              20         9
Tat41 INUESTMENt COSTS               631,808.6 496,673.1 1,128,481.8   8.205.3  6,450.3 14,655.6             44        60
!t. RECURRENT COSTS
_ _ _ ________
A. PERSONNEL                     382,272.9          -   382,272.9   4.964.6          -  4.964.6           -       20
R. FONCTIONNEfENT UENICULES       74,030.0 171,460.6   245,490.6       961.4  2,226.8  3,188.2           70        13
r. FOURNITURES                       584.5   1,353,7       19938.1       7.6      17.6     25.2          ,0        0
n. FONCTIONNEMEPJT GENERAL        61.753.4  15.306.7    77,060.1       802.0    198.8  1.000.8           20        4
F. ENJTRETIEN BAT!MENT             5,453.1   1,351.6       6,804.7      70.8      17.6     88.4          20        0
F. FONCTIONNEMENT BUREAU          23,385.0   59796.4    29.181.4       303.7      75.3    379.0          20        2
Total RECURREtlT COSTS                5479478.8 195,269.0   742,747.8   7,110.1  2,536.0  9,646.1            26        40
Total BASELINE COSTS                 1,1799287.5 691,942.1 1,871,229.6  1S5315*4  8,986.3 249301.7            37       100
Physical Contingencies              79,701.5  69t194.2   1489895.7   1,035*1    898.6  1,933.7             46         8
Price Contingencies                200,980.4  99t390.0   3009370.4   2,610.1  1+290.8  34900.9             33        16
Total P9OJECT COSTS                  1,459,969.3 860.526.3 2,320,495.6  18P960.6 11,175.7 309136.3            37       124



- 69 -
Annex 3, Table 4
RWO
AG. SERVICES PROJECT
Suaar kcouits bh Year
Totas Including Cortiramin                          Totals Includind Cantinimies
(FRU '000)                                          (US$ '000)
t1O      199     1992      1993     m        Total      1990   199    1m      1993   19    Total
2SMNX2 DUM33333 in33333zz 38m8338x ma3828mW 88333323382 3ua23D  ZinZZW Zaa 8383333 3883888 28838323
T.  W         COSTs
A. C01uCTIU                 1419459.7 i46.608.9 72P308.7 62o710.4  3.132.2  426.219.9 1W937.11.994.0  939.1  814.4   40.7 5,335.3
B. 8-  TION E(TERIEURE        2*743.9  8*546.0  9,385.3  6,965.6  6U864.7   349505.4    35.6  111.0  121.9   90.5   69.2   448.1
!r. FWMTTON                  16,69.2 11,994.5 12*596.7 13.012.0 13*547.0   67638.4   216,7  155.8  163.6  169.0  175.9   981.0
D. ICUWLES                  107,934.7 179572.1    18.1 3019.8  149161.9  169*952.7 I,400.5  228.2    2.4  392.2  193.9 2M207.2
F.  UILIE                    150*08.5       -        -    330.9         -   15.339.3   194I9      -       -    4.3      -   1".2
r. EgUIIP9ENT                429343.9 29U44.0    209.6 19*814.4  6,189.4   97PM01,2   549.9  379.5    2.7  257.3   90.4 19268.8
A. SISTACE TECM   I          32.256.1 22*633.4 22.144.5 12,370.5  5,53.5   94958.0   418.9   9.9  287.6  160.7   72.1  1.233.2
H. tIRNS ET ACIJAUX          10*726.6  2.332.6  1.029.5  5,097.0    714.0   19,999.7   139.3   30.3   13.4   66.2    9.3   258.4
. ETUnDEST EJETES            25.229.6 129379.1  14,096.2 17,109.7  2*591.1   71,405.7   327.7  160.8  103.1  222.2   33.7   927.3
J. FWM9 P9 il5               84*920.7 10141.6 45,771.1  22,112.8 29,790.1  1919636,2 1W101.6  131.7  594.4  287.2  373.9 2,488.9
K. PEPINTME                  44U751.6 47153*3 39M95.5 41,497.3 439222.6  216*460.4   581.2  612.4  517.3  539.9  561.3 2,811.2
Tot4 IIPESTIEN  COSTS         523tS63.7 308*505.4 217*565.2 231*216A4 1240766.4 1*405917.2 6,903.4 4.006.6 2.925.5 39002,8 1.620.3 18*259.7
-           -        -        -      D            -      _ W -- -- - - 
tl. RECUST COSTS
A. PEhI                     66"75041 84*508.6 92,914,01009215.9 108365.5  452,754.2   866.91097.5 1,206.7 1,301.5 1407.3  54979.9
R. FOWNTIWIENEN  VEHIILES   56*311.4 59,342.7 62*545.6 6691.3  70.197.6  315.338.7   731.3  770.7  812.3  869*4  911.7 4,095.3
F. FOIIUITTII                  450.9    473.7   497.9    520.7    544.4    2p487.5      5.9    6.2    6.5    6.8    7.1    32.3
nt. FOcNC  EnW Eam          29,334.5 21293,8 19714.0 13,242.7 13M793.3   97M36S4   381.0  276.4  256.0  1.0  179.1 1,264.5
F. ENIWTlIEN B4nIN            794.  1419.9  29149.3  2,239*9  2*332.0    9,934.1    10*3   1984   27.9   29.1   30.3   116.0
F. FNIITEINT E     AU        6851.8  7219*5  755.5  7,870.8  9198.0   379695.7   8990   93.8   989   102.2  106.5   489,6
Total REORN  cT                160,492.8 174,248.2 185*6.2 191,030.3 2039430.9  914*579.5 2,084.3 2.263.0 2M407. 2,480.9 2642.0 l11877.6
ToLd PROE  COT                 684*356.5 482*753.6 402941*4 4229246.8 320197.3 2,320,495.6 8997.7 6,269.5 5,233.0 5*483.7 4*262.3 30,136.3
833in333          333              338238833 33333m   3833833 383333               38 833 8in3338



- 70 -
Annex  3. Table S
RWANDA
AS. SERVICES PROJECT
Sueaari Accounts by Year
(FRV '000)
Base Costs                             Foreign Exchange
t990      1991      192        1993      1994       Total          Z    Asaunt
T. "N'ESTIENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION                 120,939.0 119,092.6  56i035.2  46t573.2   2,229.9   344,869.9    39.8 137,258.5
R. FORHATION EXTERIEURE           2,367.5   7,026.1   79331.5   5,193.2   4,987.7    269805.9    90.0  24i114.2
r, FORNATION LOCALE              14,199.4   9P682.6   90721#1   9,644.2   9,644.2    52,891.4    14.9   7,875.2
n. VEIICULES                     924883.1  14.414.5      146.8  22,496,2  10,083.2   1409023.8    79.9 111,873.3
E. NOBILIER                      12,821.8          -         -      245.6         -    13.067.4    35.8   4.679#0
F. EGUIPEHENT                    369404.3  238U48.3      163.2  149750.2   4.406.7    796572*8    69.8  55.576.9
R. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE          27P857.2  18,630.8  179312.8   9P226.4   39954,2    76,981.3   100.0  76P981.3
H. INTRANTS ET MATERIAUX          9,136.8   19885.6      795.2   39779.5      508.3    16,105.4    19.9   3,1"9.1
T. ETUDES ET ENOUETES            21,490.2  109007.2  104888.6  129687.1   19844.7    56,917.7    19.9  119305.7
1. FONDS PROMOTIQN               72,248.9   8.198.5  35P355.8  164396*9  20,496.1   152,696.2    19.9  30,330.4
K. PEPINIERES                    38.118.7  38.118.7  30.770.8  30.77008  30,770.8   168,549.9    19.9  33,479.5
Tital INVESTMENT COSTS            448.466.8 250,904.9 168.521.0 171,763.3  88,825.8 1.128,481,8    44.0 496.673.1
'I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSONNEL                    62,313.4  749789.0  784695.9  81.615.9  84,858.6   382,272.9        0.0        0.0
R. FUNCTIONNENENT VENICULES    48,412.6  48,559.5  48,706.4  49,832.6  49,979.5   245,490.6    69.8 171,460.6
k. rF!JRNITURES                    387.6      387.6     387.6      387.6     387.6      1,938.1    69.8   1,353.7
n. FQNCTIONNENENT GENERAL       24t986.8  17,205,9  15,228*1   ?P819,7   9,819.7    77,060.1    19.9  159306.7
F. ENTRETIEN PATIMENT              676.4   1.147.8   19660.2   1,660.2   1,660.2        64804.7    19.9   1,351.6
F. FI3?CTIONNENENT BUREAU        5.836,3   5,836.3   5,836.3   5,836.3   5,836.3    29v181.4    19.9   5,796.4
To tal RECURRENT COSTS             142,613.1 147,926.1 150.514,5 149,152,2 152,541.8   742,747.8    26.3 195P269.0
To:.dl BASELINE COSTS               591,079.9 398t831.1 3199035,5 3204915#5 2419367.7 148719229.6    37.0 691.942.1
IPhisical Contingencies           52,876.6  32.404.2  244034.0  23t930#0  159650.9   148,895.7    46.5  694194.2
Price Contingencies               40,400.0  51t518.3  59b871.9  77,401.3  71,178.8   300,370.4    33.1  99t30.0
ToL41 PROJECT COSTS                 684p356#5 482,753.6 4029941,4 422,246.8 328,197.3 2,320,495.6    37.1 860,526.3
T.j,es                            349121.6  21,752.8  16,443.0  17,742.5  11,989.0   102,049.0        0.0        0.0
Foreign E::chande                292,730.3 185,285.5 1309655.6 152,029.6  99,825.3   860,526.3        0.0        0.0



Annex 3, Table 6
-s
N. uuwmS OJECT
St,ww  I    i b  Pr.Act Cmwunt
itS '0001
8100011K                                                                                        _WIIIW        SEW       61613                                                                  -
COSTS ~ ~    SRMmmo                                                                                                         I         PU
EM       WtZlSATIOMMR               WESINTINAM VULWISTIOPM                W&WHNTtO      MI       rECn         MR OM r      W    t    M   r     X                         m          ot    t _V
1. MSWTON CMs
t4. I3gIUZtI                       -                 34,676.7       126*166.1              20,450.3                    -        9*206.2   11*277.6  34.388,5  10,776.5                  --   34b14.9  10.e 3R7.0
M.OT IO3 N EV W              1097.1                   7431.5           3.58.4                     -                    -          0.0            -   t2.9            -                  -              -    769       104  24
t'.  OTION LOCKE                   -                  4.255.1         10451t-8              I17.4                247.6           1,2U.7      451.2    179.4          --                                -    5249.4  US.   5.9.1
n. 1te1B                      6,A87.4                t9,1n.9          42,71t.4             24,153.3              2793.1t        16*915.6    2140.2                  t-40341.  tO.. 1442.4
E. 67    3                    101e0.0                2hS31.7          5,602.5                     -                     -        3,412.1                   -         -                  -              -    t7.-4 1e    to0 s.?
F. 1t3mW3                    19546.6                 10119.1          8181.6                5,132.0               2,59.0         6441.         6.0  23,285.6  31.33                     -              -     9.7w-  ts.0  7.97.3
n. SST151E ?MyEN             5o.20.3                 U4..6                  -                                           -             -          -  11,062.5                                                76.91143 uo.o  741.1
tt. T318IS ft  1YE3W1t             -                                                                              2,541.5             -    e3t41.5   4,61.6       W.h                   -                   1* ts14 18.0  104,1.5
1. El1VES ET 110              9,2m.3                                                        5,523.7                                                     2 -   14,2.8  *-                        4t,14.       %91U.7 18.0  S4.M.
I. 9383993513~~                                -                      - .                                   52491.2-                    . .           .            - .                  f52F.54  *0.0 t5.2#
Kt. ttEs155                        *                                        .          .                     -                 -                 -         -         -           163,549.9             -   u13.59   10.0   tIO,
T    Itl       mm9II3   156    99,27,                   93,6,9         t96,636.0              66,93.6               57,6n.0       192*M.3   22516t.  767m73 tt&368o.6               14t.5-.9       ti-06.0 t-112141.11  10.0 112.1..
tl. tttTW  COt                                                                                                                                                                                                                           >
A. 9225.                    17,ote.7                  .m.o           1,2t0.4               94.84.8              183319.3       34,815.4   e822.2  109116.3          -                  -              -   7 2 22.9  0.0       e.o
A.F1 IOEN3 T 001tES   11,116.9                    23,716.7         57.2A.                37.6;.1              93,207.3       21,421.51   5,084   560.8            -                          -          25*49.  10.0 25049.1
t. 981 3tts                                                                                  673.2               1,264.9             -          -         -         -                  -              -     1.      80.0    193.
I). F1K113 1 6E3.            2.l70.t                   256.2               -               4745.7              t10514.5                   4*565.       717.0   ,223.2             2,25.6              -    7700.1  1.0, 7*7w0
r. EvntETEt 83T11113              -                  2562.0           1.475.?                    -                     -             -          -   2,77.           -                  -              -     6    ? t1.0 
F. F31T131WT tlWU            7,173.6                t2,eo1.1          7632.3                     -                     -        8465.3                                         _                  _ .b t u  u1   o  2*910.8
Tatetl 3tJW1811 C              37.269.3                to0570,8        13811338.5            180,43.8              173,325.9       57.102.2   0*69%.5  19.231.0  9*223.2             2.25.6              -   72.747.S  4.9 367.5
fatal tlttE C0TS               135,544.1                1.25.67         335.467.3             247,37W8.             230.997.9      20,31.6   41,203.0  96,006.3  122,533.9           17006O4S       41,14.0 t.P.220.4  0.0 I14 W,?
FpIsical C4ateiff             11*53.1                 13*303.1         26317.7              1522.4                15,265.9      21,601.6    3,259.1   83.9. 1 t2293.4             t1*w.4          4,114.6   1.1.? w    0.0      0.0
Ptice Cejtm16gc o             20,960.8                32,824.7         54*1t2.3             41,92.8               37,666.9       39.100.3   4*15.1  U183.7   429.9                 11,29.         s47.e 30        .   7.0 390
otqtal PRlO" CoTpS             10.358.5                245,314.5       416.717.2             304,323.5             283-930.n       11.3,.4   49,37.t 121431.0  49t"163.1            2978.1        '1084.3 2.32O.4.6  7.33,7w4.7
.,.*.t ..                                  ....                                      , . ..... .. ,  .,- - ..fl#fltfl, *.  *S    S33               .3   S           .                         .
T4M                           5.040.6                  8.4865          19046.1              10630.6                9590.0        86t095.1    2*32605.5t4.5    90.6                  39.4          1,04.3  t12,0.0  9.1  V,277.2
Fartis" Vet1n                 13*457.8                9,4.t97 173901.5                      06,121.4             It0.933.5       08.1M3.0   15-4.469  61t4.0  57,708.4            41093.9       8003.3   065913  9.1 71.29.?



Annex 3, Table 7
-m
Sii. avrCE FRUITC
mse    vuusm  ainir
IR IMP   p0awy m
P?.ffieal t0tii                 Price Cm iinUcius                                                 winl
kw Cuts                                                                                          Toutl ITm. CWl.            Coo. Fla   ba  cets 4
--         Loal                             Locl                                                          PNrim C. hi  Cin.
Local (Erel. Duiti I        For. (Exl. bUin I                     (CEl. 66th   a                   Local (ElI. inM    I         on e tnkdl   an Dw
For. Exm.o  Taus      Tom    Total   Exch. Tom) Tao           l   For.  s. T=O   Tms  Total   For. Ex-.   Taxi)    TaM    Total              CIl..       Ws
1. INEDINEVI WO
A. COST IU                    1,792.6     2,427.5   266.7 4.479.9  176.3 242.9    26.9  447.9     220.2  351.9    36.5   6.4    2921.1    3J02.I   332.1 5.23.3             13.2      532.1
R.  UT l  E3tIRI2IE            313.2       17.6   17.4   34891  31.3   1.9       I.7   34.6       58.4    3.6     3.3   45.2       402.9       22.9    22.4   46.1         40.7        407.4
r. FPINW  LOCALE                102.3       594.6      -   696.9  10.2  3.5         -   68.7       1743  106.2       -  125.4       129.3      15.2        -   U11.O        3.1         366.9
n. IltCULS                   1t452.9        25.5   109.1  1416.5 145.3  25.6   10.9  191.0        161.3   33.1    12.4  266.3    1.759.S       315.2   132.4 2P267.2       26.7       2.e6.5
F. IWLIER                        60.3        99     10.2   169.7   6-.   9.9    1.0   170           3.7    6 1     0.3   12.5        70.6       316.7    12.0   l".2        U.1         11.1
V. EU9P T                       721.8       249.6    62.0  l033.4  72.2  25.0     6.2  103.1       66.6   35.6      7*9  132.1      82.6       3U0.1    76.1   24.3         15.1      ts13s
A.  SS1Tm  TE1OIIUE             99.s           -       -   9.9 100.0        -       -   00.0      133.5    0.0       -  133.5    1433.2            -       - 1233.2         1U1.       .121.1
N. ITnys  T tlUtENIAX            41.5       155.1    12.5   209.2   4.2  15.5     1.3   20.9        5.0   21.6      1.7   23.4       50.7       39.2    15.5   29.4         23.5        234.9
1. ETlE   ETIEIE                146.        549.0    44.4   739.2  14.7  54.6     4.4   73.9       20.5   6.       6.9  114.2       12.0       49.7       .6   97.3         44.3        343.0
I. FMs FIwlN                   393.9     19470.2   119.0 It9M3.t  39.4 147.0    11.9  199.3        55.6   3.l    13.4  307.4       419.1     1,350.3   149.3 2.4.1         226.3      292m2.5  ..
K. fsPlssEP ES                  434,3     19621.9   131.3 2N199.0  43.5 162.3    13.1  219.9       74.5  304.6   24.2  403.3        552.      2W0.7  1t.7  2ofti.2         25.6       2.3.6   .
T,l1)  IENt COSTS                6450.3      7430.7   774.7 1466  645.0 743.1    77.5 1465.6         636.9 1t.5s     12.1 V. S7.     79134.2    9.360.2   94.2U 8421.1      1.to        166.6
11, hRE67 COSTS
A. FSOll                           -     4.964.6      - 49964,6      -1-           -      -          -  9.3             915.3          -     59379.9      - 569                      539
R. FOCTllSMEUlr lt  tOES     226.8         770.1   191.3 3118.2 222.7  77.0    19.1  318.6        402.0  151.0    35.3   60.3    2.61.4         3.2   245.7 409.3         32.3       3721.C
rl. FUITPES                    17.6         6.3     3.5    25.2   1.6   0.6     0.2    2.5        3.2    1.2      0.3    4.6       22.         7.9      1.9    32.3        2.9         26.4
0. FUPII NTO EIGUML            196.9       740.9   61.0  1.000.8  19.9  74.1     6.1  100.1       29.7  124.0    10.0  143.7       24.3         3.e    77.1 I.24.5         111.0     1,49-6
F. ENTIFTIEN IlATTlIII          17.6        65.5    5.3    0.4   1.8   6.6       0.5    8.6         3.5   14.1     1.1   U.3        22.9       36.2      7.6   3168         U.5         MS
F. FUIETIPIENT K"               75.3       291.0   22.7   379.0   7.5  2B.1      2.3   37.9        13.5   54.9     4.4   72.7       943        343.9   29.4   49.6          44.5       445.0
Toal IEC0i COMST                 2.536.0    6329.2   21t.9 9.6461 253.6 186.4    29.2  466.1         451.9 1260.5    51.0 tt7U.4    3.24t1*4    b275.1   361. 119677.6        45.2    l1.W3.4
Totel                             09986.3    14.2l.9 105U.5 24.301.7  999.6 929.4   105.7 3,933.7    2,2".6 2.447.0   163.1 3.900.9  1I1175.7    17435.3 1.325.3 3ht36.3     2260.1    27.9JI.?



- 73 -
Annex 3, Table 8
RUANDA
AG. SERUICES PROECT
Finmncgn Plan bh Puojict Componnts
(US0 '000)
ASSOCIATION
INTERTIMIONALE
PU LE                    u W
OEVELOPPENENT     RANIDA           Total
Local (E:cl. Duties I
Aot  I         Amnt   I    Amount   2   For. Exch.    Taxes)          Taxes
===Z=: =---:  :=Zs=,     3:: :=S:_  :: a       =--:  ----==_    =====_==
A. .qrUCTURE CENTRALE           19693.2 77.4     493.3 22.6  2,186.5  7.3    1,47,3.5          647.5     65.5
R. UULGARISATIONAWPEFECTURES    1717.4 53.9   1469.5 46.1  34186.8  10.6    1,291.4         10785.2    110.2
r. WjLGARISATION/rU             3,480.9 64.3   19931.0 35.7  5%. .9  18.0    2,258.5        2,906.1    247.4
1. VULGARISATTON/COMWUNES       1.601.0 40.5   24351.3 59.5  3,952.3 13.1    1V118.5         2,695.6    138.2
E. VULGARSATIOW/SECTEURS        16582.8 42.9   2t104.6 57.1  3i687.4  12.2    1440.7         2,122.2    124.5
F. PROITON AG/PREFECTURES       3w105.7 76.8     940.2 23*2  4404549 13.4    19152.0         2P684.9    209.0
r. REHENCES UNITE OER             431.9 67.3     209.5 32.7    641.4  2.1        201.3         409.9     30.2
N. SENEtCES STATION BUGARANA    1t253.9 79.5     323.1  20.5  19577.0  5.2       800.6         703.1     73.3
T. ELEVPGE                      19794.2 92.6     142.9  7.4  1,937.2  6.4        749.5       1,071.4    116.4
.1. BOISENENT/PEPINIERE         2$666.3 93.7     180.2  6.3  2,846.5  9.4        559.7       2,116.0    170.8
K. ETUDES                         623.7 94.0      39.8  6.0    663.5  2.2        130.2         493.5     39.8
ToL4I Disbursement               19,950.9 66.2  10,185.4 33.8 300136.3 100.0   11,175.7       17,635.3  1,325.3
~~--_=  =       za _            22_33  3C          =  33 C C =C CC



- 74 -
Annex 3, Table 9
RVANDA
AG. SERVICES PROJECT
Financing Plan by Susmarv Accounts
(JS$ '000)
ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONALE
POUR LE      GOWERNENENT DU
r.EUELOPPEIENT      RWANDA           Total
Local (Exel,  Duties I
Amount   Z          Amount   Z   Amount   I    For. Exch.       Taxes)      Taxes
T| . NUESTMENT COSTS
A. C3NSTRUCTION                 5.203.2  94.0       332.1   6.0   59535.3  18.4     2,181.1        3,022.1     332.1
R. FORMATION EYTERIEURE           425.7  95.0        22.4   5.0     448.1   1.5        402.9          22.9      22.4
1. FORMATION LOCALE               881.0 100.0         0.0   0.0    881.0  2.9          129.8         751.2         -
n.. 'JEHICULES                  2.074.7  94.0       132.4   6.0   2P207.2   7.3      1.759,5         315.2     132.4
F. NOBILTER                       187.3  94.0        12.0   6.0     199.2   0.7         70.6         116.7      12.0
Fr. EQUIPEMENT                  1.192.7  94.0        76.1   6.0   1*268.8   4.2        882.6         310.1      76.1
n. ASSISTANCE TECHNIOUE         1*233.2 100.0           -     -   1P233.2   4.1      19233,2             -         -
W. INTRANTS ET MATERIAUX          242.9  94.0        15.5   6.0     258.4   0.9         50.7         192.2      15.5
T. ETUDES ET ENOUETES             871.7  9440        55.6   6.0     927,3   3.1        182.0         689.7      S5.6
.1. FOND3 PROMOTION             2Y339.5  94.0       149.3   6.0   2Y488.8   8.3       489.1        1,85013     149.3
K. PEPINIERES                   2.642.5  94.0       168.7   6.0   2P811.2   9.3        552.8       2Y089.7     168.7
Total INUESTMENT COSTS            17P294.5  94.7       964.2   5.3  18P258*7  60.6      7t934#2       9v360.2     964.2
Il. RECURRENT COSTS
____ __________
A. PERSONNEL                         -     -    5t879.9 100.0   5*879T9  19.5             -       5,879.9         -
R. FONCTIONNEMENT VEHICULES    1*721.3  42.0    2,374.0  58.0   49095.3  13.*      2,851.4          998.2     245.7
l. FOURtJITURES                   13.7  42.4        18.6  57.6      32.3   0.1         22.5           7.9       1.9
Ti. FONCTIONNEMENT GENERAL       670.7  53.0       593.9  47.0   19264.5   4.2       248.3          939.0      77.1
F. ENTRETIEN BATIMENT             42.9  37.0        73.1  63.0     116.0   0.4         22.9          86.2       7.0
F. FONCTIONNENENT BUREAU         207.8  42.5       281,7  57.5     489.6   1.6         96.3         363.9      29.4
TAi3l RECURRENT COSTS              2*656.4  22.4    9,221.2  77.6  11,877.6  39.4       3,241.4       8,275.1     361.1
To.al Diibursement                 199950.9  66.2   10,185.4  33.8  309136.3 100.0    11,175.7        17,635.3   1,325.3
-----~ ~ ~~~~~~__=_ -_= -------------========-_= =    ===



- 75 -
Annex 3, Table 10
RWANDA
AG. SERVICES PROJECT
Fiiancing P13n BD  Disbursement CatesorN
'US$ '000)
'4 SOCIATION
TJTERNATIONALE
PCUJR LE     GOUVERNEMENT DU
IEUELOPPENENT       RWANDA           Total
--------------------- -------                                Local 'Excl. Duties I
Amaount    X     Amount          A Amount    %    For. Exch.    Tares)      Taxes
======== ====   == =======                 =====Z=  =====Z===        ========== ===_
A. CONSTRUCTION                 59203.2  94.0       332.1   6.0  5w53.53  18.4       2,181.1      3i022.1    332.1
h. FOMMATION 'ETrpIEURE          425,7 95.0         22.4   5.0     448.1   1.5        402.9          22.9      22.4
^. FOR11A*I0N ICCLE               581.0 100.0         0.0   0.0     881,0   2.9        129.8          51,2         _
t. UEHICIJLES                   2.074.7  94.0       132.4   6.0   29207.2   7.3      1.759,5         315.2     032.4
F. AQOILIEP                       187.3  94.0        12.0   60      199,2   0.7         70.6         116.7      !2.0
F. EOIJIPEMENT                 1l192.7  94,0         76.1   6-,  1,268.8   4.2         882.6         31G.1      76.;
1. ASSISTANCE' TECNNIOUE        t.233.2 100.0           -     -   1,233.2   4.1      1t233.2             -         _
M. INTPANTS ET 4ATERIAIJX         2426.9  94.0       15.5   6.0     258.4   0.9         50.7         192.29      15.5
T. FTUDES ET ENOUETES             871.7  94.0        55,6   6.0    927,3   3.1         182.0         689.7      55o,
.!. F8NDS PRM?OTION             2'339M5  94.0       149.3   6.0   2'488.8   8.3        489.1       1,850.3     149.3
I. P2PINIERES                   lt642.5  94.0       168.7   6.0   2'811.2   9.3        552,8       29089.7     1-8.7
I.. PERSONNEL                          -     -    5,879.9 100.0   59879,9  19.5            -       5,879.9         -
M. F3ONCTIONNEKENT UEHICULES    1,721.3  42.0    2,374,0  58.0  4t095,3  13.6        2P851.4         998.2     245,7
N. FOURNITURES                     13.7  42.4        18.6  57.6      32.3   0.1         22.5           7,9
n. FONCTIONNMENTE SENERAL         670.7  53.0       593.9  47.0   1,264.5   4.2        248*3         939-0      77.1
P. FNTRETIEN BATINENT              42.9  37.0        73.1  63.0     116.0   0.4         22.9          86.2        .0
0. FONCTIONNEI'ENT BUREAU         207.8  42.5       281.7  57.5     489.6   1.6         96.3         363.9      29.4
ThLd DbDiibjrireQent             19,950.9  66.2   10,18S.4  33.8  30t136.3 100.0    11,175.7        17,635,3   1t325.3
-  -    -   -----   - ----------   -   - ----=-=-= ------=-, -------------=- =------------ _-_--=-=-----------_-=--  -_--



- 76 -
Annex 3, Table 11
RWANDA
AG. SERVICES PROJECT
flisbursement Dv Fir,ancier 8Y Semester
IUS$ '000)
ASSOCIATInN
IIJTERNATIONALE
POUR LE     GOUVERNEIENT Du
nEVELOPPEMENT      PWANDA       Total
Amount          Amount  Amount
eamester
*   ,673.4        770,5  4,443,9
3o673.4           770.5  4.443.9
2,254.7           880.1  3.134.8
4                 2,254.7           880.1  3.134.8
',                19649.9           966.6  2,616.5
A                 1,649.9           966,6  2,616.5
7                 19628.1        1113.8 2,741.9
8                 t,628.1        1W113.8  2.741.9
I?                  769.4         1v361.7  2.131.2
10                   769.4        1361.7  2,131.2
Tctal                   19,950.9        10P185.4 304136.3
------_=         == ==-,- =    = ==  == =_ =    = == ==



- 77 -
Annex 4. Table 1
RECURRENT COSTS OF EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
PROJECTS IN THE ASP AREA 1987 RF (millions)
Number
Prefecture              Prolect                 of Communes              Recurrent Cost
Kigali                  Kigali Est.                   6                   19.6a/
Kigali Nord                  3                    4.7
BGM II                       3                   50.8
Kibungo                 BG.I II                      3                    48.4
Kibungo Ilb/                 8
Gisenyi                 GBK (extension
component)                 3                   11.7
PCCV                         2                   92.1c/
IPV                          4                   19.6
DRI                          2                  101.9
Kibuye                  PIAKb                        5
PCCVc/                       3
CzNdl                        1                   21.9
Cyangungu               PCCVC/                       8
TOTAL RECURRENT COST PROJECTS                                      370.7
MINAGRI Operating
Budget Allocationse/                                             122M9
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTSf/                                            493.6 or US$
6.4 million
Sources:  DCE MINAGRI
DPA
Project Records
a/    1986 figure
h/    not available
el     figures for 13 communes
dl    1/3 operating cost for 3 communes covered by project.
e/    B.O prorated for 38 communes  (expenditures  for secretariat general
excluded, as well as subventions parastatals, etc.) 60% of B.O assumed for
field services = .6 X (950-179) x 38/143.
f/    For 38 communes above for which figures were available - US$ 168,000 per
commune.



Annex 4. Table 2ta)
RWAND
ACGICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - RF MILLION
Present Value                               Present Valueb/
Incremental              of Incremental                              of Incremental
Costs (Investment        Costs Discounted      Incrementalal         Benefits Discounted
Year     and Operational)                at 15X            Benefits                  at 15S
1             561.0                    487.8                     0                           0
2             402.7                    304.5                     2.9                         2.2
3             261.1                    171.7                    16.5                        10.8
4             260.6                    149.0                    38.8                        22.2
5             181.1                     90.0                    69.7                        34.6
6              97.2                     42.0                   107.8                        46.6
7              97.2                     36.5                   163.1                        61.3
8              97.2                     31.8                   235.3                        76.9
9              97.2                     27.6                   323.6                        92.0
10              97.2                     24.0                   429.1                       106.1
11              97.2                     20.9                   552.0                       128.6
12              97.2                     18.2                   667.1                       124.7
13              97.2                     15.8                   773.6                       125.7
14              97.2                     13.7                   871.1                       123.1
15              97.2                     11.9                  1020.0                       125.3
16              97.2                     10.4                  1020.0                       109.0
17              97.2                      9.0                  1020.0                        94.8
18              97.2                      7.9                  1020.0                        82.4
19              97.2                      6.8                  1020.0                        71.7
20              97.2                      5.9                  1020.0                        62.3
1484.4                                              1490.3
al   Derived from the incremental production of eight fooderops and coffee.
bl To achieve a 15X ERR annual incremental net value in year 15 (full development) would need to reach
RF 1020 million or about 9% over "without project" production.



- 79
Annex 4
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
The complex farming systems in Rwanda, the diffculties with predicting
accurately the impact and speed of accrua'l of project benefits, the possible
errors that may occur with attempting to define farm budgets, adoption rates and
other important parameters too precisely serve as the rationale for an indicative
economic analysis intended to provide orders of magnitude of possible production
increases. The analysis estimates production without project and looks at needed
production with project to obtain a 152 ERR.  Production estimates for project
areas are done by the three agro-ecological zones: Bugesera, Imbo and Bord Lac
Kivu (BLK) (para. 3.03 SAR). The start off point for the estimates is production
figures provided by the 1984 Agricultural Census for each zone (see MINAGRI,
Resultats de l'Enqueta Nationale Agricole 1984s Vol. 1, Rapport 1, pages 197-
203). Based on this, and on other information from the project area three farm
types were developed and the numbers of farmers in each category estimated from
census data.
Zone                               Farm Area Ha
Small             Average            Larke
Bugesera           0.85                1.7               2.65
Imbo               0.8                 1.6               2.5
BLK                0.4                 0.8               1.4
The without project situation in Bugesera and BLK was taken as the 1984 situation
plus the estimated impact of the BGM II and PCCV projects (a range of 1-2Z per
annum increase in the production of major crops during the five project years).
For Imbo where there has been no project and no known dramatic changes in
agricultural practices the 1984 situation was taken as the present and without
project case. On this basis, estimated without project production increases for
eight major fooderops beans, sorghum, maize, banana, soybeans, sweet potato,
manioc, groundnuts, and a cash crop coffee range from 0% for beans and bananas
to 21 per annum for soybeans in Bugesera and BLK. The estimated total value of
production without project is presented in Table 2b.   In the with project
situation farmers are expected to adopt better cultural practices, to use
improved varieties of the crops and to increase the use of fertilizer and
phytosanitary products on coffee, maize, sorghum and other fooderops once field
testing is complete.  Based on these assumptions, if 42 per year of families
adopted proposed improvements, leading to increased production to the tune of
RF 1020 million or 9Z above the estimated without project production by project
year 15, the project would achieve a 151 EPR.
For purposes of the analysis tradeable goods were included net of duties
and taxes. A shadow exchange rate of RF 1.30 to the US$ was assumed (discussed
and agreed with COD).  A standard conversion factor of 0.77 was used to adjust
the prices of non-tradeables.  Labor was shadow priced at RF 75 per man-day.
The opportunity cost of capital in Rwanda was assumed at 101.  The sensitivity
tests show switching values for benefits of 33Z and costs 491 (Table 2(c)).



Annex 4. Table 2Mbl
ESTIMATED VALUE OF PRODUCTION WITHOUT PROJECT
(CONSTANT 1988 PRICES) RP MITLION
Agro-ecological
Zone              1        2       3        4      5         6          7         8       9        10     11 - 20
Bugesera             2324.1  2337.8  2353.8  2367.7  2382.3   2382.3    2382.3   2382.3  2382.3   2382.3  2382.3
Imbo                 5601.0  5740.5  5880.0  6019.5  6158.9   6298.5    6551.3   6804.1  7056.9   7309.8  7562.6
BLK                  1156.8  1180.8  1204.5  1227.5  1248.2   1268.4    1268.8   1268.4  1268.4   1268.4  1268.4
TOTAL          9081.9  9259.2  9438.4  9614.6  9785.5   9949.1   10201.9  10454.7  10707.6  10960.4 11213.2
00



- 81 -
Annex 4. Table 2(c)
PERCENT
STREAM            CHANGE
BS                -32.99Z
CTT                49.22X
Notes:
BS = Net Incremental Benefits
CTT - Net Project Incremental Benefits
Net ineremental benefits are zero (in fact negative in the first year).



Annex 5, Chart 1
RWANDA
Agricultural Services Project
Present Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests
rl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I~~~~ 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        



Annex S. Chart 2
Projct Orcoctoral         I
Agricultural S rMwO r-l ct
_~~~~~~Ced Nbt tool
_         ~~~Coorintton
CoinueCeattO
Fonctl nnr lr
t nodIotnt and
staf
Profocture levol       Prof. toan        Prof. to       Pro t. TO            Pra.ta
team            Ktbuyo           Ktgalt          K;bungo               0    y
Cyann Nu                             -cr
Coordination                          .,,
Dvot I op  nt    Tochnical
Coo;tt       Co _oioston
B asic Extension Agents 
rwrer
U O0- Unit6 Oporationnelle
Indicatos 2 v y infor tion flow



I
i
i
I
i
i
I
I
I
I
I
i                                                                             MAP SECTION
I
i
I
I
I
i
I
I



_____________________________________         .___.   _____  .__  __    _________                                         I                T 4t.10E Km DOIR                                               21291
29-                                                                                  C 
RWAN DA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
PROJET SERVICES AGRICOLES                                                                         u G A N D A
PROJECT AREAS AND AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES
ZONES DU PROJET ET ZONES ECOOGIQUES                                                                                                                                     k
i    PROJECT COMMUNES                                                                                                                                                 T      N     A      I
O/ /  COMMUNES GDA PROJET                                                                                                                                                TANZANIA
] PROJECT PREFECTURESS
PPR FECTURES DUL PROJET
SMIlES ES REGIONS AGRICOLES
CO M  UNE GBO =UN ODARIE
PREFACTURN ROANDARSEES
UMITESE.II      GE \PREFECTUREMA
RONTIERS  INTECRPAAES                                                                                                                 12S 
AGRICULTSRAL REGIONS
NATIONS AGRI   CORSCDEAU 
bCOMMUNEKA H GHLAND5   x,(             /     m/V9Swrl  fr'         wAXiA BOUNDARAIES                           9                                   A E   A       RGE E A             , 7i-
PRFETUE OU KJENY                                                                                                                                             NATINONAL
UERNTIES DEE                                                                                                                                                             REERE          75      85
.FTANZANIA                       /                                                                                               RON EPINERNILESO NAS
N.4                                                                                                                                                     TILAwl  IE              55          RE ID s  M  .AS
LAEKV  EGAAIO                                                                                                                       GL
3BOADURES LAC KIVU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~JNAR   R



_ __-_'________________________E_________ _I 08RD   21
R W A N D A                                                           !n
-            AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS WITH EXTENSION                                                            (                                                                                                       .xr.---
COMPONENT, SITUATION AS OF 12-31-88                                                                         U G A N  D A                                                             umb
0 FROJEf AGRO-PAS. 1TAt LI NYABR1NbU (PAP)                         PROJETS AGRICOLES AVEC COMPOSANTE DE
AGRICULTURVE DE LLOPUMENT PROJECT                                 VULGARISATION, SITUATION AU 31-12-88                                                         (
NSJ-IKIJRVU IDANA)
TROJET DE DPVEJOPPEMENT AGRICOLE                                                                                                                   Ru .-53
NSUULI-KtVV POANKl
CD  FOO  PRODUCTION INTENSIFICATIOCNL PROJECT JIPVA FEDERAL AEPUTLC OF GERMANY                                  EUEROPEA  DEVELOPMENT FUND
'-  PRED- U INTNIIAINDJ   RDCIN                       [       AJJEMAGNPE FEDERAUE                      E.JPONDS EJUROPEEN TE DEVEJOP-ETMENT (FED)                                                                                                                   T      N      A       I
ELIDA, WVORLD   A     ANK                          m INTERNATIONAL FUN   O
GfTARAMA .3RICULTURAJ PRODUCTION                            ASSOCNATION INTERAIADONAUE DE             L     AGRICULTURAL DEOE LO NT i 3 AD)
.-PROJECT PG                                                 DEVELOPPEMENT (IDA, BANQUE                       FONTOS INtENAUAIOPVAJ UT
PUOLET AGUiCOLE DE GITARAMA (fAG)                           MONCIALN !FON DEVESOPPAEMRN  AGRCOE (TIDAl
RUGESEEA-GJSAKAU-UAGONGO PROJECT RGTA II              'J  ASRAT  U)INU
GROJET RILSEJPAGISAUA MJGONGO RUGMA                  Lat  AUTRICHE                                    L     PN U                                         C    FUME -                  MA.(
t AK KVF0)COANCOEEPRODUCTION                                   EGU
ROE T 1PCVU)O   RPAN   OFEE                              APELGOAT                                  EL;Fg:,tNCE                                                                           k      T
PROJEC CAFE FT CULTURES VIVRIERES (PCCV9                     EL IUE                                          RANCE
   ECOD INTEG       D FORESTRY AGRICULTURE AND                 C A                                       EL S w TZEPLAND           ./ #S YE                                                                                    wAKAIGAE RA
DEUXIME  PROJET AGRO-SYLVO-PASTOEAL                         AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT RANK/                                                                                                                                                          A K A G E r A
CJARINO-GATONIIR-NUUS  PROJECT ICTOTNE               ELARICUM DEVELOPMENT FUN4D JADRIUDFJ                                             p           ~V 
PROJETCPYABINGO-GVTONDE-NLDUSU (CYGAND)                    RNEUE AFRICAWe DC UEJ'EJOPPPANENF/                                     7                                                                 lk
PONDS A'RIA:A UE DEUDJOP`ATE,T
KRJUNGO RUAML DEELOPMENT PROJECT                            LEAD I/A ,)                                                                                                                                                                                         K
A PROlET DE DECU DEOPPEMENT RURAL DE                                                                                            .-VUNGO
'   LAKE MUJ0HATI ADSIN LAND IMP ESE   PROJECTE                                        /                                                         ..                                   j   E      \    P c                 AAT!                                                         (    1K
Pv/ ROJ ET 0 A-ENA E       tV VASSIN PES.T                                                                                        /   GIAI    7T                             Il            U            p                             P            '
DV LACMRUHAZ                                                         .                                                                                                                  -
M,GPJCUPTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENAT                                                                                                                                           IA'       MT                                '                (        >(
UPRPROJECT IMPAI                                                                                                                                                                                                             L, II     LT             C- ,AOtPA
"MJE  RAELIORATION PE LA PUODUCTITITE                   -..  ANRAS-
AGUCOTE IAPAI                                  ~~~~~~~~~ROUTES PRINCOTASES                    .EAKF./KI VU 
tjKA CODERVARM PROJECT                                       0.RJVERf
APROJEA CODERK-ARu                                                  COURT EAD                                                                               l-LA -
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DM1                                                                                                    r.vv C'MUN  ROUUE  V-"l"  \                                    (BU       UDE
~O PROJET DE  IEVELOPPEMENT REUAJ INFEGRE DPLL                 DURITES DE COMMUNE                                                                                                                                              
EUVARE GOJBAL DEVELOPMUENT PROJECT (GR '0                                                                                                                                                                                                              Q 
'-  TOJEF DR JLEVLOTPMEPLT GLORAL DE RUTARE (DUE     V    ---   PREFETURE ROUNDARIES
LIMITES UE PREFECTURE                                                                                                           N            f   ALTDUI           E             50                                              2
~ ZAIRE- ILE DIVIDE UEV__OPU_ENT PROJECT (CZ'A
PRODEI DR RWELOVEJEMENT DEJLA CRETE                             FRONTIEE SNUEIONAL TOUNADVEIS                                                                         E
ZAIRE-NIL LCZNLI                                                FONESEELIOES
'lbYETUMBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DRB)                                                                                                                              -      NIARAPAPE     MAD-NA
''PROJTD-P DEVEPTLOPPRAMENT RURAL UE PFPMDA IDkAL
GIKONGORO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TROJET DE DPVPLOPPEMENF AGAVCOJE
UP UIKONUORO PINA)
 IGAUI-TAST GORJCULTUAl DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROD-F DR DEVELOPPEMTCNT AGRCOJF E  KRIEGAD-EST                                                                                                                                                                                 IA
KIGALI-NORVHAGVRICULTURAL                                                                                                                                      -
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                          OII
PROJEV DE DEVEJAPPESEEN          OEAGUCOLEID
KLGA UNOCRD 
RITUAL AGRICULTURAL PROJECT (PAR)I
~I~PROJET AISRJCOJE TEEKUBUYF (PAK)                                                           I    ADJRAV,AI
A~~~~~~~~~RTT                                                                                          B UPR U N D I 
NYIIJI  IN,AKI/A    K'S VAT                 ~~~~KILORMETERAS 
MILE       .R,'nP    NRRAA iihnRMRiUPn~n 
F    'InVOTEPA    TnMJ.ATD.i                 V
IAM                                             ~~~~~~~~~~B  U   R   U   N   DI                                                               DS  AA.ATTRDA   pE  MRMNa   Vn.A'n
/50          V                  ~AT UD AM IDE                      TDEM VApNDUMMAiA                             ARCl 1



