Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2026 RW
                  (Agricultural Services Project)
                              between
                         RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 13, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2026 RW
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  September   13,   1989,  between  RWANDESE
REPUBLIC   (the   "Borrower")    and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed  on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BP" means Union  des  Banques  Populaires, the union of
cooperative savings  institutions  established  by  the Borrower's
arrete no. 020/15.09 of October  6, 1986;
     (b)  "Cooperation Agreement" means  any  of the agreements to
be  entered  into  between   the   Borrower  through  MINAGRI  (as
hereinafter defined)  -Agricultural  Services  Project  and  BP or
IWACU, as the  case  may  be,  pursuant  to  Section  3.08 of this
Agreement, as the same may be  amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to such Cooperation Agreement;
     (c)  "Franc Rwandais"  and  "FRW"  mean  the  currency of the
Borrower;
     (d)  "Implementation Agreement" means  any  of the agreements
to be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  through  MINAGRI (as
hereinafter defined) -Agricultural Services Project and any of the
Borrower's communes or  farmers  groups  in  the  Project Area (as
hereinafter defined) pursuant to  Section  3.04 of this Agreement,
as the same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time, and such term
includes all schedules to such Implementation Agreement;
     (e)  "ISAR"  means  Institut  des  Sciences  Agronomiques  du
Rwanda,  the  Borrower's  public  entity  ("etablissement public")
responsible for agricultural research;
     (f)  "IWACU"  means  Centre  de  Formation  et  de  Recherche
Cooperative, a  non-governmental  organization  established in the
Borrower's territory;
     (g)  "MINAGRI" means Ministere de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage
et des Forets, the  Borrower's  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
and Forests;
     (h)  "NCC" means the  National  Coordination  Committee to be
established pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
     (i)  "NSC"  means  the  Borrower's  National  Seed  Committee
responsible for supervision of the Borrower's seeds regulations;
     (j)  "Project Area"  means  the  area  of  the prefectures of
Kigali, Kibuye, Kibungo,  Gisenyi  and  Cyangugu in the Borrower's
territory;
     (k)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (l)  "SSS"  means  Selected  Seed  Services,  a  division  of
MINAGRI responsible for production of  base and certified seed and
for seed certification services.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  fifteen  million  five  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,500,000).
Page  3
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  Dollars  a  special  account  in a banking
institution  on   terms   and   conditions   satisfactory  to  the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date  of  this Agreement (the "Accrual Date")
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be  applied  from  the  next  payment date in that
year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  May  15 and November 15
commencing  November  15,  1999  and  ending  May  15,  2029. Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on May 15,
2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 Dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
Page  4
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time  to time provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MINAGRI with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial  and agricultural practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. (a)  The  Borrower  and  the Association shall,
from time to time, and in  any  case not later than November 30 of
each  year  before  completion   of  the  Project,  starting  with
November 30, 1990,  exchange  views  on  the  progress achieved in
carrying out the Project.
     (b)  Prior to any  such  exchange  of  views  as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section  and  not  later than November 30 of
each year, the Borrower shall  furnish a work program satisfactory
to the Association including the following:
          (i)  a project performance  review  for the current year
               of Project implementation;
         (ii)  details of  the  activities  to  carry  out for the
               following year of  Project implementation including
               provisions relating to staffing and training;
        (iii)  detailed investment  and  operating  budgets broken
               down by component;
         (iv)  a financing  plan  indicating  the  funding for the
               investment and operating budgets; and
          (v)  a  procurement   plan   for   purchases  and  works
               comprised in the  work program including procedures
               and timetables.
     (c)  During the exchange  of  views  to  take place not later
than November 30,  1992,  the  Borrower  and the Association shall
also discuss:
          (i)  the impact of fertilizer use  on crop yields in the
               Project Area;
         (ii)  the Borrower's fertilizer pricing policy to improve
               cost recovery including retail margins;
        (iii)  the  program   of   public   expenditures  for  the
               Borrower's agricultural  sector  and the Borrower's
Page  5
               budgetary  procedures  for  the  financing  of  the
               agricultural services to  ensure their adequacy for
               the continued funding of  the recurrent costs under
               the Project;
         (iv)  the impact of the  Project  on the effectiveness of
               agricultural services;
          (v)  the efficiency of  the agricultural services system
               under Part A (a) of the Project; and
         (vi)  the  timetable  for  implementation  of  the system
               specified in point (c)  (v)  of this Section in all
               of the Borrower's territory.
     (d)  In order to supervise  the  execution of the Project the
Borrower shall also, not later  than  July  31 of each year before
Project  completion,  furnish  to  the  Association  a  semiannual
progress report reviewed by NCC.
     Section 3.03.  (a)  In  order  to  finance  its  share of the
Project operating costs and  without  limitation to the generality
of Section  3.01  with  regard  to  the  provision  of  funds, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)  until December 31,  1992, make adequate allocations
               in its development budget;
         (ii)  starting  not  later  than  January  1,  1993, make
               adequate allocations in its recurrent budget; and
        (iii)  earmark the  allocations  under  paragraph  (ii) of
               this Section and identify them as a line item.
     (b)  In order to disburse  the  allocations made, pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  open, and  thereafter  maintain,  in Franc Rwandais
               and in  the  name  of MINAGRI-Agricultural Services
               Project, an account in  the National Bank of Rwanda
               on  terms  and   conditions   satisfactory  to  the
               Association;
         (ii)  deposit into such Project Account an initial amount
               of FRW 15,000,000; and
        (iii)  thereafter  deposit  quarterly   into  the  Project
               Account, each year during Project implementation, a
               sum necessary to  replenish  the Project Account up
               to the original amount of FRW 15,000,000.
     (c)  Amounts deposited into  the  Project Account pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be:
          (i)  further deposited in local sub-accounts in a manner
               satisfactory to the Association; and
         (ii)  used  only   to   make   payments   to  meet  local
               expenditures made or to  be  made in respect of the
               reasonable  cost  of  goods  and  services  for the
               Project and not  eligible  for  financing under the
               Credit.
     Section 3.04. In order to  carry  out  Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than June 30,  1990 enter through MINAGRI into
Implementation Agreements with at  least seven (7) communes and/or
farmers  groups  included  in  the  Project  Area,  on  terms  and
conditions satisfactory to  the  Association, defining their tasks
in Project implementation and the relating financing arrangements;
and
Page  6
     (b)  exercise its  rights  under  any  of  the Implementation
Agreements in such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests of the
Borrower and the Association,  to  accomplish  the purposes of the
Credit and shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate or waive any of the
Implementation Agreements or  any  provisions  thereof without the
consent of the Association.
     Section 3.05. In the carrying  out  of Part A of the Project,
unless the Association shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall
also  ensure  that  the  following  number  of  forestry nurseries
financed under  the  Project  be  transferred  to  and operated by
farmers groups:
          (i)  not less than eighty (80) by December 31, 1992;
         (ii)  not  less  than  one  hundred  and  sixty  (160) by
               December 31, 1993; and
        (iii)  the remainder by December 31, 1994.
     Section 3.06. In the carrying  out  of Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall also:
     (a)  make available the housing  for higher-level field staff
of MINAGRI under the  Project  at  rentals  sufficient to cover at
least the cost of maintenance  of  such  housing, but in any event
not less, on an annual basis,  than one percent (1%) of investment
cost, and ensure that such rentals  be collected by MINAGRI on the
basis of lease agreements satisfactory to the Association;
     (b)  ensure that the  rentals  specified  in paragraph (a) of
this Section be held by MINAGRI-Agricultural Services Project in a
bank  account  to  be  designated  "Rental  Account"  and  used by
prefecture coordinators for the  maintenance purposes specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section;
     (c)  ensure that the credits  provided to extension staff for
the purchase of  bicycles  and  motorcycles  under  the Project be
regulated by loan agreements satisfactory to the Association;
     (d)  ensure that the repayments specified in paragraph (c) of
this Section be held by MINAGRI-Agricultural Services Project in a
bank  account  to  be   designated  "Vehicles  Account"  and  used
exclusively for the purchase of  new vehicles for extension staff;
and
     (e)  not later than the date falling six (6) months after the
Effective Date, submit plans  satisfactory  to the Association for
the management of the  center  in  Gishiyita  to be financed under
Part A (c) of the Project, including proposals for its transfer to
the private sector or farmers groups.
     Section 3.07. In the carrying  out  of  Part D of the Project
the Borrower shall:
     (a)  recover the direct cost  of  production of selected seed
production in accordance with the following schedule:
          (i)  65% not later than December 31, 1990;
         (ii)  80% not later than December 31, 1991; and
        (iii)  100% not later than December 31, 1992;
     (b)  not later than June  30,  1990 submit to the Association
for review and comment draft technical criteria on seed production
and certification prepared by SSS;
     (c)  promptly afterwards,  submit  such  criteria  to NSC for
approval; and
Page  7
     (d)  not later than January 31, 1991:
          (i)  issue   guidelines    on    seed   production   and
               certification based  on  the  criteria specified in
               paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section; and
         (ii)  empower SSS to control and certify seed quality.
     Section 3.08. In order to carry out Part E of the Project the
Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than  March  31,  1990  enter through MINAGRI-
Agricultural  Services  Project  into  Cooperation  Agreements, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, with:
          (i)  BP,  including,  inter   alia,   the  provision  of
               agricultural credit by BP  and the establishment of
               a fund to be financed  under  Part E of the Project
               to guarantee such provision; and
         (ii)  IWACU, providing, inter  alia,  for the training of
               cooperatives  members   in  bookkeeping,  inventory
               management, preparation  of  loan  applications and
               the fostering of inter-cooperative relationships in
               the Project area; and
     (b)  exercise  its  rights  under   any  of  the  Cooperation
Agreements in such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit and shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate or waive any of the
Cooperation  Agreements  or  any  provision  thereof  without  the
consent of the Association.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower  shall  appoint within MINAGRI not
later than December 31, 1991, an agro-economist, to be responsible
for  assisting  the   Project   administrator  to  coordinate  the
activities under Part C of  the Project, and whose qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Association.
     Section  3.10.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year, audited
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
Page  8
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any of the communes  or  farmers  groups included in the
Project area shall have failed to perform any of their obligations
under any Implementation Agreement.
     (b)  Any of the BPs or IWACU shall have failed to perform any
of their obligations under any Cooperation Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall   have   taken   any   action   for   the   dissolution   or
disestablishment of any of BP, ISAR, IWACU, NCC or SSS.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraphs  (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice  thereof  shall  have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraph  (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Page  9
     (a)  the  Borrower  has   opened   the  Project  Account  and
deposited the initial amount referred  to in Section 3.03 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement;
     (b)  the  Borrower   has   retained   prefecture  agriculture
coordinators in each of the prefectures within the Project area;
     (c)  the Borrower  has  appointed  the following higher-level
staff for managing the Project whose experience and qualifications
are satisfactory to the  Association:  (i) a Project administrator
(fonctionnaire dirigeant); (ii) an  adaptive research officer; and
(iii) a financial officer;
     (d)  an agreement satisfactory  to  the  Association has been
entered into  between  the  Borrower, through MINAGRI-Agricultural
Services Project and ISAR, for the  carrying  out of Part B of the
Project; and
     (e)  NCC has been established  for the supervision of Project
work plans and budgets.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association,  namely  that the Agreement referred
to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement has been duly made and is
legally binding upon the Borrower  and ISAR in accordance with its
terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.O3  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances
          B.P. 158
          Kigali
          Rwandese Republic
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFIN-Kigali                   287
                                                MINFIN
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
Page  10
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                          By /s/ Aloys Uwimana
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                        Amount of the
                      Credit Allocated         % of
                        (Expressed in      Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works           3,640,000      95%
(2)  Equipment,            2,640,000      100% of foreign
     vehicles                             expenditures and
     materials and                        95% of local
     inputs                               expenditures
(3)  Consultants,          2,250,000      100%
     training and
     studies
(4)  Promotional           1,730,000      95%
     activities
     under Part E
     of the Project
(5)  Forest and            1,860,000      95%
     coffee nurseries
                        Amount of the
                      Credit Allocated         % of
                        (Expressed in      Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6)  Operating costs       1,860,000      75% of expenditures
                                          paid through
                                          December 31, 1990;
                                          60% of expenditures
                                          paid from January 1, 1991
                                          to December 31, 1991;
                                          50% of expenditures
                                          paid from January 1, 1992
                                          to December 31, 1992;
Page  11
                                          35% of expenditures
                                          paid from January 1, 1993
                                          to December 31, 1993
(7)  Unallocated           1,520,000
                          __________
     TOTAL                15,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term  "operating  costs"  means  the  cost of office
supplies,  building   and   equipment   maintenance  and  vehicles
operating costs but  does  not  include  any  salary,  per diem or
transportation allowance which shall be borne by the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to strengthen adaptive
and on-farm research; (ii)  to  improve  the delivery of extension
services to farmers with a  particular emphasis on reaching women;
(iii) to strengthen the production  of  selected seed; and (iv) to
promote greater private sector  participation  in the marketing of
agricultural inputs and produce.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Extension
     Reorganization and streamlining of  extension services in all
or part of the  prefectures  of Cyangugu, Kigali, Kibuye, Kibungo,
and Gisenyi including:
     (a)  implementation of a new structure integrating extension,
adaptive research, monitoring and evaluation;
     (b)  improvements  in   the   links   between   research  and
extension;
     (c)  investments  to   strengthen   livestock   and  forestry
extension activities;
     (d)  continuous on-the-job training of extension staff; and
     (e)  improvements  in   the   methodology   and   content  of
extension.
Part B:   Adaptive and On-farm Research
     Strengthening of adaptive and on-farm research through:
     (a)  diagnostic surveys at the farm level;
     (b)  inclusion of farmers  and  local  authorities in problem
Page  12
identification and solving;
     (c)  implementation of on-farm and  multi-local trials of new
techniques and technologies; and
     (d)  support for communal agricultural planning.
Part C:   Monitoring and Evaluation
     Support of monitoring and evaluation through:
     (a)  implementation of a management information system;
     (b)  sensitization and training of staff to the new system of
monitoring and evaluation;
     (c)  development of  indicators  for  monitoring the internal
functioning  of  the  agricultural  services  and  the  impact  of
extension; and
     (d)  regular reviews by technical  staff supplemented by more
detailed outside evaluations as needed.
Part D:   Seed Production
     Strengthening of seed production and distribution through:
     (a)  Support to  SSS  to  improve  seed  quality  control and
certification;
     (b)  support to NSC for supervision of seed regulation;
     (c)  improvement of seeds pricing policy; and
     (d)  rationalization  of   seed   production  including:  (i)
improvement  in  the  management  of  existing  seed  farms;  (ii)
establishing of a new multi-purpose and demonstration seed farm in
Bugarama; and (iii) involvement of farmers in seed multiplication.
Part E:   Promotion
     Promotion of  private  sector  participation  in marketing of
agricultural inputs and products through:
     (a)  the establishment of an Agricultural Promotion Office to
assist farmers and farmer cooperative groups: (i) in the obtaining
of credit from financial  institutions;  and (ii) in improving the
management of agricultural enterprises;
     (b)  the  provision   by   BP,   IWACU  and  non-governmental
organizations of the services  specified  in paragraph (a) of this
Part; and
     (c)  the construction of three  quays  along Lake Kivu in the
Project Area.
                 *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
Page  13
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts  shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $100,000 or more
each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territory may be  granted  a  margin  of  preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, with  the  exception  of  those  relating to the
construction of three quays under Part E (c) of the Project, items
which cannot be grouped or groups  of items estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000  but  not less than the equivalent
of $20,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items which cannot be grouped or groups of items estimated to
cost less than the equivalent  of  $20,000  per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  the equivalent of $600,000, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
Page  14
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  in  the carrying out of the
Project described in Schedule  2  to  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall  employ  consultants   and   experts  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means Categories (1) to
(6) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
Page  15
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnishedto the Association, 
the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request; or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
(or,  if  the  Association   shall   so  request,  refund  to  the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
Page  16
