Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT                
29006
 
GEORGIA  
 
Project 
Name: 
   Reform 
Support 
Credit 
 
Region: 
    Europe 
and 
Central 
Asia 
 
Sector: 
    Adjustment 
Operation 
 
 
Project 
ID: 
   P057814 
 
Borrower: 
   
Government of Georgia
 
 
Implementing Agency:   
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
Date this PID prepared:  
 
April 29, 2004 
 
Projected Board Date: 
 
 
June 24, 2004  
 
1.
 Background. 
 
In the past, Georgia undertook many reforms with a certain degree of 
success, particularly in the privatization of state enterprises, trade liberalization and 
modernization of its legal framework.  Although there was a growth response in some years, the 
beneficial impact and sustainability of the reforms was often limited by weak implementation.  
The main reasons for this situation were the sharp deterioration in governance and a 
fragmentation of power among competing groups in government and between the central and 
local authorities.   
 
2. 
Georgia’s peaceful "Rose Revolution" of late November 2003 was in many respects a 
general uprising against what the population perceived as increasing mismanagement and 
corruption in government, and a steady deterioration in economic conditions and well-being. The 
new President, Mikheil Saakashvili, obtained 97 percent of the votes in the January 2004 election, 
which was considered by domestic and international monitors as largely corruption-free.  
Parliamentary elections were held on March 28, 2004, and the governing parties obtained an 
overwhelming majority in a ratification of the mandate given in the Presidential election. Both 
election results were interpreted as a strong endorsement of a call for deep and far-reaching 
change in Georgia.      
 
3. 
The new Government, responding to its strong mandate, is acting decisively on 
improving governance/anti-corruption and public sector management.  In the few months since 
assuming office, important progress has been achieved.   
 
4. 
Project Scope and Objectives.
  The proposed credit would provide quick and urgently 
needed assistance to Georgia’s new authorities to help restore fiscal balance, and support a first 
phase of efforts to undertake important economic and governance reforms in the areas of: (i) 
strengthening governance/anti-corruption and public sector management; (ii) improving public 
finance management and financial accountability; and (iii) taking steps to resolve crucial issues of  
the energy sector. Actions taken in these areas would contribute significantly to the 
implementation of broader structural reforms over the medium term.  At the same time, the 
Page  2
 
 
proposed operation aims to define, in broad preliminary terms, a framework for future policy-
based lending and policy dialogue by IDA to support Georgia’s medium-term economic growth 
and poverty reduction efforts. 
 
5. 
Environmental Aspects.  
In accordance with the Association’s Operational Policies (OP 
4.01), the proposed operation has been placed in Category “C” and does not require an 
environmental assessment. 
 
6. 
Benefits.
  The proposed operation would help the new authorities in their efforts to 
improve governance and invigorate the reform process. In particular, the proposed operation is 
consistent with the Government’s recent Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Program 
(EDPRP, i.e., PRSP) and would contribute to poverty reduction.  First, the proposed Credit aims 
to address, as central issues, governance, corruption and the business environment, thereby 
making economic activities more sustainable and facilitating the creation of new businesses, and 
helping to reduce unemployment. Second, a stable fiscal environment allows for the timely 
payment of salaries, pensions, and social expenditures, and thereby contributes to poverty 
reduction.  The Credit aims to help the Government’s programs in the EDPRP to be linked to the 
budget process.  
  
7. 
The new Government inherited a desperate fiscal situation, coupled with an almost 
completely collapsed state apparatus.  It has taken bold measures to address the underlying 
problems of corruption, poor governance, and fiscal imbalances, which have considerably 
enhanced its credibility. However, the sustainability of the reform process depends critically on 
quick progress to address the problem of chronic arrears in salaries, pensions and other social 
expenditure. Resources from the proposed Credit would assist the Government in restoring fiscal 
balance for which the Government has already taken strong measures. 
 
8. 
Potential Risks
.  The lack of financial resources could itself become a determinant of 
failure. The proposed Credit, together with support through the IMF’s new PRGF, assistance 
from other donors, and improved domestic revenue performance, would help to mitigate this risk. 
 
9. 
The Government’s reform efforts would also face the following main risks: (i) 
reappearance of a deteriorated security and/or political environment (e.g., issues surrounding the 
semi-autonomous regions); (ii) powerful special interest groups opposing reforms and better 
governance; and (iii) weak implementation capacity of the Government. Nonetheless, the new 
political environment in Georgia and the overwhelming electoral victory of the present 
Government would help to ameliorate these risks.  The lessons of past adjustment lending, 
including the weak implementation capacity of the government, have been carefully factored into 
the design of this operation: notably, through the narrow focus on priority issues and the 
requirement for upfront implementation of reform actions. 
 
Contact point: 
 
Team Leader: 
 
Su Yong Song (ECSPE): Tel: (202) 458 0498; Fax: (202) 522 2753  
 
Public Information Center 
The World Bank 
1818 H St., NW  
Washington, D.C., 20433 
Page  3
 
 
Tel.: (202) 458-5454 
Fax.: (202) 522-1500 
 
Note: This information is provided for an evolving project. Certain components may not necessarily 
be included in the final project, while the scope and cost of other components may be adjusted. 
 
 
