Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT            
29274
 
GEORGIA  
 
Project Name: 
 
 
 
Reform Support Credit 
 
Region: 
    Europe 
and 
Central 
Asia 
 
Sector: 
    Adjustment 
Operation 
 
 
Project 
ID: 
   P057814 
 
Borrower: 
   Government 
of 
Georgia 
 
Implementing Agency:   
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
Date this PID prepared:  
 
June 2, 2004 
 
Projected Board Date: 
 
 
June 24, 2004  
 
1.
 Background. 
 
In the past, Georgia undertook many reforms with a certain degree of 
success, particularly in the privatization of state enterprises, trade liberalization and 
modernization of its legal framework.  Although there was a growth response in some years, the 
beneficial impact and sustainability of the reforms was often limited by weak implementation.  
The main reasons for this situation were the sharp deterioration in governance and a 
fragmentation of power among competing groups in government and between the central and 
local authorities.   
 
2. 
Georgia’s peaceful "Rose Revolution" of late November 2003 was in many respects a 
general uprising against what the population perceived as increasing mismanagement and 
corruption in government, and a steady deterioration in economic conditions and well-being. The 
new President, Mikheil Saakashvili, obtained 97 percent of the votes in the January 2004 election, 
which was considered by domestic and international monitors as largely corruption-free.  
Parliamentary elections were held on March 28, 2004, and the governing parties obtained an 
overwhelming majority in a ratification of the mandate given in the Presidential election. Both 
election results were interpreted as a strong endorsement of a call for deep and far-reaching 
change in Georgia.      
 
3. 
The new Government, responding to its strong mandate, is acting decisively on 
improving governance/anti-corruption and public sector management.  In the few months since 
assuming office, important progress has been achieved.   
 
4. 
Project Scope and Objectives.
 
The proposed Credit (in the amount of US$24 million) 
aims to provide initial assistance to the new Government of Georgia in the first phase of efforts to 
define and launch a bold program of economic, legal, and social reforms. The Credit  would 
support urgent actions in the following areas: (i) improvement in governance/anti-corruption; (ii) 
improvement in public finance management; and (iii) steps to resolve crucial issues in the energy 
sector. Actions taken in these areas would contribute significantly to the implementation of 
broader structural reforms over the medium term.  At the same time, the proposed operation aims 
Page  2
to define, in broad preliminary terms, a framework for future policy-based lending and policy 
dialogue by IDA to support Georgia’s medium-term economic growth and poverty reduction 
efforts. 
 
5. 
Environmental Aspects.  
The proposed Credit is not expected to have any direct impact 
on the environment.  The Government is recommended to carry out a Strategic Environmental 
Impact Assessment for the purposes of developing a Strategic Action Plan for energy sector 
development, as well as introducing environmental impact assessment procedures for enterprises 
that are potentially harmful for the environmental or intended for privatization into its plan for 
improving management of the State Owned Enterprises. 
 
6. 
Benefits.
 
The proposed operation would help the new authorities in their efforts to 
improve governance and invigorate the economic reform process, as well as support fiscal 
stability and poverty reduction directly. First, the proposed Credit aims to address, as central 
issues, governance, corruption and the business environment, thereby making economic activities 
more sustainable and facilitating the creation of new businesses, and helping to create 
employment. Second, a stable fiscal environment allows for the timely payment of salaries, 
pensions, and social expenditures, and thereby contributes to poverty reduction.  The Credit also 
aims to help the Government link the programs in the Economic Development and Poverty 
Reduction Program (i.e., its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper) to the budget process.   
 
7. 
Potential Risks
.
The new Government inherited a desperate fiscal situation, coupled 
with an almost completely collapsed state apparatus.  It has taken decisive measures to begin 
addressing the underlying problems of corruption and poor governance, which have considerably 
enhanced its credibility. A variety of measures have also been adopted that should strengthen the 
fiscal position progressively. However, in the near term, the sustainability of the reform process 
depends critically on quick progress to address the problem of chronic arrears in salaries, 
pensions and other social expenditures, and the lack of financial resources could cause the 
program to fail. The proposed Credit, together with support through the IMF’s new Poverty 
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), assistance from other donors, and improved domestic 
revenue performance, would help to mitigate this risk.  The Government’s reform efforts also 
face the following main risks:  (i) reappearance of a deteriorated security and/or political 
environment (e.g., issues surrounding the breakaway regions); (ii) powerful special interest 
groups opposing reforms and better governance; and (iii) weak implementation capacity of the 
Government. 
 
8. 
The new political environment in Georgia, the overwhelming electoral victories of the 
present Government at the Presidential and Parliamentary elections, and  the recent return of 
Adjara under the authority of the Government of Georgia help to ameliorate these risks.  For this 
operation, the lessons of past adjustment lending, in particular the weak implementation capacity 
of the government, have been carefully factored into the design: notably, through the narrow 
focus on priority issues and the requirement for upfront implementation of reform actions. Over 
the medium term, the weak implementation capacity poses concern on the sustainability of the 
reform program implementation.  The new Government has started taking initiatives to address 
this weakness. Donors are actively supporting these initiatives 
 
Contact point: 
 
Team Leader: 
 
Su Yong Song (ECSPE): Tel: (202) 458 0498; Fax: (202) 522 2753  
Page  3
Public Information Center 
The World Bank 
1818 H St., NW  
Washington, D.C., 20433 
Tel.: (202) 458-5454 
Fax.: (202) 522-1500 
 
Note: This information is provided for an evolving project. Certain components may not necessarily 
be included in the final project, while the scope and cost of other components may be adjusted. 
 
