                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 32781-GE




                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IDA-39370 TF-53931)

                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                       GEORGIA

                                        FOR A

                               REFORM SUPPORT CREDIT




                                      June 29, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 27, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Lari
                                  GEL 1.8125 = US$ 1.00
                                   US$ 0.5517 = GEL 1.00

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    -  December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACPD      Anti-Corruption Policy Department
ALPE      Association for Legal and Judicial Public Education
ASYCUDA   Automated System for Customs Data
BDD       Budget Data and Directions
BSL       Budget Systems Law
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIS       Commonwealth of Independent States
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report
CSB       Civil Service Bureau
CSC       Civil Service Council
DFID      Department for International Development (UK)
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA       Europe and Central Asia
EDPRPEconomic Development and Poverty Reduction Program
ESBI      ESB International (Ireland's National Electric Utility)
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GEL       Georgian Lari
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IDP       Internally Displaced People
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MOE       Ministry of Economy
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MoLHSA    Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Assistance
MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NBG       National Bank of Georgia
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
PD        Program Document
PPER      Programmatic Public Expenditure Review
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Fund
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD       Private Sector Development

RSC     Reform Support Credit
SEMA    State Enterprise Management Agency
SOE     State-Owned Enterprise
SPA     State Procurement Agency
SRS     Structural Reform Support Project
STDG    State Tax Department of Georgia
SUSIF   State United Social Insurance Fund
TA      Technical Assistance
UDC     Unified Distribution Company
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
VTT     Internal Transit Document

                             Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
                   Sector Director/Manager       Cheryl Gray/Samuel Otoo
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Su Yong Song/Afsaneh Sedghi

                                          GEORGIA
                            Reform Support Credit (former SAC4)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P057814                                                  Project Name: Reform Support Credit (former SAC4)
Team Leader: Su Yong Song                                            TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Reform Support Credit (former SAC4)                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-39370; TF-53931
   Country/Department: GEORGIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (65%); General industry and
                            trade sector (20%); Health (5%); Other social services (5%); General
                            energy sector (5%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Public expenditure,
                            financial management and procurement (P); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (S); Regulation and competition policy
                            (S); Legal institutions for a market economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/25/2004                                     Effective: 08/19/2004                08/19/2004
     Appraisal: 05/05/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/24/2004                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      GOVERNMENT OF NETHERLANDS

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Cheryl W. Gray                                 Cheryl W. Gray
Team Leader at ICR:             Su Yong Song                                   Su Yong Song
ICR Primary Author:             Afsaneh Sedghi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Economic Context

Georgia is a small economy of 4.6 million people with a GNI per capita income of US$910 in
2004. The preceding decade had been marked by severe political and economic shocks, slow
pace of structural reforms, pervasive corruption and unsustainable levels of external debt. The
sluggishness of Georgia's transition process is revealed by the fact that real GDP remains below 40
percent of its pre transition level, evidencing the worst economic collapse among the CIS countries.
                                                                 Table 1. Index of Real GDP (1990=100)
                                         1990      1991      1992 1993  1994  1995  1996 1997 1998 1999  2000 2001  2002  2003  2004
Armenia                                  100.0     88.3     51.4  46.9   49.4 52.8  55.9 57.8 62.0  64.0 67.9 74.4  84.0  95.7  105.3
Azerbaijan                               100.0     99.3     76.9  59.1   47.5 41.9  42.4 44.9 49.3  53.0 58.9 64.7  71.6  79.6  87.7
Belarus                                  100.0     98.8     89.3  82.5   72.9 65.5  67.3 75.0 81.3  84.1 89.0 93.1  97.8  104.7 116.2
Georgia                                  100.0     71.9     40.7  24.7   21.9 22.4  24.7 27.3 28.1  29.0 29.5 30.9  32.6  36.2  38.4
Kazakhstan                               100.0     89.0     84.3  76.5   66.9 61.4  61.7 62.8 61.6  63.2 69.4 78.8  86.5  94.6  103.5
Kyrgyz Republic                          100.0     92.1     79.3  67.0   53.5 50.6  54.2 59.6 60.9  63.1 66.5 70.1  70.1  75.0  80.3
Moldova                                  100.0     84.0     59.6  58.8   40.7 40.1  37.7 38.3 35.9  34.6 35.4 37.5  40.4  43.1  46.3
Russia                                   100.0     95.0     81.2  74.2   64.8 62.2  59.9 60.8 57.5  61.2 67.3 70.8  74.1  79.5  85.2
Tajikistan                               100.0     92.9     66.0  55.2   43.4 38.1  31.7 32.2 34.0  35.2 38.1 42.0  45.8  50.5  55.9
Turkmenistan                             100.0     95.3     90.2  81.2   67.2 62.3  58.2 51.6 55.0  64.1 76.0 91.5  109.7 128.3 150.1
Ukraine                                  100.0     91.3     82.3  70.6   54.4 47.8  43.0 41.7 40.9  40.8 43.2 47.2  49.6  54.4  61.0
Uzbekistan                               100.0     99.5     88.4  86.3   81.8 81.1  82.5 86.8 90.5  94.4 98.0 102.1 106.2 110.6 119.2

CIS                                      100.0     93.8     80.5  72.2   61.8 58.1  56.1 57.0 55.9  58.4 63.3 67.6  71.4  77.1  83.8
ECA Region                               100.0     93.5     84.9  80.5   73.5 72.8  73.1 75.1 75.0  77.1 82.5 85.7  90.3  96.3  103.8

Regional indices are population-weighted average growth rates.

Source: ECA Regional Tables, March 2005




Following weak economic performance in the 1990s, Georgia's economy started a robust growth
path in 2001 driven by a rebound in agriculture from a severe drought in 2000, and a strong
growth in transport, communications, construction and trade.                                      The construction of the
Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline has also had strong spill over effects on the economy. GDP
growth averaged 7 percent over 2001-2003. Despite this robust growth, fiscal performance
remained sluggish. Tax revenues lingered at low levels of 14 percent of GDP due to massive tax
evasion, smuggling and a large underground economy. Along with poor budget preparation and
execution, Government inability to cover basic social expenditure needs resulted in large
accumulation of wage and pension arrears which amounted to 4.5 percent of GDP by the end of
2003.        Despite some degree of achievement with the reforms taken earlier particularly in
privatization of state enterprises, trade liberalization and modernization of the legal system, the
sustainability of the reforms and their effective implementation was hampered by poor
governance, lack of transparency and fragmentation of power between various levels of
government and their related interest groups. Foremost governance problems and pervasive
corruption resulted in a regime change with a new government that took office in November
2003. The new political environment inspired a renewed energy and dynamism to improve
governance and accelerate reforms.




                                                                        - 2 -

Government's decisive actions in early 2004 in combating corruption and restoring fiscal
performance were remarkable. An increase in general government tax revenues of 33 percent in
the first five months of 2004 allowed a much faster clearance of expenditure arrears than earlier
planned. The donor community recognized the commitment of the new government in a meeting
in Brussels in June 2004 and pledged over 1 billion dollars of pledges to finance Georgia's reform
program and increase core social and infrastructure spending during 2004-06.

Original Objective:

The Reform Support Credit (RSC) was approved on June 24, 2004, in the amount of SDR 16.6
million equivalent to US$24 million. It was aimed to provide much needed initial assistance to the
new Government of Georgia in its first phase of efforts to improve governance and reinvigorate
the economic reform process.       The original objectives of RSC, as stated in the Program
Document, dated May 27, 2004, were to support urgent government actions in the following
areas: (i) improvement in governance/anti-corruption; (ii) improvement in public finance
management; and (iii) steps to resolve the crucial issues of the energy sector. These objectives
were built around the priority needs of the Government as highlighted in its Economic
Development and Poverty Reduction Program (EDPRP). The RSC was prepared in the context
of strong cooperation and in close collaboration with the Government, the IMF's program
supported by the Poverty Reduction and Growth facility (PRGF), and other donors, and benefited
from IDA's extensive policy dialogue, economic and sector work, policy based and investment
operations and technical assistance over the previous few years. The RSC was designed as a
single tranche operation to support policy reform during an interim period in selected areas and to
prepare the groundwork for a policy framework which would be supported by annual Poverty
Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs).

To support the implementation of the RSC, the Netherlands Minister for Development
Cooperation provided a Grant in the amount of Euro 3 million which was signed on September
21, 2004, and disbursed in one tranche on November 19, 2004. The Grant was intended to
provide co-financing support to the Government of Georgia within the broad framework of the
RSC.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions in the original objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The components of the RSC were developed from the pillars of the Government's Economic
Development and Poverty Reduction Program (EDPRP, i.e. PRSP) which was completed in July
2003.    While prepared by the previous government, the new Government had in principle
endorsed the EDPRP as laying the foundation for implementation of its reform program with its
priorities being (i) governance, anti-corruption, civil service and fiscal/public finance, (ii)
rehabilitation of the energy sector, (iii) protecting the vulnerable, health services, education, and
social protection, (iv) promoting private sector development, including tourism, and (v)
promoting sustainable and regional development in agriculture and rural development, trade and



                                                 - 3 -

transport, through enhanced infrastructure rehabilitation and development and environmental
protection. Consistent with the objectives of the EDPRP and to assist the implementation of
Georgia's economic reform program, the RSC supported urgent actions in the following areas:

       Strengthening Governance/Anti-Corruption and Public Sector Management
       Improving Public Finance Management and Financial Accountability
       Taking Steps to Resolve Crucial Issues of the Energy Sector
       Protecting the Vulnerable
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revisions in the original components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The operation was not selected for assessment at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).
However, the ICR concludes that quality at entry was satisfactory. The credit's objectives were
consistent with the goals of the Government EDPRP and closely coordinated with the PRGF
program of the IMF and other donors in Georgia. The design of the operation reflected lessons
learnt from the Bank's previous operations in Georgia. As a single tranche operation, the RSC
provided the Government with the flexibility to focus on critical priority areas while it developed
the ground work for a broader reform agenda that could be supported by the follow-up PRSCs.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
It should be mentioned at the outset that given the emergency nature of the operation and its short
implementation period, the performance of RSC and achievement of its objectives has to be
viewed in the context of the overall reform achievements under the new Georgian government. In
particular, the success of RSC has to be assessed not simply retroactively, but also in light of the
ground work that it laid for the upcoming programmatic policy operations. As such, based on the
supervision mission of September 2004 and the ICR mission of February/March 2005, the overall
progress on achievement of RSC objectives is considered satisfactory.

Georgia's new government had an impressively strong economic performance in 2004 with robust
growth, subdued inflation and substantial fiscal gains. With strong donor support and a favorable
restructuring of its debt service and arrears by the Paris Club in mid 2004 which helped reduce the
fiscal burden of debt obligations, Georgia embarked on important initial reform measures.
Significant progress was made in tax and customs administration, reducing tax evasion and
smuggling which led to substantial strengthening of the fiscal position. The enhanced revenue
collection permitted a sizable reduction in domestic wage and pension arrears with considerable
poverty impact for low income groups.




                                                   - 4 -

                               Table 2.      Georgia: Selected Economic Indicators 2000-2005
                                                                         2000   2001   2002   2003   2004  2005 proj/

  Real GDP growth (%)                                                     1.9    4.7    5.5    11.1   6.2     8.5
  Consumer price index (%, period average)                                4.0    4.7    5.6    4.8    5.7     9.4
  Broad money growth (%)                                                  39.0   18.5   17.9   22.8   42.6   31.8
  Exchange rate, average (Lari/US$)                                       1.98   2.07   2.20   2.15   1.92    ...
  Investment (% of GDP)                                                   21.6   21.9   22.0   24.4   26.6   28.9
  Government revenues (% of GDP)                                          15.2   16.3   15.8   16.2   21.8   21.7
  Tax revenues (% of GDP)                                                 14.2   14.3   14.4   14.5   18.2   18.1
  Government expenditures and net lending (% of GDP)                      19.2   18.3   17.8   18.7   19.5   25.2
  Fiscal balance (% of GDP, commitment basis)                             -4.0   -2.0   -2.0   -2.5   2.3    -3.5
  Fiscal balance (% of GDP, cash basis)                                   -2.6   -1.6   -1.9   -1.3   -0.2   -4.8
  Current account deficit (% of GDP)                                      4.3    6.4    5.8    7.2    7.6    11.8
   Gross official reserves (months of imports)                            1.0    1.4    1.7    1.3    1.7     1.8
   Total external debt (% GDP)                                            53.8   54.0   54.2   48.6   39.0   33.0
  External public debt (% of GDP)                                         51.3   51.7   52.4   46.4   35.8   29.4
  Domestic service (% of exports)                                         9.9    7.2    11.5   12.0   8.5     8.5
  Nominal GDP (in millions of US$)                                       3,042  3,201  3,392  3,984  5,183   6,303

  Sources: Georgian authorities; and World Bank and IMF staff estimates.




The government demonstrated its determination to fight corruption, streamline its structure and
improve public sector management. Tax and customs departments have been downsized to
optimize their structures and efforts are underway towards a civil service reform. Progress has
been made to initiate introduction of a multi-year budget framework to improve the link between
the budget formulation and execution and EDPRP priorities. The recent survey of doing business
indicated an improvement in the perceptions of the public regarding the business environment. In
its first progress report on the EDPRP, the government further highlighted its reform objectives
and priorities and the need to strengthen its capacity to implement the poverty reduction strategy
more effectively.


Prior to Board approval of the RSC, Georgia satisfactorily implemented the following key
actions:

1.        The Government submitted to IDA a report on the government's actions so far taken
regarding anti-corruption, including the identification of the mandates of core agencies, their roles
and strategies and identification of overlaps and gaps.

2.        The Government designated an administrative agency with the responsibility of oversight
and implementation of the civil service reform.

3.        The report by the Development and Reform Fund on its first three months of operations
was issued.

4.        The Government established a cross-ministerial commission, including representatives of
the private sector and supported by a technical secretariat, with the mandate to promote
improvements in the business environment.



                                                                    - 5 -

5.      The Government prepared an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for implementing reforms in
the Budget Systems Law.

6.      The Government issued orders eliminating the requirements for (i) the internal transit
document; and (ii) the non-excise consignment to travel in convoy (except for vehicles that are
unsecured).

7.      The Government submitted a time-bound action plan for electricity satisfactory to IDA
and adopted a legislation to address insolvency of electricity utilities.

8.      The Government upgraded the information systems, through implementation of the
ASYCUDA system (except for Adjara) to harmonize procedures and reduce the scope of
personal interface between customs officials and traders which sometimes results in illegal
practices.

9.      The Parliament adopted a new Law on Structure, Functions and Responsibilities of the
Government providing for reduction of a number of line ministries as well as consolidation of a
large number of previously semi-independent state departments within the respective ministries.

The Government adopted amendments on Administrative Violations Code to make procurement
fraud punishable.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Given the single tranche design of the operation, all conditions of the RSC were completed prior
to Board presentation. Nevertheless, progress with the implementation of the actions supported
by the RSC continues and would be further strengthened during the upcoming PRSC operation.
A review of the achievements of each component of the RSC is presented below:


Strengthening Governance/Anti-Corruption and Public Sector Management. (Satisfactory)

Public sector reform and anti-corruption have been at the core of the new government's reform
program, both as a measure to improve public sector effectiveness as well as to promote the
development of private sector. The overall assessment of the implementation of the reforms in
this area is rated satisfactory. The RSC supported government efforts through:

1.      Formulating, Implementing, and Monitoring an Anti-Corruption Strategy (Satisfactory)

    Anti corruption has been the main mandate of the new Georgian Government. A status report
    was prepared in May 2004 with participation from the civil society to describe the
    Government anti-corruption measures in enhancing transparency and accountability of the
    Government, and legal changes that had so far been proposed and the actions undertaken to
    strengthen its anti-corruption agenda. The efforts entailed prosecution of former government
    officials suspected of corruption, dissolving the traffic police and cutting back law
    enforcement agencies to get rid of corrupt agents and discourage bribe taking, approving a


                                               - 6 -

  new tax code and a new law on financial amnesty, and restructuring of tax and customs
  department to improve collection, reduce smuggling and curtail the activities of the informal
  economy. These efforts are moving towards necessary structural and institutional changes to
  further formulate and launch an effective anti corruption program which would focus more on
  reducing opportunities for corruption.

2.    Improving Governance through Administrative/Civil Service Reform (Satisfactory)

  As part of its agenda to improve governance and establish an efficient and effective public
  sector, the Government has embarked on significant downsizing in the civil service and
  removing of corrupt officials. Supported by the RSC, the Parliament adopted a new Law on
  Structure, Functions and Responsibilities of the Government granting the reduction of a
  number of line ministries as well as consolidation of a large number of previously
  semi-independent state departments within the respective ministries. Accordingly, the number
  of ministries was reduced from 18 to 14 and the previous 18 state departments were abolished
  and their functions transferred to the relevant ministries. However, there has been limited
  progress in developing a civil service reform strategy. Initial steps have been taken towards
  putting in place the necessary institutional arrangements such as establishing the Civil Service
  Bureau (CSB) and Civil Service Council (CSC) to coordinate the civil service reform.
  Nevertheless, the Bureau is not fully operational as yet and has very limited capacity to deliver
  according to its mandate. Although, the Civil Service Reform guidelines have not yet been
  developed, the ministries have been requested to review their functions, goals and objectives.
  In this regard, MoLHSA has undertaken some efforts on functional review and reorganization
  of the ministry by merging number of departments, developing new staff profiles and
  establishing hiring and selection procedures. These efforts are still of limited scope and
  without guidance from CSB or CSC. The Government's recent EDPRP progress report
  recognizes that to date these reforms in ministries have not been an unequivocal success and
  highlights the need for better coordination and guidance from the center.

3.    Improving Governance to Promote Private Sector Development (Satisfactory)

  The key challenge for the Government in this area has been improving the regulatory and
  business    environment     as   a    pre-requisite   for   (a)   promoting     private    sector
  development/improving the investment climate, and (b) facilitating trade, transit, and
  transport.   As part of the RSC prior actions for Board presentation, the Government
  established a cross-ministerial commission with representatives from the private sector
  mandated to promote improvements in the business environment. According to latest study of
  doing business in Georgia, the reforms in simplifying the regulatory environment, and
  restructuring of tax and customs administration have greatly improved the environment for
  functioning of businesses. The new tax code that was approved in December 2004 reduced
  the number of taxes from 22 to 7, lowered rates and introduced a new system for tax refund
  that allows for shorter time processing of claims by export businesses. The problems however
  remain in the weak judicial system faced by business in resolving their issues in courts, as well
  as administrative arrangements governing licensing and inspection authorities. The authorities
  are moving towards formulation of a judicial system to expedite procedures and enhance



                                               - 7 -

   enforceability of contracts.      Trade and transit cargo have significantly benefited from
   elimination of travel and transit document requirements.


Improving Public Finance Management and Financial Accountability (Satisfactory)

The RSC supported Government measures to improve public expenditure management, budgeting
and financial management processes, and public financial accountability by focusing on:

1.     Public Expenditure Management (Satisfactory)

   Government has made strong progress towards a medium term expenditure framework
   (MTEF) in order to link the budget preparation and execution more directly to priorities in the
   EDPRP. Government amended its Budget Systems Law (BSL), and an action plan was
   prepared to implement its reforms. The amended BSL introduced an improved process for
   formulating the budget and initiated the approach to a more results focused budget
   preparation in the context of a MTEF which would be adopted by the Ministry of Finance for
   its 2006 budget formulation process and onward. In addition, the Government has introduced
   a new Treasury System, designed to improve cash management and to facilitate better
   controls of commitments in the future. Efforts in public expenditure management reform are
   ongoing and will be further enhanced under the upcoming PRSC operation and the
   Programmatic Public Expenditure Review, and in close collaboration with other donors and
   with participation of civil society.

2.     Financial Accountability (Satisfactory)

   The RSC supported Government reform program in the areas of (a) public financial controls,
   (b) public procurement management, and (c) state-owned enterprise audit/management, and in
   particular, in line with the priorities identified and recommendations made in the 2003 Country
   Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and the 2002 Country Procurement Assessment
   (CPAR) action plans. These priorities related to fiduciary issues and required strengthening
   institutional capacity and fostering a culture of compliance in auditing, financial control and
   procurement. In this regard, the Parliament recently approved a new State Procurement Law
   (SPL) which would come to effect as of January 2006. There has thus not been much
   progress in implementation of these recommendations yet. Nonetheless, as mentioned above,
   the Government has made progress in integrating its extra-budgetary funds into a single
   Treasury Account which is necessary for effective control of various entities budgets and
   improved cash management. Efforts are underway to include revenues and expenditures of all
   entities of central government in the single treasury account, given that there are an increasing
   number of newly established entities and a number of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) whose
   budgets remain outside the overall budget framework. The new Law on Structure, Functions
   and Responsibilities of the Government provides for consolidation of a large number of
   previously semi-independent state departments within the respective ministries. Furthermore,
   the Government adopted amendments on Administrative Violations Code to make
   procurement fraud punishable. The State Procurement Agency web-site which was developed



                                                   - 8 -

    as part of the RSC recommendations needs to be updated and operationalized. In summary,
    despite some improvements, progress has generally been slow in this area. Discussions are
    ongoing with the Chamber of Control on the development of a comprehensive reform and
    capacity building strategy to further improve transparency and accountability within the
    Government entities.

Taking Steps to Resolve Crucial Issues of the Energy Sector (Satisfactory)

The new Government has made continuous electricity service delivery to the population an
important objective of its reform program and in 2004 took several steps to help remedy the
severe energy situation.      As a pre-Board presentation condition of the RSC, Government
prepared a medium term action plan for the sector, and Legislation was passed to address
insolvency of electricity utilities. State-owned power companies UDC (distribution) and GSE
(transmission) have obtained such legal protection. The Government employed consultants to
establish a Debt Restructuring Agency with the objective of reducing the excessive debt from the
power sector and establishing conditions for solvent operations going forward. However, at the
time of this report, the Government had not taken decisions on the debt issue. An international
management contract for the dominant power distribution utility outside Tbilisi (UDC) was
extended by two years to late fall 2006. Progress was made in stronger enforcement of utility
collections and thus reducing quasi-fiscal losses. However, since some of the internal funds were
used to finance electricity imports to provide for a somewhat increased supply level of electricity
to outside Tbilisi, there was less improvement in the financing of transmission and domestic
generation operations.     The maintenance and investment backlog remain a major problem,
although substantially increased funds to the sector are planned from the 2005 state budget, and
more donor/IFIs funds are under preparation.

Protecting the Vulnerable (Satisfactory)

Poverty reduction and social protection have been at the core of the Government EDPRP. As
such, the objective of the RSC was to ensure (a) improving the implementation of the EDPRP by
updating, revising, improving, and reporting on its progress in regards to poverty reduction
initiatives, and to help Government address the most urgent issues related to (b) social sectors and
poverty reduction. The recently completed EDPRP Progress Report on Government
achievements in 2004 gave an account of the efforts made by the Government in the area of
poverty monitoring and reporting, introduction of targeted poverty benefits aimed at poverty
alleviation among the extreme poor, developing the capacity to better use household budget
survey results in monitoring developments in the social sectors, and most importantly, progress
made in timely payment and clearing of substantial amount of public sector wage and pension
arrears that were accumulated over many years. Given that the arrears were concentrated in poor
regions (in cities the benefits were paid on time), it can be assumed that the poverty impact of the
Government's efforts has been non-negligible. As of January 2005, minimum pension amount has
been doubled and social transfers are being paid on time. Health, education and social protection
sectors face a range of structural, institutional, financial, policy and implementation issues that
need to be addressed. The Government has moved ahead to address some of these issues. In the
education sector, the National Goals for Education and new laws on higher and general education



                                                   - 9 -

were adopted. These documents envisage significant changes in the management and financing of
the education system and are expected to substantially turn around the education sector
performance. The Government has taken important steps to pool public financing for health
services from different sources (central and local government funding, payroll tax revenues) into
one fund managed by the State United Social Insurance Fund (SUSIF) It should be noted that the
payroll tax earmarked for health financing has recently been abolished.. In addition, the Ministry of
Refugees and Resettlement has undertaken re-registration of IDPs and the process is almost
completed. The Ministry is also streamlining the delivery process of benefits provided to IDPs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Net present value/economic rate of return is not applicable to policy based lending operations..

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rate of return is not applicable to policy based lending operations.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Although the RSC was prepared in a short time span as a rapid response to the needs of the new
Government and has had a short time span of implementation, the reforms it supported have
initiated and promoted changes that would have substantial institutional development impact.
These changes have affected the institutional settings which would encourage good governance,
rule of law, transparency and accountability. The new Law on Structure, Functions and
Responsibilities of the Government allowed restructuring of government organizations and
abolishing parallel structures across ministries which have resulted in a more clearly defined roles,
functions and responsibilities of the Government apparatus and enhanced efficiency and
accountability of the public sector. The amendments on Administrative Violations Code to make
procurement fraud punishable have set in place the guiding principles needed to improve financial
accountability of the government. Similarly, establishment of a cross-ministerial commission to
promote improvements in the business environment, an administrative agency with the
responsibility of oversight and implementation of the civil service reform, as well as introduction
of a single treasury to improve public expenditure management and a new tax code are all among
reform actions supported by the RSC that would have strong positive institutional impact in
Georgia. To sustain the development impact of the RSC supported reform program, Government
should have an effective mechanism to follow up and enhance its implementation. The Bank and
other donors efforts are geared to provide further support in that direction.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The new Government of Georgia inherited an economy characterized by years of mismanagement
and pervasive corruption, poor infrastructure and low institutional and technical capacity, and a
population with declining income and limited access to basic services. With a strong mandate for
change, the new Government had to fulfill long due expectations of the Georgian population in a
relatively short period of time to maintain its popular support. This has been possible so far
owing to the intensified efforts of the new administration. However, the resistance of different
groups and vested interests at times has slowed the pace of reforms.




                                                      - 10 -

A continued vulnerability factor in successful implementation of the reform program in Georgia
has been the political tension over the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. These
conflicts cause not only security but economic concerns as well. The failure to resolve them has a
negative impact on the economic development of both the regions themselves and the country as a
whole. The lack of control over economic activities in these regions pushes the economy
"underground" and promotes smuggling, while the issue of instability and the threat of possible
further conflict hinder foreign investment in the country. Similarly, the success in resolving the
Adjara conflict while improving the security in that region has significantly benefited the state
budget by recovering control over the economy of the area and its trade with Turkey.

Increasing energy prices in the past year have added an additional financial burden on the
Georgian economy, poor energy infrastructure and service. The overall energy need of the
country is a serious priority issue for the government which if not tackled can seriously undermine
the trust of the people.

The weak capacity of the public sector is another constraint to implementation of the reforms.
While this is outside the control of the Government in the short term, it is nonetheless an area for
urgent government action and donor support.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The implementation impact of factors subject to government control has been mixed. The strong
commitment, determination and decisive actions of the new Government have had a strong
positive impact on pursuing critical reform initiatives and combating corruption.         However,
implementation can be further improved through better coordination efforts within and between
various Government agencies in charge of the reforms. Increased civil society participation and
NGOs consultation can also have a strong positive impact on the sustainability of the
implementation process.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) as the implementing agency has made significant progress in
revenue mobilization, budget preparation, expenditure management, and in particular, initiating
development of an MTEF, albeit slowly given the lack of implementation capacity.. Nevertheless,
the supporting and coordinating role that the MOF needs to play among the ministries and other
agencies in identifying sector priorities and their financing requirements could be further
improved. Given that the government's social welfare obligations remain high, owing to the high
level of unemployment and poverty, and the economy is in substantial need of capital investment,
the MOF has an important role to play in improving the overall fiscal management, as well as
improving management of key spending ministries through upgrading of their policy analysis and
financial control capabilities.      Analytical assistance will be provided as part of the Bank's
Programmatic Public Expenditure Review (PPER), which will be used by the DFID team in the
MOF and in collaboration with the US Treasury Adviser to enhance the implementation capacity
of the MOF.




                                                    - 11 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total original credit amount was SDR 16.6 million (US$ 24 million equivalent). The entire
credit amount was disbursed in one tranche. The credit was made on standard IDA terms with a
maturity of 40 years including a 10 year grace period, a commitment fee of 0.5 percent on
undisbursed balances, and an IDA service charge of 0.75 percent on the principal amount
withdrawn and outstanding. The borrower was the Government of Georgia.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the reforms implemented under the RSC is rated as likely over the medium
term.     The government has satisfactorily continued its reform program, and measures
implemented under the RSC laid the ground work for a broader medium term reform agenda that
would be supported under the upcoming programmatic poverty reduction operations. One risk
factor that was mentioned in the RSC Program Document (PD) as an important factor that could
jeopardize the sustainability of the reform process was the quick progress needed by the
government to address the problem of arrears in salaries and pensions. The substantial gain in
fiscal revenues resulting from strengthened tax administration and the fight against corruption,
smuggling and tax evasion allowed the Government to clear wage and pension arrears much faster
than had been anticipated and to fully clear them by mid-2005, nearly one year ahead of the
original plan     This has undoubtedly achieved substantial gains in poverty reduction.            The
successful completion of Paris Club rescheduling of Georgia's debt has further improved the fiscal
burden of debt service payments. There continue to be concerns with low capacity of the
Government in ensuring full implementation of reforms. It is envisaged that a number of donors
Technical Assistance (TA) operations are either in place or would be initiated in the areas where
capacity building is needed to maintain the sustainability of the RSC achievements and strengthen
the foundation for the upcoming PRSC operations.             In addition to full ownership of the
Government, the broad consultations with other donors and civil society in Georgia, on the design
and implementation of the RSC have largely increased the sustainability of the supported
program. The risk of regional instability and the existing conflicts with the breakaway regions
continue to make the success of reform program vulnerable.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The RSC was an emergency operation to help the new Government of Georgia in the initial stages
of its reform program, to build the ground work, and to be a bridge toward a series of
programmatic adjustment operations that would follow to support Government's EDPRP
objectives of improving growth and reducing poverty. It would help the Government with the
design and formulation of strategies and development of action plans to deepen and sustain the
reform program. The PRSC will begin its first of the three phases in FY06 and will focus on the
areas of: (i) enhancing public sector accountability and efficiency; (ii) improving electricity and
gas sector services; (iii) improving the environment for private sector development; and (iv)
improving health and education and alleviating poverty and vulnerability. A set of performance
indicators drawn from the broader set of Government EDPRP outcome indicators will govern the
trigger mechanism for the PRSCs.




                                                  - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was generally satisfactory for both lending and supervision. Although the
operation was prepared on a fast track, the Bank held extensive dialogue with the Government
and other donors on key issues related to the design and components of the operation to ensure
consistency with the main objectives of the Government EDPRP and the broad ownership of the
operation, and coherence with the IMF's PRGF supported programs and other donors activities.
In addition to the IMF, preparation of the RSC was closely coordinated with other donors' work,
in particular USAID (budget/treasury management, governance, anti-corruption, private sector
development), UNDP (administrative/civil service reform, poverty monitoring), DFID
(expenditure management, governance), EBRD (investment promotion) as well as with the
private sector (Georgian Business Confederation, Association of Georgian Exporters, etc.) and
NGOs. The design and preparation of the RSC reflected the priorities and recommendations of
several economic and sector analytical works on various areas of reform including the 2003
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), the 2003 Trade Diagnostic Study, 2002
Public Expenditure Review (PER), and the 2002 Country Procurement Assessment (CPAR).

7.2 Supervision:
Although the RSC was a one tranche adjustment operation and all the agreed policy actions were
implemented prior to Board presentation, the Bank remained engaged in its dialogue throughout
in monitoring implementation of the follow-up actions, coordinating with other donors and
providing technical assistance. As an emergency operation to lay the ground work for the series
of programmatic adjustment operations, and given the Government low capacity for
implementations, it was essential that the Bank stayed involved to sustain progress towards
medium term program objectives.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower performance in the preparation of RSC is rated satisfactory. The new Government
of Georgia is enthusiastic and reform minded. They received strong endorsement from the
international community at a Donors meeting in June 2004 and welcomed the Bank's assistance as
they embarked in defining and launching their reform program.          The performance of the
Government is embedded in the full support and ownership of the operation that was
demonstrated during the preparation of the RSC. As the RSC was built around the pillars of
EDPRP, this in turn reflects the high degree of Government commitment to its medium-term



                                               - 13 -

growth and poverty reduction agenda. The Government participated actively in the design of the
operation and the development of recommended policy measures, and made every effort to ensure
compliance with the operations policy actions which were pre-requisite for Board presentation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall performance of the Government in implementation of the RSC is rated as
satisfactory. The assessment needs to take into account the short time span of implementation
for a number of the RSC measures. The improved fiscal revenues which allowed clearance of long
built arrears in wages and pensions, combined with strong anti-corruption measures implemented
by the Government, has substantially improved confidence of the public in the Government and
gained strong support for its reform agenda.        This in turn has empowered the committed
Government with the flexibility to speed up the pace of the reform. Overall, all conditions of
Board presentation were implemented successfully and majority of outcome indicators as listed in
the matrix of actions were achieved satisfactorily, as the Government has consistently pursued
further the reforms initiated by the RSC. The Government ownership of the program and the full
commitment to reform at the highest levels had substantial impact on the successful
implementation of the RSC.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) as the implementing agency performed a satisfactory role with
other ministries and government entities that were partners in the implementation of the RSC. In
particular, the role of the MOF in introducing a single treasury account, the amendments to the
BSL and developing the action plan for implementation of the new BSL, as well as in developing
the key principles and mechanisms for a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) is
commendable.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The successful implementation of the
RSC has laid the ground work for the first PRSC which is currently under preparation.

8. Lessons Learned

The principal lessons learned from the outcome of this operation include:

A committed government with clearly defined development objectives is the foundation for
the success of a medium term reform program. As in the RSC, the components of an operation
have to emerge from within the Government overall development strategy to create ownership
and recognize the extent of consensus among policy makers in moving the reform agenda
forward. Participation of the civil society and the overall level of public trust is an important
element for introducing radical reforms and successful implementation of its process.

A clear and well defined assignment of responsibility within government entities needs to
specified which would clearly and openly define the boundaries of responsibility and
accountability for the implementation of various parts of reform

Achieving objectives of a program require a well coordinated effort among donors, both in
terms of advice and activities so as to maximize synergies and improve cohesiveness;


                                               - 14 -

Government institutional and implementation capacity is a binding constraint for successful
development and implementation of each component of a reform program and key to ensure
sustainability of reforms.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from The Netherlands

Implementation completion report RSC Georgia (IDA-39370 TF-53931)

Overall: The analysis of the World Bank is in line with the perceptions of the Netherlands with
regard to the results and continuing reforms under the RSC.




                                               - 15 -

We would like to add (see bold) that under 3.1 Original strategy: "The objectives of the RSC
were built around priority needs of the EDPRP" and the Government Strategic vision and
urgent financing priorities 2004 2006 for the donor conference Brussels, 16-17 June 2004.

With regard to sustainability, we do agree with the analysis that the low capacity of the
government, due to still weak state structures, can be a constraint for further implementation of
the reforms.

Besides of that the Netherlands would like to stress that it encourage the Georgian government to
finalise the drafting of a comprehensive and well co-ordinated overall strategy, which could
function as a strong guideline for aligned future reforms and action plans (to be included with
benchmarks and indicators for monitoring purposes). Those benchmarks and indicators could of
course be part of the MTEF, which is presently under development.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
In addition to the IMF, preparation of the RSC was closely coordinated with other donors' work,
in particular USAID, UNDP, DFID, EBRD, and with the private sector (e.g., Georgian Business
Confederation and Association of Georgian Exporters) and NGOs.

10. Additional Information




                                                - 16 -

     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


     Actions Supported by the Reform Support Credit
     (Pre-Board Presentation Actions in Bold)




   Actions Taken by the Government                           Outcome/monitorible                         Current Status
                                                                     Indicators
I. Strengthening Governance/Anti-Corruption and
Public Sector Management

(a) Formulating, Implementing, and Monitoring an
Anti-Corruption Strategy                                 Improved functioning of Customs as      Adopted a new Customs System
                                                         reflected in periodic surveys.          Development Strategy with a new
Initial measures to reduce corruption in Customs and                                             regulation and structure of the
key public enterprises have been taken.                                                          Customs Department which entered
                                                                                                 into force in August 2004. As part of
                                                         Simplification of Customs               anti-corruption agenda, new law on
The Government upgraded the information                  requirements as evidenced by surveys    Customs Service is being drafted and
systems, through implementation of the ASYCUDA           and other monitoring mechanisms.        a customs data network is under
system (except for Adjara), to harmonize                                                         construction to automate system.
procedures and reduce the scope of personal
interface between customs officials and traders
which sometimes results in illegal practices.
      Law on Conflict of Interests in Public Service was                                         On going. Declarations are to be
      amended to provide for improved reporting and     Regular reporting of assets by high      submitted soon.
      validation of assets and income declared by high officials.
      level officials, and Bureau for Declaration of
      Assets and Income was shifted to the Ministry of
      Justice.




      The Government submitted to IDA a report on       Greater focus on preventive              President created a working group

      the government's actions so far taken             anti-corruption measures and coordinated including representatives from

      regarding anti-corruption, including the          government approach                      Anti-Corruption Policy

      identification of the mandates of core agencies,                                           Department (ACPD) and

      their roles and strategies and identification of  Upon preparation of the report, draft    members of civil society; the

      overlaps and gaps.                                anti-corruption strategy reflecting the  Group has initiated discussion
                                                        Government's report prepared and         with other departments and is
                                                        presented for public discussion          expected to finalize its strategy in
                                                                                                 June 2005.
                                                        Periodic reporting of performance
                                                        against anti-corruption indicators       Reporting continues. Further
                                                        prepared by the Government, including    progress would need capacity
                                                        recommendations for future action, and   building and will be closely
                                                        presented and disseminated to public     followed up under upcoming
                                                                                                 PRSC.




                                                                 - 17 -

    Actions Taken by the Government                           Outcome/monitorible                         Current Status
                                                                      Indicators
 (b) Improving Governance Through
 Administrative/Civil Service Reform

 The Parliament adopted a new Law on Structure,
 Functions and Responsibilities of the Government         Simplified and streamlined structure   Number of ministries reduced from
 providing for reduction of a number of line              of the Government, clear definition of 18 to 14 and 18 state departments
 ministries as well as consolidation of a large           responsibilities for Ministries and    were abolished and their functions
 number of previously semi-independent state              departments.                           assimilated under the relevant
 departments within the respective ministries.                                                   ministry.


 The Government completed restructuring of law
 enforcement ministries (including Ministry of Interior
 and the Ministry of State Security) to enhance their     Decriminalization of economy and       Complete re-shape of traffic police
 ability to address the problem of smuggling and to       improved business/ investment          force to reduce corruption and
 eliminate harassment practices that have been            environment.                           bribery. Approval of a draft law on
 damaging the investment environment.                                                            tax and financial amnesty and
                                                                                                 legalization of undeclared property
                                                                                                 and finances


                                                          Less smuggling as reflected by more    Tax and customs departments
                                                          tax collections.                       downsized and their structure
                                                                                                 optimized to combat tax evasion and
                                                                                                 smuggling. Tax collection increased
                                                                                                 by 64 % in one year alone.

Judicial reforms have accelerated (publication of         Less frequency of inspections to        No surveys yet conducted to
Supreme Court decisions and initiation of publishing      businesses as evidenced by surveys.     monitor the outcome.
decisions of other courts, elimination of the supervisory
power of prosecutors, training of Judges and court
employees, and measures to modernize Judiciary                                                    Courts are accessible to all users.
operations such as computerization).                      Improved functioning of the Judiciary   All court decision are being
                                                          with better access of public and        published and are available to
                                                          businesses to judicial information      general public. The development of
                                                                                                  an information system to link all
                                                                                                  courts is underway. The
                                                                                                  Association for Legal and Judicial
                                                                                                  Public Education (ALPE) has made
                                                                                                  many significant interventions in
                                                                                                  the promotion, education and
                                                                                                  dissemination of legal awareness.




                                                                  - 18 -

   Actions Taken by the Government                          Outcome/monitorible                         Current Status
                                                                     Indicators
Draft law providing for all public information on      Submission of Draft Law to Parliament. Law on Unified State Registry was
individuals and their property to be gathered into a                                           adopted in July 2004
single computerized database within the Ministry of
Justice has been submitted to Parliament.
                                                       Administrative entity(ies) with         A Civil Service Council (CSC) and a
The Government designated an administrative            responsibility and authority for reform Civil Service Bureau (CSB) were
agency with the responsibility of oversight and        oversight and implementation            legally established and mandated to
implementation of the civil service reform.            identified, legally established,        promote creation of an efficient
                                                       adequately staffed and operational      public service. Slow progress to date
                                                                                               on the development of guidelines for
                                                                                               civil service reform as CSB is not
                                                       Two pilot ministries (Ministries of     adequately staffed yet and there is
                                                       Health and Education) commenced with    not enough capacity to function
                                                       implementation of civil service reform  effectively. In regard to pilot
                                                       guidelines
                                                                                               ministries, only some limited action
                                                                                               has been taken in the Ministry of
                                                                                               Education, but not with support from
                                                                                               the CSB, as intended.

The Government implemented the new Law on              Revised ministry statutes submitted to
Structure, Functions and Responsibilities of the       Ministry of Justice                     The first round was completed. The
Government in accordance with the schedule.                                                    mandates of the line ministries are
                                                                                               being reviewed again in the context
                                                                                               of the State Minister led Governance
                                                                                               reform initiative.
The report by the Development and Reform Fund
on its first three months of operations was issued     Transparent operations of the Fund      Quarterly reports on operations of
                                                                                               Fund are being prepared, are audited,
(c) Improving Governance to Promote Private Sector                                             and are on the web-site.
Development

The Government developed a customs reform strategy     Increased Customs revenues; Improved    Customs revenues increased by 46
paper.                                                 transparency in dealing with Customs    percent between 2003 and 2004 as a
                                                       reflected in periodic surveys           result of restructuring of tax and
                                                                                               customs administration. MOF is
                                                                                               preparing new Custom Code.
                                                                                               Although no periodic surveys yet,
To facilitate the consolidation of the banking sector,                                         increased custom revenues is an
the National Bank approved a timetable to increase the                                         indication of improved transparency.
minimum capital requirements of commercial banks.


                                                       Balance sheets of banks to show         NBG issued the new minimum
                                                       increased capital (or capital above the Supervisory capital requirement - 12
                                                       minimum required ).                     million GEL, that on gradual basis
                                                                                               Commercial banks should comply by
                                                                                               2008 The requirement of capital
                                                                                               increase portion by end of 2004 was
                                                                                               fulfilled by all banks (6.4 million
                                                                                               GEL).




                                                                - 19 -

  Actions Taken by the Government                        Outcome/monitorible                         Current Status
                                                                 Indicators
The Government established a cross-ministerial       Increased private sector participation  The Commission was established in
commission, including representatives of the         in policy making and enhanced           2004 under leadership of former
private sector and supported by a technical          awareness of policy agenda that         Prime Minister. This commission
secretariat, with the mandate to promote             affects private sector as evidenced by  has never functioned. Currently
improvements in the business environment.            surveys.                                some activities are performed by
                                                                                             National Investment Agency under
                                                                                             MOE. The Foreign Investment
                                                                                             Advisory council was recently
                                                                                             established under the Parliament.

                                                                                            In collaboration with IFC and FIAS,
                                                                                            Government plans to have workshop
                                                                                            in early June 2005 on Business/
                                                                                            Investment climate improvements.


The Government organized periodic commission
meetings for developing a new action plan for                                                According to survey of "Doing

removing administrative barriers to investment based Reduced costs for establishing          Business in 2005" the time and cost

on the results of FIAS/Government Assessment of      and operating business in               of registering a new business is

Administrative Procedures for Doing Business in      Georgia as evidenced by                 reduced, minimum capital

Georgia                                              surveys.                                requirements are lowered, and
                                                                                             property registration takes less
                                                                                             time. The number of licenses are to
                                                                                             be reduced from 909 to 150 and the
                                                                                             new legislative initiative is being
                                                                                             proposed to introduce a so called
                                                                                             `one stop' principle.



The Government issued orders eliminating the                                                 Transit traffic has increased in 2004

requirements for (i) the internal transit document                                           compared with 2003.

and (ii) non-excise consignment to travel in convoy  Increased transit traffic and
(except for vehicles that are unsecured).            related economic activity (data
                                                     available from Border Control).

                                                                                             Border crossing and clearance
                                                                                             processing time have been reduced.
                                                     Reduced processing time at border
                                                     crossings and clearance facilities
                                                     (information available from Customs).




                                                             - 20 -

   Actions Taken by the Government                           Outcome/monitorible                       Current Status
                                                                    Indicators
II. Improving Public Finance Management and
Financial Accountability

(a) Public Expenditure Management

The Government has started implementation of the
fiscal stabilization package of measures as a first step Tax collections improved, pensions   There was an unprecedented increase
towards arrears reduction                                and salaries paid on time, arrears   of 64 percent in tax collection in
                                                         reduced.                             just one year, which permitted a
                                                                                              sizable reduction in domestic wage
                                                                                              and pension arrears.
Some tax responsibilities have been transferred to
regions                                                  Increased amount of land taxes       Local government have authority to
.                                                        collected by local offices.          impose land tax, but collection and
                                                                                              administration remain the
                                                                                              responsibilities of central
                                                                                              government. As only a few local
                                                                                              governments currently exercise this
Reports on progress in budget implementation are                                              new responsibility, no increase in
submitted to Parliament on quarterly basis.                                                   land tax collection detected yet.

                                                         Commission of Finance of Parliament Ongoing
                                                         receives quarterly budget progress
Single Treasury Account has been established and is      reports and comments on them.
operating.


                                                         Improved fiscal transparency/        Fiscal transparency has improved.
The Government prepared an action plan,                  accountability.
acceptable to IDA, for implementing reforms in the
Budget Systems Law.

                                                         2005 Budget presented to Parliament  Draft 2005 budget has been prepared
                                                         by October 1st, 2004 (as per the     on time as per BSL. Given the low
                                                         Budget Systems Law): with            institutional and technical capacity, it
                                                         description of EDPRP-budget links in was not feasible to reflect the close
                                                         annual budget; with EDPRP priorities link between budget and EDPRP
                                                         adequately reflected in the 2005     priorities in time in 2005 budget.
                                                         Budget (in particular in Health and  There has been progress towards a
                                                         Education); incorporating initial    medium term fiscal framework and a
                                                         attempt at medium-term fiscal        EDPRP-budget link which will be
                                                         framework, and with specific         reflected in 2006 budget.
                                                         reference to commitments to budget
                                                         ceilings.




                                                                 - 21 -

    Actions Taken by the Government                           Outcome/monitorible                        Current Status
                                                                      Indicators
 The Government formed a working group co-chaired        EDPRP-budget working group formed      Working group was formed and later
 by the Ministries of Finance and Economy for, inter     and regular meetings held.             subsumed under the MTEF working
 alia, establishing processes to link the EDPRP to the                                          group to ensure a closer link between
 budget through budgetary ceilings and activity                                                 the budget process and the EDPRP;
 classifications.                                                                               meetings are taking place.

                                                                                                There has been greater EDPRP
                                                         Greater EDPRP content in the 2005      content in 2005 budget process. The
                                                         budget process, as evidenced in the    recent Budget Data and Directions
                                                         initial budget strategy statement and  (BDD) for 2006 budget is reflective
                                                         described in Appendix to 2005 budget   of a much more strategically
                                                         document.                              prepared budget.
 (b) Financial Accountability

 The number of procuring entities was reduced from an Procurement offices reduced and            Number of procuring entities was
 initial 8000 to 3000 and permanent procurement units    specialized. Accreditation of           reduced and most of them have
 were introduced as part of the structure within each    procurement officers is underway.       special procurement division
 procuring entity. A system to accredit procurement                                              established. Training is being
 officers has been developed in consultations with the                                           provided to the procurement
 Ministry of Education.                                                                          officers, but due to high turnover
                                                                                                 among the civil servants, demand
                                                                                                 still exceeds supply. Accreditation
                                                                                                 of procurement officers not started
                                                                                                 yet.
 The Government adopted amendments on
 Administrative Violations Code to make
 procurement fraud punishable.
                                                         Law enforcement agencies and general    In process. A number of cases
                                                         attorney acting on alleged procurement  (involving officials both at central
 Draft Law on Inspector General has been prepared.       frauds.                                 and local levels) were investigated
                                                                                                 and respective measures taken.

 Law on Financial Police has been passed and
 Financial Police is operating.                          Draft sent to Parliament for            Deliberations of the draft law are
                                                         consideration.                          pending.
The Government is auditing the accounts of three major
state enterprises 쵹OEs-(Georgian Railways, Poti Port, Increased public revenues.                Government revenues increased
and Madneuli Mining Company). The audit reports are                                              substantially from 16 percent of
expected be certified by end-July 2004 and published                                             GDP in 2003 to 22 percent in 2004.
within one month of their completion. Based on the
experience gained, the coverage of international audits
is expected to be broadened to the ten largest SOEs. All Audits underway;                        Audits underway, although new
SOEs with a turnover of 100,000 GEL and above have       State Enterprise Management Agency      deadline of July 2005 could not be
been instructed to initiate their audit procedures.      (SEMA) takes actions based on the       met and expected to be completed
                                                         result of audits.                       by September 2005. The coverage
                                                                                                 of international audits extended to
                                                                                                 11 large enterprises.




                                                                   - 22 -

   Actions Taken by the Government                            Outcome/monitorible                         Current Status
                                                                      Indicators
The reorganization of the State Enterprise              Program for privatization and/or          Program for privatization exists
Management Agency (SEMA) has started. The aim of management of SOEs designed                      only for Madneuli mining company
the reorganization is to strengthen the SEMA to                                                   and Electrokavshiri.
develop and implement state policy for SOE
management and privatization.                                                                     The reorganization of SEMA was
                                                                                                  completed by January 2005.

The Government launched the State Procurement                                                     Web-site was developed and
Agency website and improved the format and               Government procurement website           information is published, but there
content of the procurement-related information           operational, with relevant information   are concerns on the completeness of
and published on website to make it more user            published.                               the published information.
friendly and complete, and started publishing
tender announcements for procurements by the
central state entities.


                                                                                                  Total of 429 open tenders were
                                                         All open-tender announcements from       announced on the SPA website
                                                         central government entities are          since January, 2005, of which
                                                         announced on Government                  almost 50% are central government
                                                         procurement website.                     announcements.

      III. Taking Steps to Resolve Critical Issues of
      the Energy Sector

      Nine unregistered refineries were closed recently Reduction in tax evasion. Better         Progress was made in stronger
      and the government launched tax investigations    governance in energy sector evidenced by enforcement of utility collections
      on eight registered refineries.                   surveys.                                 and thus reducing quasi fiscal
                                                                                                 losses.

      The Government submitted a time-bound
      action plan for electricity satisfactory to IDA   Improved financial situation of the power
      and adopted a legislation to address insolvency companies leading to better services       The 2004 energy sector strategic
      problems of electricity utilities.                (e.g., increased bill collections, more  Action Plan for 2004-05 was
                                                        stable services).                        prepared. Payment collections
                                                                                                 from end consumers outside
                                                                                                 Tbilisi increased. However, since
                                                                                                 a large share of the sector
                                                                                                 revenues was used to finance
                                                                                                 electricity imports, the funds flow
                                                                                                 from power distribution to power
                                                                                                 transmission and hydropower
                                                                                                 generation was not significantly
                                                                                                 improved.




                                                                  - 23 -

   Actions Taken by the Government                       Outcome/monitorible                      Current Status
                                                                 Indicators

IV. Protecting the Vulnerable

The Government has started the design of a basic      Increased poverty focus of health    Draft of the revised basic health
health benefit package.                               expenditures.                        benefit package to meet the priority
                                                                                           public health goals and provide
                                                                                           financial protection to the
                                                                                           population is developed and ready
                                                                                           to be submitted to the Ministerial
                                                                                           Board for discussion.


Institutional realignment of EDPRP into the Ministry  Greater connection between the       Ongoing and will be further
of Economy was underway.                              EDPRP, indicative plans and budgets. strengthened under the upcoming
                                                                                           PRSC.




                                                             - 24 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                            Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million       US$ million
  BOP/Budget Support                                          24.00              24.00               100


  Total Baseline Cost                                         24.00              24.00
    Physical Contingencies                                                                           100
                          Total Project Costs                 24.00              24.00
                    Total Financing Required                  24.00              24.00




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
     Component                Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          IDA       Govt.       CoF.      IDA       Govt.      CoF.     IDA    Govt.   CoF.
BOP/Budget Support        24.00                          24.00                 3.60     100.0




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                                No. of Persons and Specialty                           Performance Rating
                                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)                  Implementation Development
                      Month/Year           Count                Specialty                                 Progress        Objective

 Identification/Preparation
                03/29/2004                            16      1 Task Team Leader, 1                           S              S
                                                              Anti-Corruption Spec., 1 Energy
                                                              Sector Spec., 2 Admin/Civil
                                                              Service Reform Spec., 2
                                                              Procurement Spec., 1 Private
                                                              Sec. Dev. Spec., 1 Investment
                                                              Climate Spec., 3 Consultants, 4
                                                              Social Protection, Pension
                                                              Reform and Poverty Monitoring
                                                              Spec.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                05/09/2004                              9     1 Task Team Leader, 1                           S              S
                                                              Anti-Corruption Spec., 1
                                                              Energy Sector Spec., 2
                                                              Admin/Civil Service Reform
                                                              Spec., 1 Private Sector Dev.
                                                              Spec., 1 Lawyer, 2
                                                              Consultants

 Supervision
                02/28/2005                              1     1 Economist                                     S              S


 ICR
                02/28/2005                              1       1 Economist                                   S              S

There was no supervision mission for this operation and the information listed here reflects the mission date
and rating of the ICR.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                  No. Staff weeks                        US$ ('000)
   Identification/Preparation                            37.07                              197,759
   Appraisal/Negotiation                                 23.05                              158,655
   Supervision
   ICR                                                    6.71                                25,862
   Total                                                 66.83                              382,276
It should be noted that part of the cost reported under "Identification/Preparation" stage reflects resources spent during
preparation of SAC4 - an earlier proposed policy-based operation whose preparation was suspended prior to the Rose
revolution.




                                                               - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Not applicable.
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Not applicable




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Program Document for a Proposed Reform Support Credit in the Amount of SDR 16.6 million (US$ 24
million equivalent) to Georgia, May 27, 2004.
 2. Development Credit Agreement (Reform Support Credit) between Georgia and International
Development Association, July 1, 2004.
3. Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Program (EDPRP) Progress Report, Government of
Georgia, February 2005.
4. Draft Concept Note for a Proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit to Georgia, January 2005.
5. Georgia-First Review Under the Three-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility, IMF, December 6, 2004.




                                                - 30 -

- 31 -

