Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3937 GE 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Reform Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 1, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3937 GE 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 2004, between Georgia (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS  (A)  the  Association  has  received  from  the  Borrower  a  letter  dated              
May 21, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies for the reform of the 
Borrower’s public sector management, improvement of governance, and public expenditure 
management (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in     
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter 
provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 
1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) 
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and  
 
(b)  
Development and Reform Fund means the Fund set up by according to the 
provisions of the Law No. 3255-RS dated January 14, 2004. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights        
(SDR 16,600,000). 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account 
in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Dollar on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of     
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2014 and ending May 15, 
2044. Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2024 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), 
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination  
 
Section 5.01 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
70 Irakli Abashidze Str. 
 
380062 Tbilisi 
 
Georgia 
 
Telex:  
 
212-348-MOFIN  
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
  48423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
145 (MCI) 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
GEORGIA 
 
By: /s/ Zurab Nogaideli 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Van Roy Southworth   
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanufactured, 
 
 
tobacco refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 containing 
 
 
tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious stones,  
 
unworked or worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts  
 
thereof; fuel elements  
 
(cartridges), non-irradiated,  
Page  10
-
9
-
for nuclear reactors 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or  
 
platinum group metals  
 
(except  
watches  and 
watch  
 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ wares  
 
(including set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party);  
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B)  
of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1. 
Submission to the Association of a report on the government’s actions so far 
taken regarding anti-corruption, including the identification of the mandates of core 
agencies, their roles and strategies and identification of overlaps and gaps. 
 
2. 
Designation by the Borrower of an administrative agency with the responsibility of 
oversight and  implementation of the civil service reform. 
 
3. 
Issuance by the Development and Reform Fund of the report on its first three months of 
operations. 
 
4. 
Establishment of a cross-ministerial commission, including representatives of the private 
sector and supported by a technical secretariat, with the mandate to promote improvements in the 
business environment. 
 
5. 
Preparation of an action plan by the Borrower, acceptable to the Association, for 
implementing reforms in the Budget Systems Law.  
 
6. 
Issuance by the Customs Department of the Borrower of orders eliminating requirements 
for: (i)  the internal transit document; and (ii) the non-excise consignment to travel in convoy. 
 
7. 
Submission by the Borrower of a time-bound action plan for electricity, satisfactory to 
the Association, and adoption of legislation to address insolvency of electricity utilities. 
 
 
8.    
Implementation by the Borrower of the Automated Systems for Customs Data 
(ASYCUDA). 
 
9. 
Adoption by the Borrower of a new Law on Structure, Functions and Responsibilities of 
the Government. 
 
10. 
Adoption of amendments by the Borrower of the Administrative Violations 
Code to make procurement fraud punishable. 
 
