                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                      03 March 2012
                                                Report No.: AB7008
                                               (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                      Economic Recovery and Gov. Credit 5
Region                              AFRICA
Country                             Togo
Sector                              PREM - Central government administration (50%); Crops
                                    (20%);Energy efficiency in power sector (20%);Other
                                    Mining and Extractive Industries (10%)
Operation ID                        P126897
Lending Instrument                  Development Policy Lending. IDA Credit to the amount of
                                    US$14 million equivalent; standard IDA terms: 40-year
                                    maturity with a 10-year grace period; single tranche
Borrower(s)                         GOVERNMENT OF TOGO
Implementing Agency                 The Ministry of Economy and Finance
                                    Ministry of Economy and Finance
                                    Togo

Date PID Prepared                   March3, 12, 2012
Estimated Date of Appraisal         March 13, 2012
Estimated Date of Board             May 24, 2012
Approval
Corporate Review Decision           Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the preparation of the operation.
Other Decision {Optional}           Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no
                                    other decisions are added

I.      Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
In August 2006, after more than a decade of isolation due to political instability and the
withdrawal of donor support, Togo saw itself confronted with low per capita incomes (GNI of
380 per capita in 2006), high rates of poverty (62%) mounting arrears, a dire financial situation
of state-owned enterprises operating in cotton and phosphate and an excessive share of
nonperforming loans in the banking sector. Change came with the signing of the Global Political
Accord between the main political parties. This laid the basis for parliamentary elections in 2007.
Since that time much has improved. President Faure Gnassingbé was re-elected in March 2010 in
elections that were deemed free and transparent, donor agencies returned, the country reached
the HIPC Completion point in December 2010 and qualified for additional debt relief under the
MDRI. In July 2011 the Government completed the ECF supported program with the IMF in a
generally satisfactory manner.

Togo is committed to a broad based reform program that aims to improve the welfare of those
living in Togo. One important element to this end is improving the quality of public service
delivery, which in turn requires robust public financial management (PFM) system. Not
surprisingly, an ambitious PFM reform agenda has been pursued over the past three years. These
reforms are guided by WAEMU directives stipulating that by 2017 all WAEMU countries
should have adopted program budgeting with MTEF frameworks. Reforms encompass budget
preparation, execution, controls and public procurement and are reflected in the 2010 public
financial management strategy and its action plan for 2011-2013. Recent reforms include the
preparation of legal acts to transpose the WAEMU directives into national law, the publication of
quarterly budget execution reports, the utilization of an automated system to produce annual
budget execution accounts (SIGFIP), setting up of oversight bodies such as the Court of
Accounts and the creation of a procurement website and the regular publication of a procurement
news letter.

Structural reforms are equally being pursued. Reforms in the cotton sector were initiated with a
strategic audit of the sector, two financial audits of the former state-owned cotton company, the
establishment of a new cotton company (in which farmer representatives hold 40% of the
capital), the clearance of the cotton company’s arrears to farmers, the introduction of internal
controls, the adoption of a cotton price mechanism linking farm gate prices to world market
prices and training of farmer leaders towards a better participation within the NSCT board. In the
phosphate sector, a strategic audit was conducted, followed by the preparation of a three-year-
business plan, the adoption of a phosphate sector strategy in 2010, and the granting of the EITI
candidate status in October 2010. In telecommunications a new sector policy was adopted in
May 2011 while in the electricity sector generating capacity was expanded, a Board of Directors
for the electricity utility company, CEET, was established, new statutes harmonized with
WAEMU corporate law have been adopted, a five-year contract between CEET and the
government has been signed, and a utility tariff adjustment mechanism was adopted in 2010.
Much progress has been made clearing up arrears to the private sector and in the banking sector
bad debts of state owned banks were put in a special recovery vehicle and four ailing state-
owned banks were recapitalized. These banks are now are put up for privatization.

These policies start to pay off. GDP growth is projected to attain 4.1 percent in 2011, compared
to 4 percent in 2010. Growth rates started to increase in 2009 after two years in which growth
was depressed due to flood damage and surges in international oil and food prices. Growth in
2011 is expected to be highest in the manufacturing sector fuelled by an increase of phosphate
and clinker production (4.8 percent, y-o-y). In the primary sector, growth (4 percent, y-o-y) has
mainly been driven by a rebound in cotton production and, to a lesser degree, by cocoa
production. Evidence of the impact on poverty is not available, but as per capita growth rates
have been (slightly) positive in the recent past, a modest decline in poverty is expected. New
poverty estimates based on a household survey fielded in July 2011 are expected to be released
by January 2012.

II.    Operation Objectives
       The objective of the proposed credit is to support Government-owned reforms to improve
       public financial management as well as structural reforms in cotton, energy,
       telecommunications and banking.

       Despite significant progress made to date, Togo’s institutions of economic and financial
       management remain fragile and require further efforts to lay the foundation for sustained
       and inclusive growth. The ERGC-5 builds on the Government’s own reform program as
       reflected in the PRSP-1 and the Plan of Priority Actions (PAP). It puts emphasis on
       strengthened public financial managed and, in the real sector of the economy, enhanced
       economic efficiency and competitiveness. The proposed credit will support (i) a
       deepening of the implementation of PFM reforms; (ii) strengthening the cotton sector
       through measures that improve insight in the cost structure of the cotton company
       (NSCT) and lay the foundation for attracting private investors; (iii) improved
       management of the electricity company; (iv) providing a clear path towards a competitive
       telecommunications sector; and (v) privatizing four state owned banks thereby generating
       revenue for the government and (vi) putting the banking sector on a more solid footing.
       In this way, the proposed credit expects to help improve public sector management and to
       improve economic competitiveness.

       By the time the proposed credit closes, December 2012, it is expected that (i) budget
       information is easily accessible through the togoreform.com website; (ii) procurement
       processes have been simplified (iii) cotton farmers are being paid a predetermined share
       of the world market price in accordance with a revised price formula; (iv) the cost of
       mobile telephony in Togo has reduced; (v) four state own banks have been privatized and
       (vi) access to electricity in Togo has improved.

III.   Preliminary Description
Provided the country maintains a solid macro-economic framework the proposed credit will
support reforms in public financial management and in four sectors of the real economy (cotton,
banking, telecommunications and electricity).

In public financial management, the proposed credit supports policy actions which will
enhance incentives to implement the budget reform program as identified in the Government’s
medium term Action Plan. The actions focus on measures that enhance budget transparency and
increase internal and external controls. In particular, the prior actions focus on: (i) enhancing
transparency around budget processes by making the approved budgets publicly available; (ii);
enhancing; (ii) building technical expertise on identifying budget processes which are prone to
public resource mismanagement; (iii) strengthen external auditing of public institutions and
public enterprises; and (iv) strengthen procurement and procurement conformity controls.

The PFM related prior actions are the following:

   (i) The Recipient has disclosed to the public, by publication in PDF format on its
          togoreforme.com website, the Budgets for the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 fiscal
          years, and has furnished, on the same website, an email address through which the
          excel version of any of mentioned Budgets can be requested by the public.

   (ii) IGE and IGF have adopted a risk-based approach to the selection of controls carried out
           by their staff.

   (iii)The Court of Accounts has submitted its report on the execution of the Budget for the
           2007 fiscal year to the Recipient’s parliament.
   (iv) The Procurement Regulatory Authority has prepared standardized bidding documents for
           supply, work and consultants.

   (v) To assess their conformity with prevailing law, the Procurement Regulatory Authority
          has undertaken conformity audits of the 2010 procurement contracts issued by (i) the
          Recipient’s ministries responsible for (a) health, (b) agriculture, (c) education (3), (d)
          public works, and (e) water and sanitation); (ii) seven t pre-identified companies,
          namely Togotélécom, NSCT, LONATO, CEET, TdE, SALT and PAL; and (iii) the
          city of Lomé.

In the cotton sector, the Government seeks the entry of private capital in NSCT as private
sector participation is believed to be critical to a well functioning and expanding sector that
contributes significantly to the country’s exports and which offers households, particularly those
in northern and central Togo were poverty incidence is highest, the opportunity to earn (cash)
income.

Already in October 2008 the decision was taken to seek private investments in NSCT and to
reduce the role of the state to that of a minority share holder. The Governments strategy to date
has been to first bring NSCT to financial health before privatizing. This objective has been
largely achieved, and as cotton production is expanding rapidly the time to privatize is drawing
nearer. But before launching the privatization process, additional preparatory work needs to be
undertaken. The proposed credit contributes to this with a policy action that increases
transparency and will facilitate collaboration between representatives of the state and of cotton
producers in the NSCT Board. This policy action will help NSCT’s management gain insight in
the cost per season (or per ton produced) as opposed to per fiscal year which can be compared
with similar costs produced for other countries. The production of such a cost table for the
2010/2011 season will also allow producers to assess the acceptability of the final price offered
by NSCT for cotton produced during the exceptional 2010/2011 season (during which the price
formula which should normally be used to determine the cotton price for farmers, could not be
followed).

The cotton related prior action is the following:

   (vi) NSCT has submitted to FNGPC a cost table for the 2010/2011 cotton production season
          presenting a cost breakdown that is in conformity with NSCT’s accounting records.

In the energy sector the energy company, CEET, has taken important steps to improve its
management capacity. In March 2008, new management structures were established, a Board of
Directors and General Manager were appointed, and regulations governing CEET were adopted
consistent with those of the Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa
(OHADA). However, following a negative assessment by the Supervisory Board of the progress
made in implementing the Action Plan and reducing energy losses in February 2009, the position
of General Manager has been vacant. The Deputy General Manager fills the position in the
interim, but this situation is not encouraging strategic decision-making. To overhaul the CEET
management an organizational audit was commissioned, but the audit report has not been
finalized yet. While waiting for the audit’s recommendations, the CEET Board opened a
competitive process for the recruitment of a General Manager. The proposed ERGC-5 supports
one policy action judged critical to improving governance of the energy distribution utility. It
supports the CEET Board of Directors to replace the current interim manager.

The energy sector related prior action is the following:

   (vii)   The board of directors of CEET has appointed a general manager of the said company
           based on an open competitive selection process and a performance management
           contract.

In the telecommunication sector which is characterized by a mono (oligo) polistic market
conditions, the long term objective is to create a competitive sector with multiple players in line
with the Sectoral Strategy on Promoting Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)
adopted in May 2011. A competitive telecom sector is believed to reduce transaction costs, to
enhance access to information and essential services (such a mobile savings) and to improve the
business environment.

While working towards the objective of a competitive sector, the Government pursues the dual
objective of safeguarding a profitable parastatal company (Togo Telecom) and creating a
competitive sector. Current proposals included in the updated telecom strategy include setting
price caps and strict performance criteria during an interim period during which the incumbent
operator strengthens its operations, followed by opening up the sector to other operators.
Regarding the expansion of high-speed internet services at competitive prices to a large share of
the population, the short-term strategy is to increase the number of Internet Service Providers
(ISPs) and to ensure free access for all operators to the sub-marine WACS cable through
regulation. The regulatory authority (ARTP) will ensure the application of clear technical
specifications and tariffs for access to the sub-marine cable to create a level-playing field in the
market. The policy action judged a critical step towards a competitive mobile telephone sector,
as it increases transparency on the government’s approach to opening the telecom market to
competition.

The telecommunications related prior action is the following:

   (viii) The Recipient, through its ministry responsible for telecommunications, has
          submitted to the Recipient’s Council of Ministers, and agreed on with the Council of
          Ministers, an updated strategy that includes a clear set of reforms leading to a
          competitive information and communications technology market.

In the banking sector the Government’s medium-term financial sector reform program aims to
finalize the restructuring of all banks in difficulty and to disengage the state from direct
involvement in banking, with the ultimate objective of creating a more conducive business
environment. The privatization of the four state-owned banks is underway. The recruitment of
the privatization advisers for the four banks was launched early 2010 and a Privatization Law
was adopted in October 2010 following which a Privatization Committee was set up in early
2011. This cleared the way for the privatization of the four banks. A call for prequalification of
strategic investors was launched in early July 2011, bids were reviewed in September and
October 2011 and the Council of Ministers finally announced the privatization strategy on
November 2011. On November 30th the first two banks were put up on offer; early March the
other two banks have been put on offer.

The banking sector related prior action is the following:

   (ix) Following the call for expression of interests, the Privatization Commission has launched
            the call for bids for the privatization of the four state-owned banks.

IV.    Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
ERGC-5’s contribution to poverty reduction is expected to happen through its positive impact
on income and income distribution. Specifically, expected benefits include:

   (i)                 contributing to overall economic growth and hence income generation;
   (ii)                  strengthening of public expenditure management, which will enhance
           efficiency, transparency and accountability in public resource use, including in the
           social sectors;
   (iii)               strengthening governance in the cotton sector through measures that
           improve the accounting system of NSCT and which provide essential information to
           cotton producers to determine the fairness of the price offered;
   (iv)                providing a clear path towards a competitive telecommunications sector,
           thereby improving the business environment and providing poor households with cheap
           mobile communication tools as well as other products such as mobile savings accounts;
   (v)                 privatizing four state owned banks thereby generating revenue for
           government while putting the banking sector on a more sustainable footing and
           enhancing access to credit by the private sector; and
   (vi)                contributing to improved management at the CEET and helping to create a
           conducive business environment.
While the ERGC-5 does not have a special focus on rural poverty, it supports measures that will
be particularly beneficial to the rural poor. In the cotton sector, improving governance is
expected to further increase confidence of farmers and thereby facilitate a rebound in cotton
production and improve the livelihood of a large segment of the population. Indeed, about
300,000 people rely on this cash crop as a dominant source of earnings. Enhancing the
management of CEET will allow for the stepping up of electricity distribution with positive
impacts on the poor population’s health and security (replaces use of kerosene lamps for lighting,
facilitates operations of health clinics including storage of medicines, and provides public
lighting in urban and semi-urban areas). Strengthening the financial sector, in conjunction with
reforms in the telecommunications sector is expected to benefit small and medium enterprises
gaining access to means for savings as a stepping stone towards gaining access to credit while
increasing access to relevant market information and reducing transaction costs. Furthermore, as
a budget support operation, the ERGC-5 would help fund the provision of basic public services
with a beneficial impact on the poor.

Given the overall thrust of the ERGC-5, no negative impacts on vulnerable groups are envisaged.
On the contrary, all the measures considered should result in improved overall well-being
because of better governance, more efficient and equitable Government services and enhanced
economic growth.

V.     Environmental aspects

The reforms supported by the proposed development policy credit are not expected to have
significant effects on the environment, forest or other natural resources. The prior actions are
focused on increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of the government’s current strategy and
policy, not changing the policy directions or supporting any investments, and thus even at the
sectoral level, the prior actions are not likely to have significant negative impacts on the
country’s environment and natural resources:
         (i) as regards the cotton sector, this policy action helps improve NSCT’s
         management by providing cost estimates per season (as opposed to per fiscal year). The
         production of such a cost table for the 2010/2011 season allows the producer
         representatives in the FNGPC assessing the acceptability of the final price offered by
         NSCT for cotton produced during the exceptional 2010/2011 season.

         (ii) as regards the energy sector, the appointment of the General Manager for the
         CEET is expected to improve the company management, including the environmental
         aspects related to electricity production and distribution such as reduced transmission
         losses.

         (iii) as regards the telecommunications sector, the action plan on opening the ICT
         market to competition will improve the business environment and facilitate improved
         private sector performance.

         (iv) as regards the banking sector, the privatization of the four state-owned banks
         would restore good governance; efficient management according to commercial
         principles and would provide new capital and managerial expertise conducive to
         increased credit to private sector.


VI.    Tentative financing
Source:                                                                            ($m.)

IBRD                                                                                14
Others (specify)                                                                      0
                                                                    Total           14

VII. Contact point
World Bank
Contact:   Johannes Hoogeveen
Title:     Senior Economist
Tel:       +1 202-473 1669
Email:     jhoogeveen@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact:     Dr. Mongo Aharh-Kpessou
Title:       Secrétaire d’Etat / SP-PRPF
Tel:         +228 221 54 44
Email:       maharh59@yahoo.fr

VIII. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
