DoCMflKTS
CREDIT NUMBER 5120-TG
Financing Agreement
(Fifth Economic Recovery and Governance Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated 15 JUIN 2012  ,2012


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 5120-TG
FINANCING AGREEMENT
Agreement dated   1 5   JUIN 2012      , 2012, entered into between REPUBLIC
OF TOGO ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
("Association") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and the
Association therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02,  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- FINANCING
2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to nine million one
hundred thousand Special Driwing Rights (SDR 9,100,000) (variously, "Credit" and
"Financing").
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2,03. The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
2.04. The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.05,  The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
-1-


﻿ARTICLE III- PROGRAM
3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end:
(a)    the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework and
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the
Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-2-


﻿ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01,  The Recipient's Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.
6.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Immeuble CASEF
B.P. 387
Lom6
Togo
Facsimile:
228 2221 0905
6.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS              248423(MCI)         1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
-3-


﻿AGREED at \- 019               ,     O     O        as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TO              \,UE     0
By
Authorized Rep
Name:
Title:
INTERNAT >NAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Au;:horized  presentative
Name           T
Title
-4-


﻿SCHEDULE I
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds
Section I.   Actions under the Pr2gram
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
1.     The Recipient has published on its website, the Budgets for the Fiscal Years
2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and has furnished, on the same website, an email
address through which. an excel version of any of said Budgets can be requested
by the public.
2.     Each of the State Finance Inspectorate and the General Finance Inspectorate has
adopted an appropriate risk-based approach to the selection of public entities to
be inspected by it.
3.     The Court of Accounts has furnished to the Recipient's parliament its report on
the execution of the Budget for the Fiscal Year 2007,
4.     The Procurement Regulatory Authority has prepared standardized bidding
documents acceptable to the Association for the procurement of supplies, works
and consultants.
5.     The Procurement Regulatory Authority has, to assess their conformity with the
Recipient's procurement laws, undertaken audits of procurement contracts issued
during the respective fiscal year 2010 by: (a) the Recipient's ministries
responsible for (i) he.lth, (ii) agriculture, (iii) education, (iv) public works, and
(v) water and sanitation; (b) seven state-owned companies, namely Togot6l6com,
NSCT, LONATO, CEBT, TdE, SALT and PAL; and (c) the city of Lom6.
6,     NSCT has furnished .o FNGPC a table for the 2010/2011 Production Season,
presenting an accurate breakdown of its cost of producing cotton, in conformity
with its financial statements.
7.     The board of directors of CEET has appointed a general manager of the said
company based on an open competitive selection process and has signed a
performance management contract with said manager.
8.     The   Recipient's  Council  of  Ministers  has  adopted  an  updated
telecommunications strategy designed to develop a competitive information and
communications technology market.
9.     The Privatization Commission has invited pre-qualified applicants to bid on the
purchase of four state-owned banks, namely BIA-T, BTCI, BTD and UTB.
-5-


﻿Section IL    Availability of Financing Proceeds
A.     General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may
specify by notice to the Recipient,
B.     Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
allocation of the amount of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations                Amount of the Financing Allocated
(expressed in SDR)
Single Withdrawal Tranche                       9,100,000
TOTAL AMOUNT                                    9,100,000
C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried
out by the Recipient, and (b) with the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
framework.
D.     Deposits of Financing Amonits. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:
1.     all withdrawals from  the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
Association into an a:count designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the
Association; and
2.    the Recipient shall emure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.
E.     Audit. Upon the Association's request, the Recipient shall:
1.     have the account referred to in Part D.1 of this Section II audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, such audit to cover the
accounting of the amount referred to in Part D.2 of this Section II;
2.    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the date of the Association's request for such audit, a certified copy
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably requ.st, and make such report publicly available in a timely
fashion and in a mann-r acceptable to the Association; and
3.     furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account
and audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
-6-


﻿F.     Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the
Association upon such request shall be cancelled,
G.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.
-7-


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due                     Principal Amount of the Credit
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)*
On each March I and September 1:
commencing September 1, 2022 to and including                    1%
March 1, 2032
commencing September 1, 2032 to and including                   2%
March 1, 2052
* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid,
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General
Conditions.
-8-


﻿APPENDIX
Section L Definitions
1.    "BIA-T" means the Recipient'; state-owned bank known as "Banque Internationale pour
I'Afrique au Togo", established and operating under the laws of the Recipient.
2.     "BTCI" means the Recipient's state-owned bank known as "Banque Togolaise pour le
Commerce et l'Industrie", estallished and operating under the laws of the Recipient.
3.     "BTD" means the Recipient's state-owned bank known as "Banque Togolaise de
Ddveloppement", established aid operating under the laws of the Recipient.
4.     "Budget" means the Recipient's budget for a certain Fiscal Year, as reflected in a finance
act adopted by the Recipient's parliament for that Fiscal Year.
5.     "CEET" means the Recipient's state-owned power company known as "Compagnie
Energie Electrique du Togo", established and operating under the laws of the Recipient
6.     "Court of Accounts" means the Recipient's court known as "Cour des Comptes",
established and operating under the laws ofthe Recipient.
7.     "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;
(b)    for goods included il the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev,3 (1986) (the STTC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Asscciation by notice to the Recipient:
-9-


﻿Group          Sub-group            Description of Item
112                                Alcoholic beverages
121                                Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122                                Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                                 Radioactive and associated
materials
667                                 Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718            718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728            728.43               Tobacco processing
machinery
897            897.3               Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
-wares (including set gems)
971                                 Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
,                             concentrates)
(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
the Recipient is a party;
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VIT of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
the Association to address such practices when they occur.
8.     "Fiscal Year" means the Recipient's fiscal year, which commences on January 1 and ends
on December 31 of the same year. "Fiscal Years" means more than one such Fiscal Year,
-10-


﻿9.     "FNGPC" means the national federation of cotton producers, known as "Fdddration
Nationale des Groupements d. Producteurs de Coton", established and operating under
the laws of the Recipient.
10.   "General Conditions" means. the "International Development Association General
Conditions for Credits and Grints", dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set forth
in Section II of this Appendix.
11.    "General Finance Inspectorate" means the Recipient's general finance inspectorate
known as "Inspection Gdndrale des Finances", established and operating under the laws
of the Recipient
12,   "LONATO" means the Recipient's state-owned company responsible for lotteries, known
as "Loterie Nationale Togolaise", established and operating under the laws of the
Recipient.
13.   "NSCT" means the Recipient'; state-owned cotton company known as "Nouvelle Socidt
Cotonni&re du Togo", established and operating under the laws of the Recipient.
14.   "PAL" means the Recipient's state-owned company responsible for the port of Lom
known as "Port Autonome de Loind", established and operating under the laws of the
Recipient
15.   "Privatization tommission" means the Recipient's privatization commission known as
"Commission de Privatisaticn", established and operating under the laws of the
Recipient.
16.    "Procurement Regulatory Authority" means the Recipient's procurement regulatory
authority, known as "I'AutontJ de Rdgulation des Marchds Publics", established and
operating under the laws of the Recipient.
17.    "Production Season" means the Recipient's cotton production and commercialization
season, starting approximately in April and ending approximately in March of the
following calendar year.
18.   "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated April 12, 2012 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the
Recipient's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
the Association in support of the Program during its execution.
19.   "SALT" means the Recipient's state-owned company responsible for Lom6 Tokoin
airport, known as "Socidtd Aroportuaire de Lomd Tokoin", established and operating
under the laws of the Recipi en:.
20.    "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section
H of Schedule I to this Agreement.
-11-


﻿21.    "SNPT" means the Recipient's state-owned phosphate company known as "Socidtd
Nouvelle des Phosphates de Togo", established and operating under the laws of the
Recipient.
22.    "State Finance Inspectorate" means the Recipient's state finance inspectorate, known as
"Inspection Gdndrale de Etat", established and operating under the laws of the Recipient.
23.    "TdE" means the Recipient's state-owned water company known as "Togolaise des
Eaux", established and operating under the laws of the Recipient.
24.    "UTB" means the Recipient's state-owned bank known as "Union Togolaise de Banque",
established and operating under the laws ofthe Recipient.
Section IL Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1.    The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3.     Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article IV are renumbered accordingly.
4,     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records
...    (c)    The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records."
6.     Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as
follows:
"Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
(c)    The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association
-12-


﻿of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing."
7.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Financing is put in support
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
Financing Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in the Appendix
are deleted in their entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows:
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support
of which the Financing is made." All references to "Project" throughout these
General Conditions arc deemed to be references to "Program".
-13-


