OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Supplemental Letter
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
15   JUIN 2012       ,2012
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Re: Credit No. 5120-TG
(Fifth Economic Recovery and Governance Credit)
Section :5.01 of the General Conditions
Financial and Economic Data
Dear Sirs:
In connection with the Finan:ing Agreement (Financing Agreement) of this date between
the Republic of Togo (Member Country) and International Development Association
(Association) providing financing (Financing) for the above-captioned Operation, and the
General Conditions (General Conditions) made applicable to the Financing Agreement, I am
writing on behalf of the Member CoLntry, to set forth the following:
1.    We understand and agree that, for purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions,
the Member Country is required by the Association:
(a)    to report "long-term external debt" (as defined in the World Bank's Debtor
Reporting System Manual, dated January 2000 (DRSM)), in accordance with the DRSM, and in
particular, to notify the Association :f new "loans commitments" (as defined in the DRSM) not
later than 30 days after the end of the quarter during which the debt is incurred, and to notify the
Association of "transactions under loans" (as defined in the DRSM) once a year, not later than
March 31 of the year following the year covered by the report; and
(b)    to (i) notify the Association at least three months prior to incurring any non-
concessional long-term external debt, of its intention to incur such debt, together with the
proposed terms of such debt; and (ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Member Country on the matter. For purposes of this paragraph, "non-
concessional long-term external debt" means any long-term external debt (as defined in the
DRSM), but excluding private debt (as so defined), with an estimated grant element (GE)
calculated in the manner publi ;hed from time to time by the Association (see,
www.worldbank.ori/ida under "reports") of less than (i) 35% or (ii) the GE for determining
concessionality established by the International Monetary Fund in any Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility arrangement or Policy Support Instrument with the Member Country in effect at
the time of such notice, whichever is higher.


﻿-2-
2.     We represent that, except as reported to the Association, no defaults exist in respect of
any external debt (as defined in ihe DRSM). It is our understanding that, in making the
Financing, the Association may rely an the representations set forth or referred to in this letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by having a duly authorized
representative of the Association sign in the space provided below.
Very truly yours,
UE To
REPU        F TOGO
By:                          -7
Authorized Representative
conomiVe
AGREED:
INTERNATIONAL           OPMENT ASSOCIATION
By:
Authori ed Represe tative


