CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1184a-YAR
FILE COPY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR THE
TIHAMA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
April 16, 1973
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may. not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsbility for the accwacy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Free Market Rates 2
1972 Averages      March 1973
1 Yemeni rial                           $0.20             $0.22
1 US Dollar                              5.o rials         4.50 rials
21    No par value has been communicated to the IMF.
However, the Yemen Arab Republic agreed in 1972
to a provisional rate of US$1 = YR5. Most free
market transaLctions took place at that rate
during 1972. Following the devaluation of the
dollar in February 1973, the rial appreciated
to a rate of $1.00 = YR.-50



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic for the equivalent of US$10.9
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for agricultural
development of the Tihama region.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A memorandum entitled "Current Economic Position of the Yemen Arab
Republic" (EMA-50a) dated April 20, 1972, which updates the economic report
issued on October 16, 1970 (EMA-25a), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 15, 1972. More recent information on the economy was obtained by an
economic mission to Yemen in the autumn of 1972 which will shortly complete
its report. This mission concentrated mainly on the agricultural sector, and
its principal findings are reported below. Country data are provided in
Annex I.
3.         The present Yemen Arab Republic was established in 1962, replacing
the ruling Imam and his oligarchy, under whom Yemen had remained almost com-
pletely isolated from the rest of the world. Lack of internal transport and
communications facilities has contributed to the continuing isolation of
many parts of the country. Since 1962, Yemen has witnessed a long civil war
(1962-1970), frontier clashes with the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen,
drought, subsequent famine in certain areas (1969 and 1970), and disease in-
cluding a cholera outbreak in 1971.
4.         Political integration has been hindered by tribal differences.    The
end of the civil war left the tribal sheikhs in a stronger and more independ-
ent position than before. This fragmentation of power, combined with the
absence of institutions and of trained cadres at the central government level,
has greatly hindered the government's ability to formulate national economic
objectives, tax adequately and otherwise control the economy, and carry out
a program of economic development.
5.         Despite these problems, however, coalition governments have made
considerable progress since early 1970 in introducing basic elements of
modern government. During the past eighteen months, Yemen has elected its
first national legislature, established a central bank, organized a national
planning and statistical agency and a public works authority, and improved
its revenue performance. Four commercial banks began operation in 1971-72
(bringing the total number to five), and the government has been successful



-2-
in soliciting sizeable external assistance from Eastern, Western, and Arab
sources. In November 1972, an agreement was signed at Tripoli between the
governments of the two Yemens aiming at a merger between them. While it
remains to be seen whether or not the merger can be implemented, at least
the agreement has stopped the fighting between the two countries and improved
the prospect that greater attention can now be given to the task of economic
development.
6.         Yemen is among the least developed countries in the world.    Over
90% of its estimated 5-6 million people are engaged in agriculture and only
a few hundred thousands live in cities and large towns. Considerable pro-
gress has been made in building roads and other transport facilities over
the last decade, and development of the primary highways should be complet-
ed by 1974, with completion of the Sana'a-Saada road to northern Yemen and
the paving of the Sana'a-Taiz highway (see Map). However, Yemen remains
extremely underdeveloped in virtually every other form of economic and
social infrastructure, and in its most forms of institutional and adminis-
trative capacity. The literacy rate is estimated at only 10 percent of total
population.  Domestic savings are extremely small, but due to the actual
and potential availability of foreign aid, imported capital goods are not
the most crucial bottleneck. The most basic constraints to development and
to the country's ability to absorb aid are the lack of skills (technical,
entrepreneurial and managerial), the lack of institutions, and the country's
low resource base and the insufficient information concerning it. Yemen will
need to expand its absorptive capacity through resource surveys and preinvest-
ment studies, enlarged training programs, and incentive schemes to attract
skilled Yemenis now working abroad to return. It will have to continue, in
the meantime, to rely to a large extent on the services of expatriates.
7.         Land and water are both scarce in Yemen, yet agriculture accounts
for perhaps three-fourths of GDP. Farmers are industrious, and land and water
resources are carefully husbanded, with terracing and primitive irrigation
work. However, the agricultural sector remains basically subsistence-oriented
and is constrained by a feudal system of land tenure. Cereals for local con-
sumption are the principal crops, while very modest amounts of cash crops are
exported; rock salt comprises the only significant non-agricultural export.
These exports have long been stagnant, and there seems little prospect for
much growth in the near future. Food imports, on the other hand, have mounted
rapidly in recent years. Improved rainfall in the past two years has narrowed
the food gap in the countryside, but the trade deficit in food products has
continued to mount. Given these conditions, the agricultural sector warrants
highest priority in Yemen's development program.
8.         Yemen's known other resources are very limited.   Fishing may have
some potential for growth, but is currently of little economic importance.
Unlike most countries of the Arabian peninsula, Yemen has no known oil re-
sources. No basic resource survey has been made, and except for rock salt,
no minerals are known to exist in commercial quantities.



-3-
9.         Until about five years ago, industry was virtually non-existent.
Since then, a number of factories have been built in the main cities, mostly
with foreign aid. These include tobacco, textile, aluminum, soft drinks,
cement and other building materials factories. Nevertheless, industry employs
probably still less than one percent of the labor force. There appear to be
good prospects for industrial expansion in agricultural processing and in
light manufacturing for construction and domestic consumption.
10.        Tourism is another sector with a very small base, but with some
potential for growth. Before the 1962 Revolution, tourists were discouraged
from entering the country. Later the civil war and lack of amenities were
serious deterrents. Tourism is now being encouraged and two new hotels have
recently been completed. Yemen has much to offer the tourist, including a
favorable climate in the mountains, fine scenery, unique architecture, and
antiquities. With its new roads, airport facilities, and hotels, Yemen may
expect tourism, especially from neiglhboring countries, to play an increasing
role in the economy in coming years.
11.        The overall economic situation has improved substantially since
about mid-1970, due to the end of the civil war, a substantial inflow of
capital and some entrepreneurs from neighboring countries, improved rain-
fall, and large injections of foreign aid in support of both current and
capital expenditures. Production in the countryside has risen substantially
in the past two years, mainly due to better weather, and there has been
rapid growth in construction and consumption in Yemen's cities. Urban growth
has been supported by large private remittances from Yemenis working abroad
(nearly $50 million in 1971), by inflows of private capital and higher public
expenditures. The large inflows of both public and private capital have been
maintained in 1972 and have contributed to the accumulation of cash balances
by the government and to a stabilization of the free exchange rate of the
Yemeni rial. However, the rising foreign assets and expanding credit to the
private sector contributed to continuing inflationary pressures.
12.        Yemen's recent fiscal performance has been mixed.   Current reve-
nues have more than doubled in the past two years, despite fundamental social
and political constraints on tax capacity. Nevertheless, the current budgetary
deficit continued to widen as current expenditures increased even more. Budg-
etary support (largely from Saudi Arabia) was equivalent to almost half of
total current expenditures in FY72, while development expenditures continued
to be financed almost entirely from foreign aid. Disbursements from foreign
project and commodity aid in FY1970 and FY1971 averaged about $16 million
annually. The Government will have to rely on foreign aid for the financing
of most of development expenditure for some time. Yemen's budgetary and
balance of payment's position is extremely vulnerable, and greater control
needs to be exercised on the growth of current expenditures. The growing
prosperity of the urban sector will remain precariously dependent on remit-
tances and capital inflows from abroad until development efforts begin to
improve productivity and create an economic surplus particularly in the rural
sector.



-4-
13.        Thus far, Yemen's lack of clearly defined national economic objec-
tives and priorities has underlain a piecemeal and uncoordinated developmient
effort, although a large part of investments has been in the transport sector
and responded to obvious priorities.   To help remedy this situation, the Bank,
together with the Kuwait Fund, has sponsored an advisory team in the Central
Planning Organization (CPO). The team, currently composed of five members,
helped create the CPO, which is responsible for devising and carrying out
Yemen's economic development plans. The CPO is, at present, perhaps the
most active and best organized and staffed organization in Government. It
is drafting a national development strategy and mid-term investment program,
helping channel and coordinate external aid, advising on general economic
policy and identifying and preparing investment projects. In the spring of
1973, the CPO will present its recommended medium-term development strategy
and investment program to the Council of Ministers, after which an official
program is expected to be adopted.
14.        Yemen's reliance on foreign aid over the past decade hias resulted
in the growth of a large foreign debt. Total disbursed public external debt
as of mid-1972 was estimated at about $147 million with about another $100
nmillion undisbursed.  The major creditors are the USSR, China, Saudi Arabia,
and the Federal Republic of Germany. Yemen has not been able to service most
of its debts, and lenders have not been pressing for repayments. Some debts
have been rescheduled, and the Yemeni authorities are currently engaged in
bilateral negotiations to postpone other repayment obligations. Most of the
donors have recently been making their assistance available on grant or very
soft terms, recognizing that Yemen's capacity to service debt will remain
limited for many years.   Efforts are being made by the Yemeni authorities to
better monitor disbursement of foreign debt and existing and future servicing
obligations.
15.        The aid program of the Federal Republic of Germany is currently
the largest. The aid role of the Soviet Union has been cut back in recent
years; China is continuing with a large road building project. Substantial
aid has been provided by Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Libya, and in recent
months the United Arab Emirates have also made aid commitments to Yemen.
British and American aid will soon become more significant.    As aid programs
grow the need for better aid coordination and direction also increases.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YEMEN
16.        Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank grants
as of March 30, 1973, and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
17.        In 1971, the Bank made a grant of $200,000 to help finance a team
of planning and economic advisors. The team has been very successful (see
para 13 above), and the Government has requested an extension of its services.



18.        In June 1972, the Executive Directors approved an IDA credit of
$7.7 million equivalent for a Hiighways Project. The project provides equip-
ment for road maintenance and feeder road construction, and also finances
feasibility studies and detailed design of important highway links.    It in-
cludes creating a national Highway Authority with capacity to effectively
plan, design, maintain and administer the highway network. This was the
Government's first experience with a Bank Group lending operation, and they
lhave carried out their responsibilities quickly and efficiently. Necessary
legislation has been passed, the Highway Authority created and staffed, and
three groups of consultants selected for various project activities.
19.        Future Bank Group activity for Yemen will focus on three objectives:
(a) enlarging Yemen's absorptive capacity through assistance to education,
the creation of essential institutions, and initiation of resource surveys
and other basic information studies; (b) continuing to help devise an appro-
priate development strategy and investment program, including special project
identification and preparation work; and (c) lending in sectors of high prior-
ity such as agriculture, social services and basic infrastructure. In view
of Yemen's poverty and its large external debt, only IDA financing is envisaged.
The Bank Group's program will lay particular emphasis on setting up project
related institutions, which will initially have to rely heavily on expatriate
specialists and consultants. However, emphasis will be placed on recruiting
local counterparts, and the Bank Group will continue its close relationship
with newly created institutions through frequent contacts and possibly through
repeater operations, to help consolidate their operations, and train staff.
20.        Apart from the proposed credit, the Association has appraised an
education project which envisages establishment of teacher's training facil-
ities, vocational and agricultural training centers, and other schools, as
well as improvements in existing schools and provision of technical assist-
ance. This project is presently scheduled for Board presentation towards
the end of FY73. An industrial estates project which aims at providing
infrastructure, technical assistance, extension services, and credit for im-
port of equipment, has been prepared with the help of UNIDO and is being
appraised by the Association. WHO and various consulting firms have carried
out studies and prepared, under the guidance of the Association, a water
supply project for Sana'a, the capital of Yemen, which is scheduled for
appraisal in mid-1973. Furthermore, preparation work has been initiated for
an integrated rural development project for the Midlands and Ilighlands regions
of Yemen. Investigations of the agricultural potential of other areas of the
Tihama region would be financed under the proposed project.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
21.        Unlike most of the countries of the Arabian Peninsula, parts of
Yemen catch the edge of the Indian Ocean monsoon winds and rainfall is usually
adequate to cultivate up to two million hectares. Perhaps another three mil-
lion hectares have soil suitable for cultivation, but are usually uncropped
for lack of wiater. Only about 200,000 ha are currently irrigated.



- 6 -
22.        Agriculture is Yemen's predominant sector, employing 80-90% of the
working population, generating about 70% of GDP, and accounting for 90% of
its meager exports. The nature and structure of agriculture has been essen-
tially unchanged for centuries. About 90% of the cropped area is devoted to
cereals--sorghum, millet ancd some maize. Cash crops produced for export are
principally coffee and cotton.
23.        The country is di'vided by topography and rainfall into five major
zones:  (a) The Tilhama region (coastal plain) borders the Red Sea and occupies
about 10% of the country. The proposed proj ect is located in this region.
Agricultural production is concentrated in the eight major wadis (valleys of
seasonal streams whose catchments are in the mountains). All of the cotton
and miuchI of the domestically marketed grain surplus are produced in the Tihama.
(b) The Western slopes comprise perhaps 20% of the country between the coastal
region and the mountain plai ns. Farming is carried out on heavily terraced
slopes and small alluvial strips in the bottom of mountain gorges. Cereals,
fruits and vegetables, coffee and qat, a mild narcotic leaf, are the major
crops, and livestock graze on the mountain sides. (c) The Pfidlands Region
between 1,000 m and 2,500 m high, benefits from up to 1,000 nrm of rainfall,
comprises about 10% of the country, and is tile most productive agricultural
region in Yemen, basically with the same products as the Western slopes.
(d) Iiighlands, above 2500 in, produces wheat, barley and sorghum and dry
grazing.  (e) The Eastern slopes, whiclh were reputedly a rich agr'icultural
region in antiquity, is now largely a desert.
24.        Most agriculture is conducted on a subsistence basis. Although some
modern agricultural inputs have been introduced in various areas during the
past two years, such as pumps, tractors and fertilizers, productivity is among
the lowest in the world. Even in a normal agricultural year, about 20% of the
country's food requirements must be imported.  Foodstuffs constituted almost
half of total imports in 1971. There is no national agricultural extension
service, no organized agricuLltural credit of any kind except for cotton, and
there are only limited research and extension activities underway through
three UNDP/FAO projects.
25.        Despite the diffi-cult conditions under which they work, Yemeni
farmers are energetic and acdaptable. Experiments with improved seeds and
fertilizer have produced significant increases in production. However, there
are a number of major constraints to development of agriculture including:
(a) erratic rainfall couplecd with absence of a basic knowledge of water re-
sources and irrigation facil]ities; (b) extreme shortage of basic institutions
and skilled manpower; (c) low level of technology and infrastructure--feeder
roads, etc.; and (d) the existence of complex socio-economic systems inherent
in a centuries-old, basically tribal society. The majority of farmers own
their farms, but their holdi ngs are generally very small and their total
ownership probably does not exceed about 10% of the total cultivated area.
About 15-20% of arable land is state- or privately-owned waqf land (donated
to religious trusts), generally leased to farmers. The balance is in the
form of large-sized individual ownerships, also generally leased.



26.        The Government is devising a development strategy for agriculture,
with the assistance of the IBRD-Kuwait Fund planning team. The draft devel-
opment program is expected to be ready in mid-1973. It appears at this stage
that it will emphasize agricultural development as its first priority. The
strategy within the sector would focus on: (a) development of the Tihama for
cash crop (i.e. cotton), grain and cereal production; (b) development of the
Midlands/-lIighlands for more immediate cereal food production increases; and
(c) establishment of national agricultural research, extension and credit
services and agricultural planning and administrative capacity. This general
approach seems appropriate.
27.        There has been little public investment in the agricultural sector,
and virtually all such investment to date has been financed from external
sources, primarily the USSR, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic
of Germany and the UNDP/FAO.   Additional technical assistance for groundwater
and soils evaluation and crops research is being offered by the United Kingdom,
Chinia and United States.
PART IV - TliE PROJECT
28.        The proposed project is based on investigations by Ilungarian con-
sultants under an investment feasibility study financed by the Kuwait Fund
and UNDP/FAO. The preparation work started in April 1969. An FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program mission prepared a feasibility report.    The project was
then appraised in June/July 1972. Negotiations were held in February/March
1973.  The Yemen delegation was headed by 'Mr. Ahmed Abdo Saeed, Minister of
State for Development.
29.        The project represents the first stage in the development of the
Tihama (coastal) region of Yemen.   It consists of:   (a) improvement of the
existing surface water irrigation system and introduction of deep well
groundwater irrigation at Wadi Zabid, covering an area of 17,000 ha; (b)
a feasibility study of lWadi MIawr for the development of surface and ground-
water on about 60,000 ha; (c) an agricultural credit component to finance
loans to farmers; and (d) establishment of a Tihama Development Authority
responsible for development of agriculture in the whole Tihama Region and
of an institution for agricultural credit. The total estimated cost of the
project is $17.5 million (net of duties and taxes) with an estimated foreign
exchange component of $10.9 million. The proposed IDA credit would cover the
full foreign exchange component, about 62% of project costs. The Kuwait Fund
and the Government would provide up to $5.9 million for local costs, or 34%
of total costs, of which $0.7 million would be used by the Yemen Government
to start the credit fund. The balance of $0.7 million would be supplied by
project farmers participating in the credit scheme. Effectiveness of the
IDA credit is subject to the approval by the Kuwait Fund's Board of their
loan, which would be on IDA terms but with a service charge of 1/2%. A
Credit and Project Summary is attached as Annex III together with a map
showing the location of the project areas. A report entitled "Appraisal of
Tihama Development Project - Yemen Arab Republic" (73a-YAR) dated March 27,
1973 is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 8 -
30.        Wadi Zabid is the fourth largest valley in Yemen covering about
25,000 ha, out of which about 20,000 ha are cultivable and about 17,000 ha
served by the projects works. About 60,000 people live in the wadi. The
soils are good and well drained. Seasonal rainfall produces uncontrolled
flash floods. The project would include construction of about 10 permanent
diversion weirs (replacing the temporary structures often washed away during
heavy flooding), improvements to about 120 km of existing canals and struc-
tures, construction of about: 50 km of new canals and additional structures
on the canals. Credit facilities would also be provided for drilling up to
35 tubewells for groundwater irrigation for about 1,400 ha. Simple agri-
cultural research and extension services, and a credit institution for lend-
ing for agricultural development and processing (i.e. cotton ginning) facili-
tiEs, would also be provided.
31.       IWadi Mawr is the largest valley in Yemen, with about 60,000 ha of
cultivable land. Of this 35,,000l ha is commanded by an existing spate irriga-
tion system more primitive than in Zabid. About 20,000 ha are irrigated in
a typical year. An additional 25,000 na is believed to be underlain with
groundwater suitable for irrigation.  Wadi Mawr is remote and more sparsely
populated than Zabid. The ieasibility study for Wadi Mawr would assess the
potential and prepare a plarn for developing surface and groundwater for ir-
rigation.  The project woulcd also finance a 60 km access road and buildings
for project staff in W4adi Mletwr.
Project Institutions, Studies and Consultant Services
32.        The Project would be implemented by a Tihama Development Authority
(TDA) which has been created by legislation adopted in 1973. Its Chairman/
General Manager would be appointed as a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
credit. Advisors to TDA for management and final administration would be
provided under the project. The Authority is to be responsible for overall
development of agriculture in the Tihama. It would supervise the research
and extension services, project investment works and the Wadi Mawr feasibility
study. TDA would also prescribe regulations for water rights for both ground-
wqater and surface water irrigation, and levy and collect clharges. It would
recover, through its charges and revenues, from the beneficiaries of the Wadi
Zabid the project's full investment costs (without interest), over a period
of 50 years as well as operational and maintenance costs. To assist the TDA,
a firm of consultants was engaged on March 1, 1973 to design the project's
works and supervise construc tion and carry out the Wadi Mlawr feasibility
study. The Kuwait Fund will meet payments to the new consultants prior to
the effectiveness of the proposed credit. The foreign exchange cost of the
consultants up to that date are estimated not to exceed $150,000 and would
be reimbursed from the IDA credit, which would also cover the costs subse-
quently incurred.
33.        An Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) would be established in the Central
Banki to provide financing to Zabid and Mawr farmers for well drilling, land-
levelling, and other on-farm development works. At this stage, the Central
Bank is the only institution capable of handlirng such a service. Advisors
will be provided to help devise and implement appropriate lending procedures.



- 9 -
It was agreed during negotiations that the Government would on-lend about $2
million of the IDA credit to the ACF in the Central Bank at a rate of 4%.
There is no organized credit for agriculture in Yemen presently, and even
comnercial lending is still in its infancy (total claims on the private sector
were less than $10 million in 1971). Therefore, on-lending rates to farmers
cannot be fixed immediately but would be agreed upon with the Association
after a study and recommendations by the ACF's advisors. The rates would be
reasonably in line with commercial rates for similar loans, now about 9 to
11% per annum, and are expected to enable ACF to cover operating expenses
and charges and to build up some reserves.
Staffing and Construction Schedule
34.        About 25 Yemeni engineers, agriculturalists and credit officers will
be required for the project. Counterpart staff is in extremely short supply
in Yemen and suitable incentives such as salary supplements or repatriation
bonuses may be required to provide the necessary local personnel for the
project and retain them in public service. Our current experience with re-
cruitment for the highway authority, created in conjunction with our recent
highway credit to Yemen, has stressed this need. The TDA will be empowered
to establish its own salary structure. It was agreed during negotiations
that the Kuwait Fund, which is financing local costs of the project, would
consider providing funds for salary supplements to qualified staff of the
TDA under the project. This scheme would be implemented only after an evalua-
tion of the effect of such arrangements on similar staff in the rest of the
public sector.
35.        The schedule for implementing the project foresees initiating the
Wadi Mawr study immediately, so that it can be completed by June 1976. In
Wadi Zabid, construction of minor roads and buildings should be put to tender
as soon as the credit is effective.   Irrigation works construction should
start by July 1974 and be completed by MLarch 1977.
Procurement and Disbursement
36.        The surface irrigation works at W4adi Zabid would be awarded under
international competitive bidding in accordance with the IDA Guidelines for
Procurement. Construction of buildings and road works at Wadi Zabid and lladi
Mawr costing altogether about $1.4 million, would be awarded to local con-
tractors after local bidding. Well drilling might be done by TDA, with a
rig procured under the project, as force account work. The building, road
and drilling works are small, located at several isolated sites and timing
of their construction is scattered; they are therefore not suitable to
international competitive bidding. About $1.0 million worth of equipment
will be provided under the project, of which about $0.35 million will be pro-
cured by international competitive bidding. The balance, consisting of
specialized instruments and equipment of small unit value, would be procured
locally or imported by direct purchase. Equipment items financed by the agri-
cultural credit fund and costing more than $10,000 each will also be subject
to international competitive bidding.



- 10 -
37.        The proceeds of the proposed credit would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project, as detailed hereunder:
(a)  civil works - the foreign exchange cost of foreign
contractors and 42% of total expenditures for local
contractors or force account work (representing the
estimated foreign exchange component);
(b)  equipment and materials - the CIF cost of directly
imported goods and S0% of total expenditures of imported
goods procured locally;
(c)  technical services - the foreign exchange cost of con-
sultants, advisors and overseas training; and
(d)  agricultural credit - 75% of payments made by ACF for
loans made to its borrowers.
Disbursement requests will be supported by full documentation except for force
account work and for loans ]ess than $30,000 equivalent made to farmers under
agricultural credit, which will be disbursed against a statement of expend-
itures. The supporting documents for these expenditures will be retained by
the executing agency and will be available for review by project supervision
miss ions.
38.        The agricultural output of the project, except cotton, would be
domestically consumed either as subsistence foodgrains or as import sub-
stitutioin. The total cotton production of the project would contribute an
insignificant portion of the world cotton trade and would not pose any
r,iarketing problem.
Land Tenure and Water Charges
39.        The average farm income for privately-owned and tenant-operated
farms would roughly double in Wadi Zabid as a result of the project. Cur-
rently about half of the land in Wadi Zabid is waqf land, one-third is owned
by 25 tribal heads and leased to tenants, and the remainder (about 18%) is
owned by 2,000 small farmers with an average farm size of about 1.5 ha. The
individual large holding varies from 35 to 1,500 ha and averages about 240
ha per owner, some of whom live outside the project area.    Mlost of the large
holdings however, are farmed by tenants, with an average of about 9 ha per
tenant. The existing land tenure system is the outcome of a centuries-old
tribal system under which a tribe was considered an extended family group
with the head of the tribe managing the land on which the tribe was settled.
With time, the tribal heads became the owners of the land and other members
the tenants. However, the tribal bonds are still strong and because of this,
tenancy rights are virtually secure; in most cases tenancy passes from father
to son.



40.        Yemen is essentially still a conservative and, in places, a feudal
society. The Government's capacity to introduce and execute development
policies implying major social changes is still very limited despite the
progress noted earlier in this report. There is no likelihood that a major
restructuring of tenure and ownership patterns could be effectively legislated,
let alone enforced, at the presenit time. However, it may be possible to
introduce the principle of change in these patterns through measures that
reduce incorne disparities, such as progressive water charges. The Govern-
ment has affirmed the desirability of charging wealthier farmers a proportionately
higher rate to cover the costs of operation and maintenance, and recovery of
investment of the project's irrigation works. It was agreed during negotiations
that the Government, with the help of the project consultants, will investigate
the feasibility of introducing such a system and, if it is determined to be
practicable, will prepare and implement a plan of progressive water charges.
Economic Justification
41.        The project would generate significant increases in agricultural
production which would result in higher incormie and employment opportunities
for some 3,700 farm families and 2,500 landless farm laborers in the Wadi
Zabid area. The Wadi 'Mawr feasibility study would lay the foundation for
development of about 60,000 h1a with major agricultural potential.   The in-
troduction of the first credit and extension services will have a major im-
pact on the institutional development of the agricultural sector. The
project at full development would increase the net cropped area by about
12%, and increase yields by about 50% for maize and oilseeds, 70% for sorghum
and millet, 90% for cotton and 100% for vegetables. The "with-project" agri-
cultural output would be valued at $7.1 million, more than twice the output
that could be expected without the project. This increase in the project's
output contributes to foreign exchange saving both througlh increased exports
and through import substitution. Leaving aside the costs of the Wadi Mawr
feasibility study, the project's economic rate of return, including the cost
of hired labor but shadow-pricing family labor contribution to zero, is
estimated at 151%.  The potential benefits from the Wadi Mawr study are
evident but not readily quantifiable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
42.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association and
the Yemen Arab Republic, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Re-
solution approving the proposed Development Credit are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. The draft agreement conforms to the normal
pattern for credits for irrigation projects.
43.        I am satisfied the proposed development credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 12 -
PART VI - RECOMMlENDATION
44.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attacihments



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2 pages
COUNTRY DATA - YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AREX4                               POPUIATION                   DENSIfl
Roughly 75,000 aq.m.                5-6 million (1971 eat.)      65-80 per sq.m.
no census
Rate of growth: 2-3%
(1960-70)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS                      HEALTH
Lif.e expectancy: east. 30-40 years              Population per physician: 20,000 eat.
Infant mortality: about 50%                     Population per hospital bed: 1500-2500 est.
NUTRITION                                       EDUCATION
Widespread malnutrition and                      Literacy: Est. 10% of total popualation
protein deficiency                             School enrollmant (1972): 133,000
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1972: $90
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE                  % of GDP             % of Labor Force
Agriculture                        70- 0                      80-90
Other sectors                      20-30                     10-20
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (millions of rials)                    Proy.   Est.
FY69     FY70     FY71     FY72
Reveinues                                52       73       S8      151
E4xpenditures                           122      129      171      23h
Current Balance       1/              -70      -56      -73      -83
De)velopment expenditures-               23       :       7         7
Overall Balance                               -137     -156     -139
Donentic bank financing                  70       45      37       -32
External financing                       23       92      119      171
MONEY AND CREDIT (millions of rials)                                  J u n e
1969:    1970     19,71    1971    1972
Money supply                            190      230      292               37L7
Quasl money                               5        8      32       36       45
Credit to private sector                 19       29      70       55      108
Net claims on government                118      151      110      141      109
TTEquivalent to foreign project id



ANE   I
Page 2 of 2 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ($ millions)                                            Jan.-June
1969     1970      1971     1972
Exports                               6    6E_
Importa                                           -66       -89      -72      -48
Invisibles and worker remittances                  42        45       47       36
Cash and commodity grantB                            5       18        6       13
Current Balance                                 -11       -20      -13        5
Non-monetary capitai'/                            7-         30      7          9
Reserves, changes (-increase)                     -       -10      -18      -14
Reserve Position ($ millions)
Net reserves of Central Bank                       75        80       95      100 (June)
(of which: Free Reserves)                           (1)      (7)     (23)     (32)(June)
RATE OF EXCHANGE (U.S.0 per rial)
Free market rate (average)                          22       18       19       20
MECHANDISE EXPORTS (Recorded)2/          Avera       1969-71
US$Mln      -
Coffee                                                  3
Qat                                      o.6            16
Cotton                                   0.6            16
Hides and skins                          0.5            14
Other                                    o.6            16
Total    3.7           100
EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 1972                          Umln.
Public debt, incl. guaranteed                          246
of which: disbursed                                 (147)
Debt service due 1972/73                               10-202!
Debt service ratio, est. 1972/73                        12-25 %i
?,j-i'2C 0fi" EXCHANGE                          IMRD/mA LEDJING
(as at February 2b, 1973)
Free Market Rates                                             US$ln.
19'72 Average  March 1973                                       IBRD   IDA
$ 0.20         $0.22          Outstanding and disbursed       -      -
?YR 5.0         YR4.55         Undisbursed                     _     7.7
Outstanding incl. undisbursed   -     7.7
1/  31w:Iudes private and public capital, SDR's, and errors and omissions.
2/  Cnll about 50-60% of estimated total merchandise exports are recorded.
/' "is es-timate was provided to the TIBRD in September/October 1972, at which time
i on the debt and debt service burden were still being assembled from various
c ,enlcies .
T' ~Te debt service ratio is estimated on the basis of debt service as % of
rojeclted 1972 exports (including unrecorded) and net invisibles and remittances.
,i' i. .,ar value has been comnmunicated to the ISF. However, Yemen agreed in 1972 to
~.. lovisional rate of US$1 = YR5.



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN
THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
(as at February 25, 1973)                                   US$ Million
Credit                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number        Year          Borrower        Purpose      IDA            Undisbursed
315         1972   Yemen Arab Republic    Highways     7.7               7.7
Total                        7.7               7.7
Of which has been repaid      -
Total now held by IDA        7.7
Total undisbursed                             7.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at February 26, 1973)
- NIL -
C. OTHER BANK GROUP ACTIVITIES
A Bank grant of $200,000 equivalent was approved by the Executive
Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. This
team of five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization,
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, identifying and preparing investment projects, and
coordinating external aid. The CPO is perhaps the most dynamic and active
public sector organization in Yemen,
D,   PROJECT IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 315 - Highways; US$7.7 million Credit of June 26, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The Yemen Government moved very quickly to establish a Highway
Authority, appoint its director and select three different sets
of project consultants (for technical assistance, feasibility
studies and supervision of construction). Although the Development
Credit was made effective only on January 15, 1973, this was due
essentially to delays in the mails. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily and the technical assistance team began work in
Yemen on January 20, 1973.
2/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
YS4EIi ARAB REPUBLIC - TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:             US$10.9 million equivalent.
Terms:              Standard
Proj ect
Description:       The proposed project would consist of modernization of
the existing irrigation system at Wadi Zabid, covering
a net area of 17,000 ha, and a feasibility study for
developing 60,000 ha from surface and groundwater at
Wadi Mawr. Both wadis are in the Tihama (coastal) re-
gion of Yemen. Specifically, the project comprises:
1. Project works
at Wadi Zabid
(i) ten diversion struztures with gated intakes
f or canals;
(ii) improvement of about 120 km of existing canals
and construction of about 50 km of secondary
canals;
(iii) construction of control structures in canals
and field outlets;
(iv) installation of a radio flood warning network;
and
(v) construction of about 135 km of service and
farm roads;
at Wadi Mawr:
(i) a feasibility study for groundwater and surface
water irrigation; and
(ii)  an access road and building works including
housing and offices for project staff.
2.   The creation of institutions for agricultural re-
search, extension and credit and consultant services



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
for these items plus design and construction
supervision of project works in Wadi Zabid and
the Wadi Mawr feasibility study.
3.   Overseas training for selected Yemenis in engineer-
ing., agricultural credit, research and extension.
4.   A credit component to finance loans for agricultural
development in the project areas.
Estimated Cost
US$ million
Local       Foreign        Total
Wadi Zabid
Civil works                            2.6          3.6           6.2
Land acquisition                       0.1           -            0.1
Equipment                               -           0.4           0.4
Engineering and Administration         1.4          1.7           3.1
Sub-Total                      4.1          5.7            9.8
lNTadi Mawr
Civil works                           05           0.3           0.8
Equipment                               -           0.6           0.6
Engineering and Administration         0.5          0.9           1.4
Sub-Total                         1.0          1.8           2.8
Agricultural Credit                    0.7          2.0           2.7
Total                             5.8          965          15.3
Contingencies                          0.8          1.L           2.2
Grand Total                       6.6         10.9          17 5



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local     Foreign    Total
IDA Credit                    _        10.9      10.9
Kuwait Fund   \                9         -9
YAR Government) JD                       -        5
Project Farmers              0.7         -        0.7
6.6       10.9      17.5
Estimated
Disbursements:
US$ million
FY  1973  1974  1975   1976  1977  1978  Cumulative Total
-   1.8    3.7   2.7   1.9   0.8        10.9
Procurement
Arrangements:      International competitive bidding would be followed for
Wadi Zabid civil works and about 82 percent of the equip-
ment to be financed under the project. Equipment items
financed under the agricultural credit component and
costing more than $10,000 would also be procured by
international competitive bidding. Local bidding would
be followed for the construction of buildings and road
works at Wadi Zabid ($0.8 million) and Wadi Mawr ($0.6
million). For certain equipment of a specialized nature
of small unit value, totalling about $190,000 interna-
tional competition would be dispensed with.
Consultants:        A consulting firm would be provided for (i) design and
supervision of construction of the Wadi Zabid irrigation
works, and (ii) the Wadi Mawr feasibility study. Consultants
would also be provided for, (iii) the agricultural credit
fund, and (iv) agricultural extension and research services
at Wadi Zabid. Advisors for management assistance to TDA
would be provided. Tipton and Kalmbach of Denver, USA,
have been engaged for items (i) and (ii) above. Their
services will be financed by the Kuwait Fund prior to
effectiveness of the IDA Credit, on a reimbursable basis.
Rate of Return:    Economic return 13 percent.   Excluding the Wadi Mawr
feasibility study 15 percent.
Appraisal Report:   73a-YAR
March-27, 1973-






__________________________________                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  10124
.....ON SS|- 2  \ .4-                                                                      46'         DECEMBER I77E
^~j1           O CC.  C ''zolRt l v/, W                                YEMEN    ARAB REPUBLIC
'E*slc ~   or'  v 5 A J D I  A R A B I A
0!tFI,  CNITRCCAe!CIBi 'TIHAMA                                                DEVELOPMENT        PROJECT
S I T E  LOCATION
II ROJECT SITE WADI ZABID)
B  C C C  C  ~ k   CB,                 V*-I~'--LZI                       ADI MAWR FEASIBIJITY  STUDY AREA
S U ORB N , ARAS1CF '  PEf /'                            ______ C._.Cr PROLECTE D ACCESS ROAD
Mi 1 e 0,, ^-                    % N                               -   TIHAMA REGIONAL BOUNDARY
B, o    ( A t Z A   (   S   /                    PAVED PRIMARY ROADS
/NPAVED GRAVEL PP MARY ROADS
DOCTOR -- - /(S                ___PRIMARY ROAD UNDER CONSTRUCTION
(I                                   GIVOTHER ROADS AND TRACKS
COINTOUR LINES IN METERS
WAD S
9   ~ )   */  ®\ o86''t                 CAPITAL
.   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
lB  ET,loi~C  I  | AEI  :HC O  'I                              °         KILOMETERS    ID0
16'                1  , Abs    */D2D0                                                                    601
'D                U,d.fi-ned Bo-ndo.,
H.d, Ald R.\-
B.;,F Al F-     Al A'bid'               Rdmr) .°
-14-           Soowoli  >   J     . ~~~~~~~~~Al Udoin                     AI B ,  ._-                  14'-
ou S o,d  '  -(qc   KgOn (1Kd 
| V t o          J ~~~~~~~PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
0                                          /~~~
Mqh    OSC_P AnI         ouo u  TYoRo,
Ekde1dol,~~~~~~ \R,o ,MIOis           
/r C           -- .     '  -oADEN
E T H I O P I A     -
g                              fNGUt F    OF     A DE N
z      ~~~F T A. I
/                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~414,                            46'
'04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



