TO Bt RFTUaRNED    R'QTS DESK                     FILE C0PY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Pubflc Use
Report No. 73a-YAR
RETURN TO
REP, o r   DE-ZSK
ONE VVEEK
APPRAISALJ OF
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
March 27, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for cflicial use only by the Bank Croup. It may not be published,
quot-d or cited without Bank Group authoriation. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURREN:,Y YQJIVALIYA .S
US$1.00    Yenw-ni  ilals (tRls) 4.50
YRls 1.U-   US$*.22
YXls 1 rmillion - U.S$ ..u2,22?
WEIGAHTS AND t1AAIilES
(Matric Systedi)
1 millimeter (mm)                           u .039 inches
1 meter (m)                             -   3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                     -  1.76 square feet
1 iubic meter (m3)                      -   1.31 cubic yards
1 million cubic meters (4t43)           -i0.7 acre feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3/Jec)          35.31 cubic feet per second
1 liter per second (l/seo)              -     .035 cubic feet per second
1 kilometer (kn)                            0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kin2)               =     .3rb square tniles
1 hectare (ha)                          -   2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                         -    .205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)                          2,205 pounds
A'.ii.CEVIAT1 ON",
YAR                      Yemen Arab Reptiblic
Tesco                    Tesco-Vizi terv-Vituki, Consulting Engineers, Budapest
Hlu;ngary
CGC                      CotLon  eu ;ent .'  >.,,rly
TDhA=                    Ts il-ant De e; c,punent Authority
ACF                      Agri_ui tural Crt-dit Fund
CB                       Cexlmra1 batLt.
YBRD             =       Y¢.n 'ank, fi.r KeconsLruction and Development
J Il  A1. YLTh
July 1       -      .une 3u



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAYA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SLUtOARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................    -ii
I.   INTRODUCTION         1......................    1
II.   BACKGROUND ..............................1.............    I
General ..................1...        ..... ..           1
Agricultural Sector ........................             2
III. TiE PROJECT AREAS.                                               4
General.                                                 4
Wadi Zabid.                                              4
General.                                           4
Clinmate.                                          4
Soils.                                             4
Water Supply and Quality ...................    5
Existing Irrigation.                               5
Wiater Rights.                                     5
Defects of the System.                             6
Land Tenure.                                       6
Agricultural Production.                           7
Marketing and Transportation.                      8
Supporting Services.                               8
Wadi Mawr.                                               8
IV. THE PROJECT.                                                     8
General Description .8
Detailed Features.                                       9
Wadi Zabid Irrigation System.                      9
Wadi Mawr Feasibility Study ....       ............  10
Agricultural Research and Extension ........  10
Agricultural Credit .....        ...................   10
Consulting Services .....        ...................  11
Water Supply, Demand and Distribution ......  11
Construction Schedule ................    ......  12
Cost Estimates ....................... ....       12
Financing ......................... ....   14
Procurement .......................        ....   14
Disbursements ............................   15
Accounts and Audit ..........................   15
This r port is based on the findings of an appraisal mission  3z June 1972,
consisting of Messrs. D. D. Brown, J. Bazo, M. Fireman, J. Leblanc, S. M. Niaz
(IDA), U. Kiermayr (FAO) and R. C. Bolger (consultant). Mr. T.H. Yoon assisted
in' performing the economic analysis.



Table of Contents Continued.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................   16
The Tihama Development Authority ....          ............   16
Agricultural Research and Extension ....          .........   17
Agricultural Credit Fund .....           ...................   17
Establishment ......         ........................   17
Lending Policies ......         .....................   17
Tubevell Loans ......         .......................   18
Management .......         ..........................   18
Training ...........        ............................   i9
Operation and Maintenance .....           ..................   19
Project Evaluation ......          ........................   20
Recovery of Project Costs .....           ..................   20
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSFECTS AND FARMERS' INCOME   .....  21
Production .........        .............................   21
Market Prospects .......          .........................   22
Farmers' Income .......         ..........................   22
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   24
Economic Benefits ................................   24
Economic Rate of Return ................... I ......   24
Ecology .    ..........................................   2
VIII.   ACREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS .....            ..........   25
ANNEXES
1.  Agriculture
2.  Water Supply, Quality and Requirements
3.  Land Tenure and  hter Rights in Wadi Zabid
4.  Description of Project Works
5.  The Agricultural Credit Component
Chart 7410 - ACF Organization
6.  Organization, Management and Consultants
Chart 7172(2R) - Project Organization
7.  Design, Construction and Feasibility Schedules
Chart 7171(R) - Wadi Zabid
Chart 7170(R) - Wadi Mawr
8.  Cost Estimate and Schedule of Expenditure
9.  Contracts and Procurement
10.  Schedule of Disbursements
11.  Farm Budgets and Project Charges
12.  Market Prospects and Prices
13.  Economic Ra.te of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
MAPS
10124      Location Map
10125      Wadi Zabid



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture is the main economic sector in the Yemen Arab Republic
(YAR), providing 80% employment, and contributing 70-80% to GDP and 90% to
total exports. Yet this predominant sector is unable to provide agricultural
self sufficiency, as more than 50% of national imports consist of food items.
Therefore, Government correctly emphasizes agricultural development.
ii.       Modernization and improvement of irrigation is a key factor in de-
termining the rate of agricultural development. The existing irrigation sys-
tem in Wadi Zabid, one of the few fcrtile valleys in the otherwise desert
Tihama Coastal Plain, consists of ten stone and brushwood structeres to divert
water from the Wadi (non-perennial stream) into 16 ungated canalrx with a few
outdated drops controlling the flow through the canals. Temporary earthfill
checks and bankcuts at several locations along a canal perform the func'ion
of farm turnouts, each serving several hundred hectares of fields with water
passing from one field badin to the next by cutting the dike that encloses
the field basins. During periods of high flows, uncontrolled amounts of
water enter the canals and overflow the canal banks causing damage to the
canals and the cropped area. Several times a year, diversion structures are
washed away and valuable water is wasted, causing water shortages. About
160 km to the north in Wadi Mawr, the largest of the Tihama wadis, a similar
but even more primitive system irrigates about 20,000 ha and an additional
25,000 ha of arable land is believed to be underlain by groundwater of good
quaiity. The irrigation systems in these two wadis need improvement and both
the groundwater mnd surface water resources of Wadi Mawr need to be fully ex-
plored.  Govern ent has therefore requested IDA assistance in tiv develop-
ment of these two wadis, where water is the limiting resource.
iii.      The project consists of modernization of the existing irrigation
system covering a net area of 17,000 ha in Wadi Zabid and a feasibility study
for developing 60,000 ha from surface and groundwater in Wadi Mawr. In Wadi
Zabid, the project works would include construction of ten diversion weirs
with gated inlats for canals; river training works; improvement and exten-
sion of canals; construction of control structures in canals and farm turn-
outs. A flood warning radio network ard a system of service roads would also
be included. In Wadi Mawr the groundwater explorations would include drill-
ing of about 60 wells out of which t.bout 50 are expected to yield good re-
sults and would be developed for irrigation. The project would also estab-
lish institutions for agricultural research, extension and credit. Consul-
tant services for project works ani. the feasibility study and specialists
to train and advise Yemeni staff l: arganization and management, research,
extension and credit would also be provided. The project would take about
four years to complete.



iv.       A new Authority, the General Manager of which wou2d be assisted by
two experienced adtisors, would be established in the Ministr, of Agriculture
to execute, operate and maintain the project. A new department gould be
created in the Central Bank (CB) to administer the credit component of the
project. the new institutions for research, extension and credit could be
expanded into national institutions following project completion.
v.        The project works in Wadi Zabid, except service roads and tuild-
ings, would be constructed by a contractor on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding. Major equipment woul6 also be procured by international
competitive bidding.
vi.       The total project cost, including US$2.7 million equivalent of
credit component, would be US$17.5 million equivalent. Of this amount,
US$10.9 million (62% of project cost) would be in foreign exchange, to be
financed    -ull by IDA.  The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Dievelopment and
Government   .l$  ontribute the balance, except that the farmers would
contribute        S$0.7 million equivalent (about 20% of the credit component).
vii.      At fuli development, the project would increase annual production
of the main crops: cereal grains by 13,000 m tons; seed cotton by 8,000 m
tons; oilseeds by 1,000 m tons; and vegetables by 12,000 m tons.  Gross value
of production would be increased by about US$4.8 million equivalent and net
annual foreign exchange earnings from the increased sale of cotcon would be
US$1.6 million. The project would also contribute to agricultural import
substitution through increased production of cereal grains, oilseeds and
other food output. The results of the Wadi Mawr feasibility study would
facilitate further investment in roe Tihama.  The economic rate of return
of the project is estimated at 1I." The project benefits which have not
been quantified include the demonstration effects, institution-building and
training elements of this first major irrigation development project in YAR,
which would contribute to agricultural development by relieving some of the
serious development constraints - the lack of trained manpower and institu-
tions.
viii.     As adequate assurances were obtained during negotiations, the pro-
ject would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.9 million. The Borrower
would be the Government of Yemen Arab Republic.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested the
Interr.ational Development Association (IDA) to help finance the development
of agriculture in the Tihama coastal plain bordering the Red Sea (Hap 10124).
The Tihama Development Authority (mDA), to be net up by Government, would
execute the project works for the improvement of existing flood (spate) ir-
rigation for 17,000 ha in Wadi Zabid, one of eight Tihama wadis (non-perennial
streams), and develop new institutions for agricultural research, extension
and credit. The project would include a feasibility study for surface and
groundwater development in Wadi Mawr, t;e largest of the Tihama wadis, which
would facilitate further agricultural development in Tihama.
1.02      This woule be the first IDA credit for agricultural development in
YAR. In July 1971, the Bank approved a grant of US$200,000 to finance, jointly
with the Kuwait Fund, a team of planning and economic advisors to assist Gov-
ernment in establishing the Central Planning Organization and to help it pre-
pare an economic development strategy and identify investment projects. In
June 1972, an IDA credit (315-YAR), partially financed by the Kuwait Fund,
was made for a highway project. The Tihama Development Project would also be
partially financed by the Kuwait Fund.
1.03      This report is based on a preparation report issued by FA0/IBRD
Cooperative Program on April 7, 1972, and a feasibility report prepared by
Tesco-Viziterv-Vituki (Tesco) of Hungary, consultant to UNDP/FAO.  The proj-
ect was appraisee in June 1972 by Messrs. D.D. Brown, J. Bazo, H. Fir-man,
J. Leblanc and S.M. Niaz (IDA); Mr. U. Kiermayr (FAO); and Mr. R.C. Bolg'r
(consultant). Messrs. A.R. Mirghani, F. Sultan and H. El Shohatee from the
Kuwait Fund joined the mission on its field appraisal :ork and participated
in the discussions on various aspects of the project. This report was pre-
pared by the mission and Mr. T.H. Yoon (IDA).
.'I. BACKGROUND
General
2
2.01      YAR, with an area of about 190,000 km , is bounded by the Red Sea
on the west, Saudi Arabia on the north and east and the People's Denocratic
Republic of Yemen otn the south (Map 10124). Its population is about 6 mil-
lion with an annual growth rate of 2.2%. Literacy ranges between 5 and 10%.
Priot to 1962, the country, under the Imam's religious and political leader-
ship, was isolated from developmental activities. A military coup in 1962
removed the ITam and set up a republican government; a civil war then eruptec



-2-
between the Imam'  supporters and the republicans. The war ended in 1970 and
Government initiated economic development programs, financed mostly from
bilateral aid. Although Government appears to have made considerable pro-
gress in consolidation, the nation still remains, in many respects, a con-
fFderation of sheikdoms, and the central Government has somewhat limited
ae.thority, particularly in remote areas.
2.02      Systematic statistical collection is just beginning in YAR; there-
fore, no reliable quantitative economic indicators can be presented. YAR is
one of the poorest countries in the world and the current per capita annual
income is estimated at US$50. Agriculture contributes 70-80% to GDP, nearly
90% to exports, and employs 80-90% of the labor force. A. substantial number
of Yemenis work in neighboring countries. The value of their annual remit-
tance is believed to be about US$50 million.
Agricultural Sector
2.03      The nature and structure of the agricultural sector have remained
basically unchanged for centuries. Over 90% of the cropped area is devoted
to sorghum, maize and millet, yielding on the average 800 kg/ha. Cotton,
coffee, qat (a mild narcotic leaf that is chewed) and hides and skins are
the major agriculture exports. About 2.0 million ha is available for cul-
tivation, of which about 200,000 ha (10%) is currently irrigated. Irrigation
is important to YAR's agriculture because normal rainfall, except for the
highlands and a part of tne midlands, is insufficient for optimum crop yields.
Most if the irrigation is from the wadis and about 20% from wells and springs.
Construction of hand-dug wells has increased in the past few year3.
2.04      On the basis of rainfall, altitude and crop-livestock pattern, YAR
is divided into five regions, all of which, except the Desert: region, produce
cereal grains mostly for local use. The Tihama region (coastal plain) borders
the Red Sea, occupies about 10% of the country, and has most of the area that
is irrigated from the wadis, whose catchments lie in the Highlands and Mid-
lands. All of the cotton and much of the marketed surplus cereal grains are
produced in Tihama region. The mountainous Highlands and the High Plateau
regions, located in the central part of the country, extend almost from north
to south and produce coffee, qat and cereal grains. The Midlands regioin,
an area with medium altitudes, lies between the Tihama and the Highlands
and also produces coffee, qat and cereal grains. Fruits and vegetables are
produced in small areas around Sana'a, Taiz and other places in the mountainous
regions. In the Desert region, comprising about 40% of the country in the
relatively dry eastern and western parts, sheep,  cs, camels and don! eys
are raised. Cattle, in small numbers, are raised in other regions.
2.05      About 10% of the total cultivated area is reported to be owned and
farmed by small farmers, while a large share is in the form of large-sized
individual ownerships that are generally leased to tenants. Perhaps 15-20%
of arable land is in the form of State-controlled or privately controlled
"waqf" land (land donated to charity or religious institutions), which is also
generally leased to tenants.



-3-
2.06      There were no research or extension institutions until 1970, when
three research stations - one each for the Highlands, Midlands and the Tlihama
regions - were established with assistance from UNDP/FAO. So far, the effect
of these projects on agric:Itural development has been insignificant.  The
use of fertilizers, introduced only in 1962, is very limited. Organized
agricultural credit does not exist except. for cotton production.  The Cotton
General Company (CGC), a share corporation in which Government owns a con-
trolling interest, provides advance credits, buys cotton at controlled prices
and markets it exclusively.  All other agricultural products are sold by farmarsi
in villages and town markets.
2.07      Despite the introduction in recent y;¢rs of modern agricultural
input, such as groundwater pumps, farm machinery and fertilizers, agriculture
in YAR remains underdeveloped and its productivity is among the lowest in the
world.  The sector is unable to provide agricultural self-sufficiency.  In
recent years, foodstuff imports, mainly rice, wheat and wheat products, fruit
and vegetable products, tobacco and animal products, which accounted for more
than half the national imports, have beer increasing while agricultural exporte,
have been stagnating. The major agricultural development constraints include:
(a) poor natural resource endowments including low and erratic rainfall which
causes severe shortage of agricultural water supply, and small per capita
cultivable land area with little prospect for its expansion; (b) shortage of
skilled manpower and effective institutions; (c) the primitive levej of agri-
cultural technology and social overh,ead infrastructures such as agricultural
feeder roads and rural electrification, and complementary agro-industrial
facilities; and (d) other complex socio-economic and political inistitutions
which constitute obstacles to the planned acceleration of economic growth,
such as the power structure inherent in the centuries-old tribal society and
resulting land tenure arrangements.
2.08      While Government recognizes the importance of the agricultural sec-*
tor in the economy, it does not yet have a clearly established development
strategy which can be translated into specific action programs and detailed
investment projects. With the assistance of an IBRD/Kuwait Fund adviscry
team, the Central Planning Organization, created in January 1972, is attempt-
ing to formulate a set of economic objectives and mvest:nent priorities. So
far, virtually all of the limited public investment in the agricultural sector
has been undertaken by foreign aid. The Ministry of Agriculture is not yet
fully staffed and Government is hoping to strengthen it. At this formative
stage of development strategy, Government appears to be emphasizing (a) de-
velopment of the Tihama as a long-term cereal grains and cash crop (mainly
cotton) production center; (b) the Midlands and Highlands development as a
short-term cereal grain expansion program; and (c) establishment of national
agricultural research, extension and credit institutions which would increase
both domestic and export crops. This general approach seems appropriate.



-4-
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
General
3.01      The Tihama, about 40 km wide and 400 km in length, is crossed by
8 wadis which originate in the western slopes of the Highlands and flow
westward to the Red Sea. Hodeidah, the main port and commercial centc:r of
YAR, is located near the western center of the region. Project activities
woul'  be concentrated in Wadi Zabid, about 100 km southeast of Hodeidah;
and in Wadi Mawr, about 100 km north of Hodeidah (Map 10124).
Wadi Zabid
3.02      General.  The project area covers about 25,000 ha, out of which
about 20,000 ha is culti.7able and about 1.7,000 ha commanded from the project
works. Area irrigated each year depends on the amount of water available from
the Wadi and generally varies from 8,000 ha to 12,000 ha.
3.03      The 1971 population of the project area was estimated at 60,000;
about 14,000 live in the warket town of Zabid and the remainder in about 25
villages. The Hodeldah-Taiz blacktop road crosses the project area at Zabid.
There are no other roads in the project area, except trails and paths that
criss-cross the area. Short-wave radio is used for official ,communication
between the UNDi/FAO camp in Wadi Zabid and Government offices at Hodeidah,
Taiz and Sana'a.
3.04      Climate.  The climate is hot, humid and tropical.  lWeather data
have been collected only since 1969 (Annex 1). From these data, and by in-
ference from weather stations in similar areas of adjoining countries, mean
monthly temperatures in the project area are estimated to range from 24C
duzing the coolest months to 35C during the warmest montbs. Frost is not
experienced. Severe dust storms occur from February to July. Annual rain-
fall varies from about 400 mm in the eastern part of the project area to
about 100 mm in the west. Average humidity ranges from 50% to 70%. The
measured pan evaporation in 1970 was 3.3 m. Rainfall in the 'Wadi catechment
varies from about 1,200 mm near the eastern part to 400 mm in the west.
About 65X of the annual rainfall and spate flows occurs from July to
October.
3.05      Soils.  The project area is a wide, tlluvial plain formed by flood
deposition of sediments and has slopes ranging from 0.5 to 1.0%. Soils are
mostly light brown silt loams with a moderate water holding capacity, low
in organic matter, slightly alkaline and moderately high in tottl and avail-
able phosphate and potash. Despite the low rainfall, few of the soils are
saline and even fewer are high in exchangeable sodium. Although soil crust-
ing is common, drainage is not a problem due to thf land slope and permeable
subsoils. The soils are suitable for growing such crops as cotton, cereal
grains, vegetables and pulses, and according to USBR standards are clasmified
as 2.000 ha (10%) Class 1; 8,000 ha (40%) Class 2; 7,000 ha (35%) Class 3;
and 3,000 ha (15%) as non-irrigable Class 6. Details are given in Annex 1.



-5-
3.06      Water Supply and Quality.  About 150 Mm3 of spate water will be
available for surface irrigation in an average year, the amount varying be-
tween 100 Mm3 and ever 200 Mm3 depenaiing on ralnfall in the catchment (Annex
1, Table 3). The steep slopes and heavy rainfall in the catchment produce
flash floods which reach the projecc area within one to two hours.  The sl;ate
flow reaches its peak within an hour, the peak lasts only a few minutes ar..
tne flood fades away in 6 to 12 hours. The Wadi flow never reaches the h3d
Sea.  Limited analysas of water samples, taken when the Wadi was in flood,
show a total salt content of 550 ppm, equivalent to an electri,al conduc-
tivity of 0.8 millimhos; las than :ialf of this contribtutes to soil salinity.
With low sodium absorption rat-io and adequate drainage, there aze no salinity
or alkali problems. Flood waters contain about 4 ppm of nitrogen (equivalent
to 40 kg N per ha per meter depth).
3.07      The Tesco feasihility studies indicate that the primary source of
groundwater in the project area is infiltration 'rom tha bed of Wadi Zahid
and percolation from irrigated fields and rainfali. The annual recharge from
these sou ces was estimated by Tesco to be 126 Mm , equivalent to a flow of
about 4 m5/sec. Currently, about 300 dug wells of 15 1/sec average capacity
irrigate about 4,500 ha. Depth to groundwater varies from 2U to 30 im. Tesrs
on a limited number of drilled wells indicate that pron,erly constructed and
developed tubewells would provide 30-40 1/sec of water per well. Groundwater
contains about 600 ppm of salts and 8 to 22 ppm of nitrogen (enough nutrients
for most crops), and is suitable for irrigation. (See Annex 2 for further
details on water supply and quality.)
3.08      Existing Irrigation.  The Wadi flow is distributld in the project
area by 16 main canals (capacity varying from 2.5 to 100 m /sec), having a
total length of over 120 km. The flow is diverted into canals by 10 stone
and brushwood weirs built by farmers across the Wadi creeks (Map 10125).
The weirs are only about one-half meter high and are easily washedi out by
strong velocities generated in the Wadi creeks during floods.  There >re
no control gates at the canal heads and during a flood, the azaunC' of water
entering a canal frequently exceed'  its capacity, causing major breaks in
the canal banks and widespread damage.  Only a few canals have secondaries
and none has tertiaries.  Only about 50 structures exist or. all the canals.
There are no regulating structures or masonry turnouts on the canals.
3.09      Water is diverted into field basins (enclosed by iow earth dikes)
by a temporary earthfill, placed across the canal prior to water entry, and
a cut in the canal bank. Water is kept ponded in the field basin for a few
hours, to store moisture in the aoil, belore releasing it (by breaching an
enclosing field dike) to the next field basin.  After all field basins com-
manded by one bankcut nave received water, the earthfill actcss the canal
is removed and water flows doun the canal to the next temporary eavthfill
and bankcut. This method of distribution diverts full canal flow into a
field basin and often scours the basin and damages the standing crop.
3.10      Water Rights.  A generally accepted system of water rights pre-
scribes when the canals may receive water available in the Wadi (Aknnex 3).
The canals ale divided into three groups and each group has the first right
according to the following dates:



-6-
Grot'p T Canals (upper reach, 4,805 ha), frorm October 19 to
August 2;
Group II Canals (middle reach, 10,175 ha), from August 3 to
September 13; and
Group III Canals (lower reach, 1,450 ha), frcm September 14 to
October 18.
Minor canals (470 ha),. located within or along the Wadi bed, receive water
at any time it is available. Within a canal group, water is allocated to
each canal and to the fields it commands on the basis of "high-lying areas
first." Any water escaping from canal weirs having first right at a par-
ticular time may be used by the next lower canal.
3.11      "Water masters", who have inherited the position or are appointed
informally by local landholders, supervise the distribution of water among
various canals and among turnouts on a canal in accordance with the above
system.  They are also responsible for or:,ynizing and supervising the man
and bullock work crews that maintain and operate the existing system. They
do not supervise distribution of water from field to field, which is done
by the group of concerned farmers.  Water masters have persuasive influence
in managing the system and in trying to prevent violations cf water rights;
however, they lack a legal basis for such action.
3.12      Defects of the System.  The existing irrigation system is faced
with the following operational problems: (a) frequent washout of diversion
weLrs along with upper reaches of canals. causir'  a deficiency of irrigation
water in part or all of the area served; (b) destructive flooding of a canal
and part of its command area due to absence of gated control structures at
canal heads; (c) over-topping and washout of the earth fills ("checks") across
the canals and consequent loss of irrigation; (d) premature breaking of field
bunds during irrigation resulting in insufficient infiltration; (e) exten-
sive erosion of fields caused by diversion of full canal flow at the turn-
out with a deposition of silt that results in uneven field slopes; 'f) over-
irrigation of fields adjacent to canal outlets and under-irrigation of more
distant fields; and (g, high man and bullock labor requirements to repair
and operate the system.
3.13      Land Tenure.  There are no cadastral surveys or records of land
titles. The project area has a complex land tenure, which can be broadly
classified by ownership as follows:
Average
Size of Farm
No. of  No. of   per Tenant or
Area       Owners  Tenants   Small Owner
(ha)    (%)                          (ha)
Ownership
Private (large holdings)              6,000    36       25    650           9.2
Private (small holdings)              3,100    18   2,000       -           1.5
Privately controlled waqf             5,300    31      150    750           7.1
State-controlled waqf                 2,00    15       -      160         16.2



-7.
Most of the land held by 25 large owners (36%) and all of the waqf land (46%)
is farmed by tenants, with an average of about 9 ha per tenant. The balance
(18%) is held and farmed by about 2,000 small owners, with an average of
about 1.5 ha per owner, The individual large holding varies from 35 to 1,500
ha and averages about 240 ha per owner with about 26 tenants, each tenant
farming about 9 ha. Some of the large owners live outside the project are3
and manage their land through overseers. The privately controlled waqf land.
is managed by the family members of the donor, while the State-controlled
waqf land is administered by the Waqf Ministry.
3.14      The existing land tenure is the outcome of a centuries-old tribal
system under which a tribe was considered as one extended family group with
the head of the tribe controlling and managing the land on which the tribe
was settled. With time, the tribal heads became the owriers of the 'and and
other members the tenants.  However, the tribal bonds are still strong and
because of this, tenancy rights are virtually secure; in most cases tenarcy
passes from father to son. Also, by tradition, tenancy rights on the waqf
land are even more secure as such land does not belong to a single owner and
the beneficiaries are only interested in receiving their share of the produce
rather than getting involved in management problems. Because of the tribal
bonds and kinship, the large owners enjoy the support of their tenants and
are all powerful. They also provide local and nationa1l leadership in social
and political fields. Government, therefore, would be iunable to either ini-
tiate or undertake any agrarian or land reforms at this stage of development.
3.15      Tenants on spate-irrigated land provide farm labor and bullocks,
pay for one-third of the cash inputs and Government tax (Zakat) and receive
one-third of the gross output. They also contribute fawily labor and bul-
locks, whenever required, as a part of the cokwnunity effort to reconstruct or
repair the diversion weirs and to repair and operate the existing irrigation
works. Landowners pay for two-thirds of cash inputs and tax, and all hired
labor, and receive two-thirds of the crop; or if an overseer is hired, a cash
rent or one-third of the crop and the overseer the remainder. Ihe financier
of a dug well usually operates and maintains the pump anid eLugune, and receiv2s
50% of the gross crop output; in this case the landholder and sharecropper
each receive 25% of output.  If the landowner owns the -,;Fii, hXe receives 75%
of the crop and the tenant 25%. For well-irrigated lands costs are shared
between the owner and the tenant in the same ratio. However, only about 18%
of the project area is being served by wells.
3.15      Agricultural Production.  Cereal grains (sorghum, millet and maize)
and cotton are the main crops grown in the project area, accounting for 76%
and 18% of the cropped area, respectively. Oilseeds (mainly sesame) and mixed
vegetables make up the balance (6%).
3.17      At present about 11,500 ha receives spate irrigation, out of which
about 1,500 ha also receives well irrigation. An add4tional 3,000 ha is de-
pendent on wells only but does not receive spate water, and about 2,500 ha is
primarily rainfed. The cropping intensity averages about 134%, i.e. about
22,800 ha is cropped per year (Annex 1). Cereal crops yield an average of
750 kg/ha of grain; and cotton, which receives more timely irrigation, yields,
on average, about 1,000 kg/ha.



-8-
3.18      Marketing and Transportation.  Seed cotton can be sold only to the
Cotton General Company (CGC) and the farmers transport their production by
camel and donkey to CGC's buying stations in Zabid town. CGC maintains open
storage yards in Zabid and operates cotton gins at Zabid and Hodeidah. Trans-
portaticn from Zabid to Hodeidah is arranged by CGC in trucks.
3.19      Cereal grains are stored in the villages and are subject to damage
by rodents and insects. Surplus grain and oilseeds are transported by camel
or donkey to either El Gerrahi, a market village about 10 km southeast of
Zabid, or Zabid for marketing. Most of the vegetables are consumed locally.
3.20      Supporting Services.  There is no extension service in the project
area. Agricultural research programs were initiated only in 1970 and have
made very little progress. The project would provide research and extension
services.
3.21      There are no sources of institutional credit to farmers except for
cotton growing. CGC extends interest-free short-term credit in the form uf
cash (a maximum of YRls 150 per ha) and seed to cotton growers, collecting
repayment at the time of delivery of harvest at the buying stations in Zabid.
Non-institutional sources of credit include landlords, relatives and other
money-lenders, with interest rates ranging from 10 to 40%.
Wadi Mawr
3.22      Wadi Mawr, the largest of the Tiham wadis, has a catcbment area
of over 9,000 km and about 60,000 ha of cultivable land (Annex 4). Of this,
about 35,000 ha is commanded by an existing spate irrigation system more
primitive than at Wadi Zabid. An additional 25,000 ha is believed to be
underlain by groundwater suitable for irrigation. Soils, climate, crops
and cropping patterns are similar to those in Wadi Zabid. Hlowever, the
Wadi Mawr area is more sparsely populated and less well developed than
Wadi Zabid, the land holdings are larger, less is known about surface and
groundwater availability in the catchment and arable areas and some of the
soils and groundwater are saline. Access is more difficult. A feasibility
study would be required to assess the potential of the region and to make
recommendations for its development.
IV. THE PROJECT
General Deszription
4.01      The project would consist of:  (a) improvement of an existing irri-
gation system in Wadi Zabid, covering an area of 17,000 ha; (b) a feasibility
study in Wadi Mawr for the development of surface and groundwater on about
60,000 ha; (c) establishment of institutions for agricultural research, ex-
tension and credit; and (d) an agricultural credit component to help finance
loans for agricultural development. The groundwater explorations under the



-9-
feasibility study would result in isntallation of about 50 tubewells, which
would be sold to the farmers through credit extended by the agricultural
credit institution to be established. The project, which would take about
four years to complete, would be executed, operated and maintained by the
Tihama Development Authority (TDA), to be established by Government. A con-
sulting firm has been engaged to furnish engineering services for the project
and specialist consultants would be recruited for organization and management
of TDA, research, extension and credit institutions.
4.02      The project works, details of which are given in Annex 4, would
include:
(a)  Wadi Zabid (Hap 10125)
ti) construction of 10 diversion weirs with gaLe-controlled
intakes, sluiceways and associated river training works;
(ii)  improvement of over 120 km of existing canals and con-
struction of about 50 km of secondary catials;
(iii)  reconstruction of about 25 existing canal stractures
and construction of about 450 drop and regulating struc-
tures and field outlets;
(iv)  installation of a radio communication network connect-
ing five weather stations in the Wadi catchment to
stations in the project area; and
(v) construction of about 135 km of service and farm roads,
and about 20 small buildings in the project and catch-
ment area of the Wadi.
(b) Wadi Mawr (Map 10126 R)
(i) a feasibility study to determine the development poten-
tial of surface and groundwater for irrigating an area
of 60,000 ha; and
(ii) construction of an access road, building works including
housing, offices and other facilities for the project
staff.
Detailed Features
4.03      Wadi Zabid Irrigation System.  The new weirs, varying in length
from 30 to 150 m and in height from 0.6 to 1.7 m, would replace the tempo-
rary weirs which, at present, have to be reconstructed after each flood wash-
i.ut. Construction of gate-controlled intakes would regulate the entry of
water into the canals and protect the canals from flood damage. The sluice-
ways in the weirs would help reduce entry of gravel bed load into the canals.



- 113 -
The portions of canals that lie in the Wadi bed would be protected from floods
and the canal sections in the lower reaches would be rehabilitated. Drop
structures and regulators would be constructed on all canals to stabilize
canal regimes and to permit partial diversion of canal supplies into fields
through new turnouts. S=me of the canals would be extended and distributaries
would be added. The new works would permit a more efficient and equitable
distribution of water in the project area; would practically eliminate the
existing distribution system (para 3.09), thereby minimizing over-irrigation
and erosion problems at the head basin; and would release man and bullock
power currently used to make temporary checks and turnouts for deployment in
the field for improving production. Radio communication would furnish rain-
fall information to attendants at the diversion weirs, lpermitting a more ef-
ficierit regulation of the approaching flood supplies and minimizing wastage
of water. The service and farm roads would provide access to the diversion
weirs and canal structures for maintenance and also help the farmers to trans-
port their inputs and outputs.
4.04      Wadi Mawr Feasibility Study.  An access road would be constructed
from Sirdud to Azzohra in Wadi Mawr and a camp consistinig of housing and
office buildinigs with water supply and electricity would be constructed at
Azzohra. The feasibility study would include (a) soil and topographic sur-
veys and land classification for the study area (60,000 ha); (b) collection
and analysis of weather, stream flow and sediment data; (c) collection and
analysis of data on land tenure and sharing of costs and benefits between
owner and tenant; (d) planning and design of a surfc^e irri'gation system in-
cluding reconnaissance for a storage reservoir in the catchment; (e).geophysi-
cal surveys and groundwater explorations including the drilling, logging and
testing of up to 60 wells; (f) development and testing of successful wells;
(g) planning of typical farms to be irrigated from successful wells; (h) plan-
ning of a future groundwater development project utilizLng the potential indi-
cated by feasibility explorations; and (i) assessment of economic viability
of the proposed future surface and groundwater developments.
4.05      Agricultural Research and Extension.  The Tihama Development Autho-
rity (TDA) would assume operation of the research station established by
UNDP/FAO near the FAO camp in Wadi Zabid, and the Lowlanids research station
near Hodeidah.  The facilities at these stations would be expanded and the
program would concentrate on applied research and extension problems ol
farmers in the Tihama region (Annex 1).
4.06      Agricultural Credit.  The project would provide for the es-
tablishment of an Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) as a department in the
Central Bank (CB), which would initially serve the credit needs of the proj-
ect but which could be transformed into a national credit institution in the
future. ACF would provide loans to the farmers of Wadi Mawr for the purchase
of successful exploration wells installed by TDA as a part of the feasibility
study, and for the purchase and installation of pump-engine sets and on-farm
development of the area to be irrigated from such wells.. Loans would be pro-
vided to Wadi Zabid farmers for installation of up to 35 new tubewells and
for on-farm development. Farmers of both Wadis would also be eligible to



obtain loans from ACF for purchasing farm machinery and equipment; construct-
ing on-farm grain storage structures and farm-service centers; and short-
term credit for inputs. ACF would also provide loans for the establishment
of processing facilities such as a cotton gin and tomato conserving plant and
other similar agribusiness undertakings. Details are given in Chapter V and
Annex 5.
4.07      Consulting Services.  There is a shortage of suitably trained and
experienced engineers and managers in YAR. A consulting firm would there-
fore be required to assist TVA in preparation of designs, specifications
and tender documenti, and supervision of construction; and would train Yemeni
engineers and technicians in all phases of the work including operation and
maintenance of the weirs and other structures. Since the arrangements with
the previous consultant made available under UNDP/FAO/Kuwait Fund assistance
terminated in November 1972, Government wanted to appoint a consulting firm
as soon as possible. The Kuwait Fund, on behalf of Covernment, invited
proposals from various firms on the basi.s of terms of reference approved by
IDA. On Kuwait Fund's recommendation and after IDA's approval, Govermuent
employed Tipton and Kalmbachi of USA to provide the engineering services with
effect from March 1, 1973.  Until the proposed IDA credit becomes effective,
the new consulting firm would be paid by the Kuwait Fund and after effecti-
veno.is, I)A v'ould r.?inburse the foreign exchange costs of the firr:to the
r1uwait FiinJ.  T!xe consultiag firm would bepin work in April 1973.  Ter;s tit
reference for thie firm are givea in Annex P.
4.08      The project would provide an experienced management and technical
advisor and a financial advisor and would also furnish specialist consultants
for agricultural research, extension and credit. The two advisors would be
employed for about four years. For research and extension, two or three
specialists would be employed for a total of about eight m2n-years. Two
specialists would also be provided for agricultural credit for a total of
six man-years. In addition, provision has been made for short-term consul-
tancy for a total of one man-year to assist borrowers in preparing feasibility
reports for investments in a cotton gin, tomato conserving plant and other
similar undertakings. Details are given in Annex 6.
4.09      Water Supply, Demand and Distribution.  The existinig irrigation
system utilizes the base flow and the successful diversions from the Wadi
floods by means of primitive weirs. The project would provide permanent
weirs at the existing locations, which would increase the availability of
flood waters for irrigation to thte extent that such structures avoid and
reduce wastage of water. The provision of gated canal regulators, extension
of canals, and construction of regulating structures and field turnouts would
improve the distribution of water in the field basins, and would bring an
additional 1,500 ha under spate irrigation. The water availability for the
project depends on the occurrence of timely rainfall in the tWtadi catchment,
data on which are extremely limited.  Hlowever, by correlating the Wadi flows



- 12 -
with similar wadis in Saudi Arabia and People's bemocratic Republic of Yemen,
the annual. flows likely to occur in Wadi Zabid in five years out of ten have
been estimated and the project benefits have been based on this data. De-
tails are given in Annex 2.
4.10      Construction Schedule.  Project planning and detailed design of
the works would begin in April 1973. The buildings and roads in Wadi Zdbid
would be put to tender soon after the IDA credit becomes effective. Contract
documents for Wadi Zabid irrigation works should be ready by Mtarch 1974.
The contract should be awarded by July 1974 and construction should start by
October 1974 with completion by March 1977. At Wadi Mawr, the consulting
firm would start work simultaneously and the feasibility report should be
completed by June 1976. Detailed construction and work schedules for both
Wadis Zabid and Mawr are given in Annex 7 (Charts 7171(R),, 7170(R)).
4.11      Cost Estimates.  The estimated cost of the project (including
estimated impact of US dollar devaluation) would be US$17.5 million (YRls
78.8 million), of which the foreign currency cost would be US$10.9 million.
The cost estimate, based on unit costs obtained from local contractors and
othet relevant sources, is given in Annex 8 and is summarized belov.



- 13 -
YRIs Millio >                 US$ Million-         FoTeign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total  Exchange
Wadi Zabid
Civil Works         11.3      16.2      27.5    2.6        3.6        6.2        59
Land Acquisition   0.5           -       0.5    0.1           -       0.1         -
Equipment            0.1       1.9       2.0        -      0.4        0.4        96
Engineering and
Administration   6.1         7.8      13.9    1.4        1.7       3.1         56
Subtotal         18.0      25.9      43.9    4.1        5.7       9.8        59
Wadi Mawr
Civil Works          2.1       1.4       3.5    0.5        0.3       0.8         41
Equipment            0.1       2.6       2.7       -       0.6        0.6        97
Engineering and
Administration   2.4         3         6.3    0.5        0.9        1.4        62
Subtotal          4.6       7.9      12.5    1.0        1.8       2.8        63
Agricultural Credit  3.3         9.0       12.3    0.7        2.0       2.7        73
Total            25.9      42.8      68.7    5.8        9.5      15.3         62
Contingencies
Physical /b          2.3       3.4       5.7    0.5        0.7        1.2        60
Price /c             1.5       2.9       4.4    0.3        0.7        1.0        66
Subtotal          3.8       6.3      10.1     0.8       1.4       2.2        63
GRAND TOTAL    29.7        49.1      78.8    6.6       10.9      17.5         62
/a  Discrepencies due to rounding
/b  At 10X of cost except Agricultural Credit.
/c At 5-1/2% per annum compounded.
4.12       The proposed schedule of capital expenditure, given in Annex 8,
Page 2, is summarized below:
Year                  72/73   73/74   74/75   75/76   76/77           Total
S --------  USS milio…l -----------------
Local                  0.1      1.3      1.6      2.2       1.4        6.6
Foreign                0.1      2.2      3.5      3.3       1.8       10.9
Total                  0.2      3.5      5.1      5.5       3.2       17.5



-14-
4.13      Financingj.  IDA would finance the foreign exchange cost of US$10.9
million, which is about 62Z of total project costs.  The financing plan would
be as follows:
A of
YRls riillion   US$ million   Project Costs
IDA Credit                49.1            1'.9            t!
Governoenta/.uwait
Fund                   26.7              a.9            34
ACT 3orrowers              3.0             0.7              4
lotal               76.8             17.5          '100
The Kuwait Funct, which had already contributed to the financing of tne feasibi-
lity study for develop:ient of Wadi Zabid, had from tne start declared its firm
intention to assist Goveniment in finan,.ing ttie project.  Durin,; negotiations,
the Kuwait Fund representatives star-d that the Fund would assist Government
in financin' local project costs by lendinig tIp to US$6.0 -illion oquivalent on
terms similar to IDA but with a servicc charge of 1/2%'.  The conclusion of
an agreement between Government and the Kuwait Fund for thi.s loan Ls a co;..ition
of effectiveness.  The Kuwait Fund would also bear the cost: of the consultin!
tirn for about five monti-s, fror its c;'ploynient date of M4arch 1, 1973 to the
credit cffectiveness date, after which ILIA would reimburse the forei4n e-:c-inarie
cost of the firm for this period to tihe irUW:iit Fund.
4.14      Procurement.  Local. contractors, e;<perienced in building construc-
tion, have n1o experience of hydraulic works.  The irrigation .works in Aradi
Zabid would therefore: be co-7zined ifito one contract (estimated cost US05.34
million), for whic;i bids would be ii:vited rron international contractors.
Separate contracts would be prepareu lor buildings at l1adi Zabid (US$U.33
r.illion) and Wadi.2iawr (US$0.21 million), and for ttie road works at Wadi Zabid
(US$0.45 million) and Wadi Mawr (US$0.40 uillion), and bids would be invited
trom prequalified local bidders (Annex 9, page 1). The building and road
works are srall, located at several isolated sices, and their construction is
scattered over tire, therefore internatiornal competitive bidding would be
ir,.practical for these works. The drilling, casing, and testing of wells at
Wadi 'awr (cost US$0.17 million without casing i-aterial), as a part of thu
Froundwater feasibilitv study, would not be suited to contracting and would
be performied by TDA on force account tinder the consulting firm's supervision.
The drilling of wells in Wadi Zabid would be done either hyb local contractors
or by TDA with the ric: procured under the project.
4.15      The cost of equipment to be procured under the project amounts to
US$1.04 million - US$0.45 riillion for Wladi Zabid and US$0.59 million for ;ladi
Mawr - and is listed in Annex 9, page 2.  Out of this list, equipment cost-
ing US$0.85 rillion would be procured by international competitive bidding;



-15-
the balance, consisting of specialized instruments and equipment of small
value, would be procured either locally or abroad by direct purchase. Equip-
ment Items financed by ACF and costing in excess of US$10,000 each would also
be procured by international competitive bidding. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that procedures used for international tendering and
awarding of construction and procurement contracts would be consistent with
Ii)A's Cuidelines.
4.16      Disbursements.  The proposed IDA credit of US$10.9 million would be
disbursed, net of taxes, over five years including retroactive financing of
riot more than US$130,000 of foreign exchange expenditure of the consuilting
firm as follows:
Civil Works                     -    The actual foreicn exchange costs of foreLiqT
(LS$3.92 i:dillion)                   contractors and 42% of total costs for local
contractors or force account work.
:quiplent and :aterials         -    The CIF cost of directlv imported goods and
(US$1 .flO million)                   30% of total costs of imported goods pur-
chased fromt local agents.
Ttchknical Services             -    The foreif.n exchange costs of the consult-
(tfS,-2.5)3 oillion)                 ing firn, specialist consultants, advisors
and overseas training.
ef,ricultural Credit            -    75, of payments made by Agricultural Credit
(CS$2.00 million)                    Funcl against loans to its borrowers.
Aishurse:.ent requests would be supported by full dccure!itation, except tor
;orce account .erK and for loans less tnan USs30,100 equivalent trade to
farrners tucner a-ricultural credit, which would boe disbursed against a state-
inent of expenditures, the supporting documents of which would be retainedi
Jy Lile executing agency d,id be available for review by pr..ject supervision
*assions.  Increases in cost woulcd he met from thc. unallocated cateqorv
(US$1.40 -.i] 1ion).  AUl s,;vln"s after completion of tOin  orojece would be
cancelleti.  A schedule of Sinnual expenlit-ires is riven in Annex 8.  An
estiinated quarterly dishursement sched,e is presentee in Anflex 10.
4.17      Accoulnts and Aiudit.  T:)A would maintain separate accounts of costs
ircnrrred for investrent i.- Wadis Zabid and Mawr, and for operation and mzain-
tenance of completed wcrks.  Project ciiar es collected on accouant of invest-
'ient cost and operation and !:aintenance cost would also he recorded separately.
ACF would mr.aintain two accounts--one for funds utilize] for ireditum- and long-
ter-. loans, and the other 'nr short-terr loins.  All accotnts  aintained by
TDA and ACF wotuld liave re-ular internal audits with annual audits carried out
by indepesndet1L auditors acceptable to IDA.  Durins nerotiations, assurances
were obtained that: (a) separate accoutnts would be -aintained for nroject
fuinds by TDA ind ACF, which wouldl be auditeu annaally by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; and (b) a cony of each ;atudit would he sent to IDA wit,)in
four mlontts of the close of each fiscal year.



-16-
V.  ORGAUINZATIt  AD MANAGEn.NT
The Tihana Developirent Authority
j.01      Government has no establishedi institution or trained and experi-
enced administrative and technical personnel qualified to execute tne vroj-
ect or to provide services to develop institutions for agricultural research,
extension and credit.  Govern-ent would establish the Tihama Developmenit
Authority (TDA) with appropriate powers and adninsitrative arranS,eraents to
execute the project.  Draft legislation to set up TDA has been agreed with
IDA and Coveninent has heen urged to enact this legislation as quickly as
nossible.  Lnactvuent of this le,islatien is a condition of Board presentation.
5.02      Government would no:.ainate a Boari of Directors, wiLth a Chairman and
members, to determine the policies of TDA. One of the members would be a
representative of the governor of the Central bank.  The Chairman of thie roard
would also be the Ceneral Manager of TDA aind wouldi he assisted by two Advisors,
ore of whom would be an expert in organization and manaieer,ent and the other a
financial expert.  The annnintrent of the Chairman-General Manager and the
Advisors wolid be riutuallv accentable to the dorrower and I11A and the appoint-
azient of tne former is a condition of effectiveness.  An Assistant .ana-:er,
aso acceptable to ITA, would be appointei an.t would be trained by tile
.eneral  .anater and the Advisors.  Dur4yg ne-otiations, assurances were
obtained to this effect.
3.03      TDA's organization and le,al powers, including ability to letermine
emolarients a;nd conditions of servic- to attract staff, are shown in Annex (6
and Chart 7172 (21) attached thereto.  In addition t, the above "anagerial statf
TDA would iiave tiree technical directors, an .administrative officer anti othier
suoporting staff.  The consultin,; tinr. and specialist consultants ior research,
extension and credit woul1i be provide,, with adequate couniterpart staff.  It is
estiriated tnat a r.,inimum of 1() enFineers, S agricultural ,rauuaces, ; account-
amts/credit officers, 24 enngineerin{ and agricultuxral assistants and 3ii skilled
technicians would be required for project e.ecution.  Since YAR is short of
trained technical staff, assurances were obtaived (iuring, negotiations thaL
all IDA directorates and ACF would be adequately staffed and the consultanits
and specialists for TDA and ACF would tie provideel with necessary counterpart
staff.
5.04      Eventually TDA would have peneral responsibility for the overall
development of agriculture in the Tiharia, but initially its primary function
should he restricted to the execution of this project including the related
activities of agricultural researchi and e:.Cension.  During the project con-
struction period TDA should not have responsibility for other development
nrojects in the Tihama, and during negotiations assurances ttere obtained tnat,
during the project construction period, 'iDA would not be burdened twitii the
execution of other projects in the Tinama without prior concurrence of I)A.



-17-
!aicltural Research and Exten'sion
-).(S    'Two or three consulta.it specialists for a total of about eigiht  an-
years would tbe rrovided Co assist and advise TDi. in its research and extension
activities.  These specialists would train the local staff and would also pro-
vide technical guidance for ACF's lending activities. nuring niegotiations,
assurances were obtaine;d that (a) tnese specialists would be er.ployed on
terms andl conditions acceptable to IDA; and (b) within nine rnorths of credit
eirectiveness TDA would subni, to  l3A for its co ments, proposals for the
oleration of the aericultural research and exteision service and ,or tie
training of the atricultural staff and tne nroject area farmers.
Agricultural Credit Fund
5. 06     Establishiient.  Coverni.ent s :-seerness to establish a national agri-
culttiral cr'roit institution in YAR is indicated by two attenpts; made in 1969
and 1971, wiicih failed to materialize due tc lack of funds and of  rained
staff.  The project, by furnishing adequate fLnds, necessary expertise and
trainito; te local staff, would provide an opportunity te realiZe Covernment's
objective thLrough th- establishment of a st all credit-banking unit (ACF) with-
in the Cenitral bank.  ACF would be established by Governrent, under a sub-
sirliary arireenent with the Central bank, upon terms and conditions to he
rtpprovcd Pv IDA, soon after credit effectiveness; and diuring neFotiations
assurances were obtained that ACF would he set up prior to January 1974.  ACF
wotuld initially li-it its operations to the project areas but after a few
years would develop thp competence to serve any future project and could even-
tually expand into a national institution.
0.f)7   Tihe a-ricultiiral credit corponeTnt of the project (US$3.33 million)
would furnish r-ediu.L- and long-terta loans (US$3.18 *illion) for investments
in agricultural development and short-term production loans (US$0.15 million)
to the farmers of Wadis Zabid and Mawr.  It would also extend loans to agri-
,husiness firms established in the project areas for installation of processing
aid rarketing; facilities. ACF's capital would be Provided by a loan from
(;overnment of YRls 3.0 million (US$0.665 million), in three installments -
the first for YTils 0.75 million (US$0.165 million) to be nade available upon
establishlment of ACF and the other two installments for YPRIs 1.125 .iillion
(USSO.25 aillion) each, 12 and 24 months after its establishment.  This loan
would be for a term of 15 years with five years grace, at 4,' i1,terest. With-
in three years of commencement of ACF's operations, Government would decide
in consultation with IDA as to whether the above resources should be retained
by ACF as a loan or converted into share capital towards the esitablishment
of a national agricultural credit institution.  Baring negotiations, assurances
were obtained to this eftect.
5.03      Lending Policies.  The lending operations and nrocedures of ACF
would be in accordance with a Policy Statement to be issued by C3 (Appendix
5-1). Loans would be extended to project area farmers and persons or enti-
ties engaged in agriculture-related activities within the prCject areas or
whose husiness is Cependent on the agricultural nroduction from the project
areas. The borrowers would contribute at least 20% of the investment cost and



ACF wotild finance tl-,r balace.  The credit would reimburse only 75' of loans
made bv ACF.  ACF, FoLlowing studies by the credit specialists, wouldl clkar)e
interest r.ites whiich would be reasonably in line wtith prevailin, raites for
snorr-, reditun- and l'1.i-tern  loans for similar ptirposes made hv cor.m.rcial
bai-ks, currently 9 to I 1-.¾  ACF wottlid be eP.pected to be self-suffis ient on
thie basis of rarvins earne-, on iLs iotcdinc operations (Annex 5, Table 1).
IL was a:;reei durinc( oe-otiatiois 'il.1t VfGovrn-ent wnuld review its lendici-
terns to C1 if co-ipetitive intercst rates .pro.ed i'isufficient to cover
operating; costs.  Loans in eoccss of USS3(,0l?  equivalent, or loans [or
processinrf and stora;-e ;acilit[es, would rcqttir.  orior concurrel.re of I)A,
and ' ring r'e otiaLtions, an .ssur.nce wa1s obt-iinel to this ettect.  rhe
agricultural credit co;:poie'nt of the 1'.A credit v;ould not he :!isbursed intil
Coverrw.ent hIad estabhlis!is! ACF witti-i:! uLO  Central i3ank, with arran,e::ents
and procedures acceptable to IDA Lrr fundin-, on-lendin: , loan supervisin,
interest rates and accounting-.  Ma:i.unt reoayr.ent 2eriod for loans ::ade
by *ACF would vary fro-m seven to tfn years ircludi"- two years :,race.
5.09       Tubewell Loans.  At :ladi  !'avr, thie N'oIuidwaLer feasibility stu.Jy
would result in the installation of ibout ') plroructive wells,  !acii capable
of irrigating an average of about 40  na.  T!)A would specify thle pump-en,jue
sets to bo installed on these wells.  TOA would also c.irry out IanJ1 icvelin_
requirea on the area to be strved .v cach well, lay out the  or;-is, construct
tce water distribuLion syste-  and transfer tl.e well :ilonp with the dt-veloped
facilities to ACF for sale to the lan.ovwoer onm _retit .  The investment cost
for t'he well, pupmp-e.: i;:i   set and on--fan.t !oveloprent would b- calculatced .y
'[TA in each case nut tile .verar,e cost is esti: iatei! to be !bout U;$2r1, ))iJ -"-r
well.  During ne,-otiritioiis, assurances we;re obt:iined that within  ri1  noniEhs
ol credit effecriveness a plan would b, sibnitte.l to IDA for ;'anproval outlin-
ino  the procedures ro be followed by llDA and ACF for (a) sale of the tubtwells
to fa-irmers, and (b) recovery trori farnrrs OL ,r-farn  levelonment costs.  ACF
would also provide loans to farmers in '.4a'ii Zabid to neet up to  0,W0 of tiie
cost of about 3S tubewel]s (complete with p nap-en-ine sets), .and for on-farm
develoniment.  These tubewells wouls re-olace Lhe e.;isting shallow wzells and
provide sunplenentary water to those Areas wihich lo not receive assured irri-
gation from the Wadi spates.  Durin2 ne-otiations, assurances were ..btained
that prior to undertakInp installation of tubewells in 1'adi Zahid or ,rarntin;g
ansy credit for such work, a   -lan of tithewell installation would he prepared
with the zissistance of t!ie consultants annl subrzittecl to IDA for review.
5.10       Management.  The agricultural cridit component of the project would
be executed by C., throuvh ACF.  For about the first three years ACF would be
managed by two av-ricu:lturpl crte;it specialists, who would be e.iployed by Ce
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.  (ne of these specialists would be
the M1anager of ACF and wculd report directly to the  -overnor of C3 aid the
other would serve as Fielid 'Ia.naer.  The specialists would train1 suitably
qualified Yerneni counterparts in all aspects of ajrricultural c redit to enable
them to assunie management responsibilities.   During negqotiations, assurances
were obtainLed that two creiit specialists would :be er.ployed for ACF on teri,s
.and conditions satisfactory to IDA;  and that their Yemerni cotnterparts
would have quaLificrtions anJ experience acceptable to IDA.  The two credit
specialists would advise aud assist CB in setting up ACF and in formulating



_  9 -
policies and procedures for the organization and management of ACF. They
would also set up training programs for ACF's staff at all levels. The two
specialists would also assist Government in planning the future transformation
of ACF into a permanent national agricultural credit institution.
5.11      The Field Manager of ACF would supervise credit operations in Wadis
Zabid and Mawr through two credit agents - one for each Wadi. An accountant
would keep all accounts under direct supervision of the Field Manager. Pro-
posed organization of ACF is shown in Chart 7410 of Annex 5. Coordination of
ACF's activities with TDA would be achieved at three levels: by representation
of CB's governor on TDA's Board of Directors; by liaison between Nax.ager, ACF
and General Manager, TDA and by a very close working relationship between
Fteld Manager, ACF and Directors for Groundwater and Agriculture, TDA. ACF's
Field Manager would also liaise with the Cotton General Company in matters
relating to short-term production credits.
Trainin!i
5.12      Since YAR is short of trained personnel in project-reLated fields,
tunds have been included in the project estimate to cover the cost of provid-
ing overseas training to suitably qualified and selected Yememis in the fields
of irrigation engineering, agricultural research, extension and crediL. The
overseas trAirnng would take the form of short visits of three to six months
duration to enable basically qualified staff in the above fields to acquLre
experience in organizations engaged in similar work. The foreign exchange
cost of overseas tr,.ining would be financed by the credit. In addition, con-
sultants would provide in-service training to the Yemeni staff of TDA and ACF.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that selection of candidates
for overseas training would be made, in consultation with IDA, and that ar-
rangements would be made with the consultants to carry out in-service tratuling
of TDA ar.d ACF personnel.
5.13      Under the Bank's proposed Firit Education Project, an agricultural
training center, to be established at Ibb in the Highlands. would train annu-
ally about 90 extension agents, 12 animal health assistant., 30 young farmer
trainees, 10 in-service trainees and 200-300 adult farmiers' short course
trainees. Extension agents, trained at this center, would become available
soon after completion of the project and could be employed by T'DA for promot-
ing extension activities in the project areas.
Operation and lMaintenance
5.14      At present, the Itinistry of Agricul-ire has no responslbility for
operating or maintaining the existing irrigation svstem in Wadi Zabid and
operation and maintenance is carried out by farmers under the leadership of
the water masters.  The water masters ensure that the canals withdraw water
in accordance with established water rights, call for .armers' labor contri-
bution when the diversion weirs are washed out and organize maintenance work
as necessary.  After construction of the project works, TDA would assume tae
responsibility for operating and maintaining them. The consulting firm would



- 20 -
train the TDA staff for this responsibility during the construction period
and would also prepa:e operating rules for the new works. The consulting
firm would prepare a new plan for distribution of available water among various
canals and during negotiations, assurances were obtained that the present
system of canal water rights would be replaced by a new system.
5.15      The estimated annual cost of operation and maintenance of the im-
proved irrigation system in Wadi Zabid is about US$112,000 (Annex 8, Page 3).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that after project comple-
tion TDA would have, at all times, adequate funds to operate iand maintain
the improved system of irrigation in Wadi Zabid and the extension services.
Project Evaluation
5.16      The realization of project benefits depends on the lproject's timely
execution and the adoption of improved agricultural practices by farmers.
The feasibility st-idy at Wadi Mawr provides for the economic evaluation of the
tubewells. At Wadi Zabid, the impact of the project works should be evalu-
ated. During negotiations, assurances were obtainecl that a plan, ac-
ceptable to IDA, would be prepared that would monitor and evaluate water use
and all aspects of agricultural production including land tenure in the pro-
ject area, and that the approved plan would be put into effect promptly.
Recovery of Project Costs
5.17      In YAR, all existing irrigation systems are owned, ,operated and
maintained by local communities, with practically no contribution from Gcv-
errment.  As such there has been no system of collect'ng water charges for
the maintenance of publicly owned irrigation faciliO-s.  Under the law estab-
lishing -A, the Wadi Zabid irrigation system would be taken over by TDA and
would be improved under the projecr. TDA would also be empowered to levy
and collect project charges f,om the beneficiaries. In order to recover full
investment costs at Wadi Zabid over the project life of 50 years, with no
interest, it is estimated that a project charge of YRls 70 per cropped hec-
tare would have to be levied on all landowners including lessees of waqf land
within the spate-irrigated area. Also, to recover the annual operation and
maintenance costs, a project charge of YRls 30 per hectare per annum would
have to be levied over the whole project area, which will be shared between
the landowners/leaseholders and the tenants in the ratio that other costs are
shared between them. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the project charges would be collected by TDA from the project beneficiaries
at rates to be agreed witn IDA, with a view to recovering full investment
costs without interest, and annual operation and maintenance costs. Recovery
of project charges would comnence after one year's grace following project
completion.  On a 240 lha f      L.. ,I ; i. ject uharges would amount to about 9.5%
of net farm income and about 17% of iacremental income, while on a 1.5 ha
farm, the project charges would be 12.4% of net farm income and 22% of incre-
mental income (Annex 11).
5.18      Iith the above level of project charges levied on beneficiaries, the
project would result in a Government subsidy to project fa-mers having a pre-



- 21 -
sent value of about YRls 36.7 million (US$8.2 million), or 76% of investment
costs measured by discounting the operation and maintenance costs, investments
(including physical and price contingencies), and revenues over the project
lifetime, at 10%. Although only 24% of costs are to te recovered, this is
considered reasonable in view of the low living standard of Lenant farmers in
the project area, and the level of yields expected under the project. While
the application of more progressive project charges for the few wealthy land-
owners could be justified, it would be impractical under the current political
and social conditions based on the centuries-old tribal system.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARMERS' INCOME
Production
6.01      In Wadi Zabid project area, present production from 22,800 ha of
cropped area consists of about 4,240 tons of seed cotron, 12,930 tons of
cereal grains (sorghum, millet and maize), 400 tons of oilseeds (mainly
sesame) and 3,000 tons of other crops (onions, tomatoes, other vegetables
and melons) and is valued at YRls 9.9 million. The future production with-
out project from a cropped area of about 23,800 ha would be about 6,300
tons of seed cotton, 15,500 tons of cereal grains, 790 tons of oilseeds and
4,700 tons of other crops and is valued at YRls 13.8 million.
6.02      Since the cropping intensity would rise to an average of 150%, the
project would result in an increase in the net cropped area in Wadi Zabid
to 25,600 ha. At full development, which would be achieved in about ten
years following project completion, the vyilds would increase by about 50%
for maize and oilseeds, 70% for sorghum and millet, 90% for cotton and 100%
for the other crops. The future production with and without the project
vould be as follows:
Future Cropped Area           Fulture Production
Without      With     Without       With
Project    Project   Project    Proiect   Incremental
-----'000 ha----           --     '000 tons------------
Seed cotton                  5.0         6.4        6.3        11.5          5.2
Sorghum                     10.7        10.4        9.7        15.9          6.2
Millet                       4.2         2.5        2.6         2.7          0.1
Maize                        2.2         3.5        3.2         7.3          4.1
Oilseeds                     1.2         1.9        0.8         1.8          1.0
Others (vegetables)          0.5         0.9        4.7        13.8          9.1
6.03       In Wadi Mawr there is presently very little agricultural activity
in those areas where tubewells are to be installed as a part of the feasi-
bility study. It has been assumed that about 500 ha out of the 2,000 ha to



- 22 -
be commanded by the 50 tubewells is under rainfed millet crop and produces
about 200 tons.  At full development, in about seven years, this 2,000 ha
at 170% intensity would produce 2,800 tons of seed cotton, 2,680 tons of
cereal grains, 400 tons of oilseeds and 3,200 tons of other crops.
Market Prospects
6.04      YAR exports cotton, but it is a net importer of cereals, fruits
and vegetables, tobacco, sugar and other agricultural products. 'he agri-
cultural output of the project, except cotton, would be domestically consumed
either as subsistence foodgrai.ns or as import substitution. No surplus in
these items is expected due to the project. The total cotton production of
the project would contribute an insignificant portion of the world cotton
trade volume and would not pose any marketing problem. The details of mar-
ket prospects and farmgate prices used for evaluation of farmers' incomes and
project economic benefits are presented in Annex 12.
Farmers' Income
6.05      The farm budgets, showing the project's impact on the income of the
farmers in the project area, are presented in Annex 11. As summarized in the
following table, the average farm income with the project in the privately
held lands in Wadi Zabid would roughly double the income witlhout the project.
For a 1.5 ha owner-operated farm, the incremental net income after payment of
project charges (22%' of inLremental net income and 12.4Z of net farm income)
would be 100%. of the without project net income. For a 240 ha tenant-operated
farm, the incremental net income after payment of project charges (17% of in-
cremental net income and 9.5% of net farm income) would be 108% of the with-
out projert net income.  Of this, the owner's share would be 125% of without
project net income, while each of the 26 tenants would get an increase of 88%
over their previous income.  In Wadi Mlawr, over YRls 70,000 (US$16,000) would
accrue from every 40 ha tubewell farm, currently subject to a negligible agri-
cultural production. Assuming each tubewell farm would be cultivated by five
tenants, about YRls 5,000 (US$1,100) would become the share of each tenant
while the owner's share would be YRls 47,100 (US$10,460).



- 23 -
Farmers' Income (Income Without Project Shown in Parentheses)
Wdadi Zabid Area                    Wadi Mavr Area
Privately Owned    Tenant-Operated
1.5 ha Farm         240 ha Farn           E0 ha Tubewell Farm
___________________…__ _y. s… ----------------------------
Gross value of             1,830             401,300                   113,420
farm output                (750)           (204,040)                   (1,300)
Production costs             370             148,520                    40,140
excluding family           (110)            (93,880)                     (210)
labor
Net farm incone            l,h60             252,780                    73,280
before project             (6h0)           (110,160)                   (1,090)
charges
Project charges              180              23,860                         -
Net farm income            1,280             228,920                    73,280
.after project
charges
Incremental net              640             118,760                    72,190
income after
project charges
/a                        A
Owner's share of             6ho              73,530                    E7,090
incremental income
Precent increase             100                 125              Not Applicable
over withoutt
project income
Tenants' share of              -              45,230                    25,100
incremental income
Number of teinants             -                  26                         5
Tncremental income             -               1,140                     5,020
per tenant
Precent increase               -                  8b              Not Applicable
over without
project incomc
/a  Owner's share 3/4 of gross production from well-irrigated land
and 2/3 from other land.
/b Owner's share 3/4 of gross production.



-24-
VII. SINF.FITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Benefits
7.01       The i-irrove-ent aiid eoteilsion of tne existinl. irri'ation works at
Wadi Zabid and the provision of a-rictiltural inputs and services tulder the
project would bring :'toderi a,-riculLuirt to soere 17,)() h!a, which, has been sub-
ject to low cronpin,4 i:,Le.isity and yieldIs for centuiries.  The miajor quantifi-
able economaic bene.its fro-m  L!hc !iroJecL wouli be the significant increase in
aoricultural output W Iienl woulJ result in nig,her incomle and t:eployment oppor-
tunities for some 3,7('0 farM  fa-'ilies aad 2,500 laniless farm  laborers in tile
area.  The Wadi .tavr fea7sibiliLy study would produce technicall and economic
data to facilitate    it r   ir vesti ent i: about (O, OG0O ha cturrently identified
-as one of the areas navir   major ccsh ar,  cereals nrop developrent  lotential,
and woul(i also result in about .)0 tuhowk] ls.  The tubewell irri-;aLinl to 'be
provi leo tnrour1h credit at  aJi ;'awr woull het.efit  , 000 ha operatedt by about
50 landholders aXnd ab(ouzt 2,1ti Li I-U;ts bY bri'irninr a substantial ag,,ricultural
production to lands of very Low  '-odlictivitv.  Investment itn service -nd larm
roads andi a co raunications  1L'twork in ti: project .irea would irprove farmers'
living conditions i:: a'litical Lc  servinl- tneir iiinediate -roject needs.  The
demionstration effects, insti'tutioa-hu;iJlIiin- and trainint. clements ot this first
r.ajor irrigation dev-elon:-ent ,projo t in Y'LR would contribute to the accelera-
tion of agricultural develop-ei:t bi  relievinr~ sorne of the most serious dlevelop-
rment constraints - t;k  iack oi tef:nical ;ai -i am;i'erial mianpower anid viablc
public institutiolns.
7.02       At full develol-e'mc i!l year 15, the a;muaal gross value of far  nro-
ducticn in .iadi Zabil in;  adi aiTWt, LsLi:-ated  at the w>orld maarket trices
adjustec to farmaat#2 vaJl es, woul%' be incieascd f'om t'ie current YiIs 10 rnil-
lion  (US$2.2 mtillion) to Y'ls 3J  illion  (US$7.1  illion).  This ariounts to
miore tnan doublin.; tnie wnricu.lttiral proiuction orojected for that year withk-
out project.  Alter de tictin- tCi  social cost nf nroduction, thle increnental
value of the project s ainot an.:ial ,:rodniction at full dvvelopment woulcl be
aibout Y;'ls 14.6 million (VS$3.2 ,-.llirsn).  Not  na:lnual foreign exchange earn-
irtgs front the increased  sale of cotton anld cottoiiseed could be US$1.6 million.
The nroject would  ilso contribute tn the agricultural irmport sub,titution
efforts of YAR tnrough increase' cereals and other tood output.
Lcononic Rate of Rc/turn
7.03       The projecr s econo-ic rate of return, costing Wadi Mtawr feasibility
study and; hired labor and shndow-pricin-g family iahor contribution to zero,
is esti- ated at 13"'.  :J'hen the .Ca'ii 'awr feasibility ccosts are excluded, tile
rate would bp about 1;;;.  Sen'-itivity tests snow ttlit tihe economic viability
of the project is reasonably secure even whenl Lthe Wadi Mawr feasibility costs
are included.  A 20: upward aad downw,ird variation  in incremental net bene-
fits from the riost probable leVel woull result in economic rates of return
of 15 and lUl,;, resuectively; vhereas 11,U reduction of investment costs anld
10., overrun would result in  14 anoi 127, respectively.  i.ven whetv an unlikely
201. reduction in the net incrar-ental berne)its and( 10)% costs overrun are comT-
bined, the rate of returii would u.:cecd 'i:7.  When the ,;Wadi 'lawr feasibi lity



- 25 -
costs are excluded from the project investment costs, the above. most pessi-
mistic assumption on benefits and costs variation would still result in an
economic rate of return of not less than 11,.  Details of the economic ana-
lysis are presented in Annex 13.
7.04      Because the project wiould not bring changes in land tenure and
ownership, there would be no significant degree of direct redistribution of
benefits. However, the project benefits would accrue to all farm population
proportionally to the existing farm operation, which would result in absolute
increase in all farmers' income. In relative terms, project benefits would
result in a significant increase in the welfare of small farners and landless
laborers, who are currently living at subsistence level.
Ecology
7.05      It is unlikely that the proposed project would significancly alt.
the ecology of the area, bur some minor changes might ensue,  There are no
records on the incidence and severitv of diseases in the Tihama, but it is
known that pulmonary tuberculosis is a problem, that malaria is endemic, ard
that schistosomiasis is found in some locations. Wind erosion is ever present,
and occasional wadi floods wreck water distribution systems and diminish pro-
ductivity. The project would provide no water storage nor increase in peren-
nial water flow, hence the schistosomiasis problem should Pot worsen.  How-
ever, with an improved water delivery system and increased groundwater sup-
plies malaria could increase. Consequently an assurance was obtained
during negotiations that the incidence of schistosomiasis and malaria in the
project area would be monitored during the life of project .an<, tl:at            m
would ensure that adequate control measures are carried out as necessary.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHIED AN'D RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on the
following points:
(a) procedures used for international tendering and award of
construction and procurement contracts would be in accord-
ance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published in April 1972
and revised in October 1972," and procurement of all equipment
and materials costing more than US$10,000 would be arranged
under these procedures (para 4.15);
(b)  separate accounts would be maintained for project funds by
TDA and ACF and audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; and a copy of each audit would be sent to
IDA within four months of the close of each fiscal year (para
4.17);



-26-
(c)  a nanagement advisor and a finan-cial  advisor would be
ermployed on terms and1 conditions acceptable to IPA; and
an Assistant Manager of TDA, acceptable to 1:DA, would be ap-
pointed (para 5.02);
(d)  all TDA directorates and ACF would be adequately staffed and
the consultants and specialists would be provided withit neces-
sary staff (para 5.03);
(e)  _urint, the project construcxtion period, TDA would nrit be
burdened with the ev)ecution of other projects in thet Tihana
without prior concurrence of [1DA (para 5.04);
(f)  specialist const:ltants for research and rxtension would be
e:--ployed on ter's ant conditions ;.cceptable to IDA; and
within nine rnont,is of credit effectiveness TOA would submit
to IDA for cornents, proposals for the operation of the agri-
cultural research and e:xtension service and for the training
of the a.vricultural staff and the project area farners (para
5.05);
(g)  for establishi-ip ACF in the Central i3ank, as soon as -possible
butt not ilter than January 1974, Government would enter into a
s'rbsidi:arv loa;, ui.rve eeat withi the Central 3ank %ipon terms md
conditions to iie approved by IPA, and undler this 3greerment would
loan -In amount oi Y     J.s 3.] nillion (tTSS0.665 -A11ion) in three
install..encs - tic  first of YPRs 0.73 nillion on establishment of
ACF antd tne oth;er Lwf ef YRis 1.125 -illion each, 12 ;ind 24
months after estabLislimeat.  Governrent would review its lending
terms to the Central Z.3nk i F cnapetitive interest rates charged
by ACF proved insufficient to cover its operating costs; -and
within three years of commencement of ACF's operations would
decide, in consultation wit.d [UA, vihether the resources provide
to ACF would be retained as a lon ,-term Ioaii or iheld as share car-i-
tal towards thc establishment of a national a,;ricultural credit
institution (paras 5.06, 5.07 and 5.03);
(h)  vrior concurrence of IDA would be obtained' hy ACF ifor grantino;
loa;ls in excess of 1JS$30,H00O equivalent or loans for processing
an.t storage facilities under agricultural credit (para 3.0.8);
(i)  within 18 months of credit effectiveness, a plan would oe
subrmitted to IDA [or approval outlining the procedures to
be followed bv TDA and ACF for (a) the sale of the tubewells
to farmers, and (b) recoverv from farmers of on-farm develop-
nent costs (para 5.09);
(j)  prior to undertakin,.. installation of tubewells in''adi Zabid
or granting any credit for sucic  work, a plan or tuhewell.
installation would be orepared witn the assistance of the
consultants and submitted to ID)A for review (para 5.09);



- 27 -
(k) specialist consultants for ACF would be employed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA; and that their Yeneni
counterparts would have qualifications and experience accept-
able to IDA (p3ra 5.10);
(1) selection of candidates for overseas training would be made,
in consultation with IDA, and that arrangements would be
made with the consultants to carry out in-service training of
TDA and ACF personnel (para 5.12);
(m)  the present system of canal water riphts In Wadi Zabid would
be replaced by a new system to be worked out by the consult-
ants (para 5.14);
(n)  after project completion, TDA would hiave, at all times, ade-
quate funds to operate and maintain the Improved system of
irrigation in Wadi Zabid and the extension services (para 5.15);
(o) a plan. acceptable to IDA, would be prepared that would moni-
tor and evaluate water use and all aspects of agricultural
production including land tenure in the project area and the
approved plan would be put into effect promptly (para 5.16);
(p) the project charges would be eollected from the project bene-
ficiaries in Wadi Zabid at rates to be agreed with IDA, with
a view to recovering full investment cost without interest,
and annual operation and maintenance costs (para 5.17); and
(q)  the incidence of sciistosomiasis and malaria in the project
area would be monitored durin.o the life cf the project and
that adequate control measures vould be carried out as neces-
sary (para 7.05).
S. 02     A condition of Board presentation i;. t,ke . ntct:e ilt of
legislation setting up TDA (para 5.01).
i.03      The following are the conli:.i .s of crudil offt.t .e.: s:
(a) an agreement between Government and the Kuwait Fund regarding
the financing arrangements of local project costs of US$5.9
million equivalent had been signed (para 4.13); and
(b)  the appointment, acceptable to IDA, of the Chairman of TDA's
Board of Directors and its General Manager had been made
(para :).02).
8.04      With the indicated agreements and fulfillment of the abovo condi-
tions, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.9 million under the
usual IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Government of tile Yemeni Arab
Republic.
March 27, 1973



ANNEX 1
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIEANM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture
General
2
1.        The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has an area of 190.COO km , of which
about 2 million ha is cropped and 2 million ha is rainfed pasture. In the
lowlands and the coastal plains there is some rainfed agriculture and pasture,
but about 0.2 million ha is irrigated mainly by priritive distribution of
wadi floods and also from low capacity hand-dug wells. The principal cash
crops are cotton, coffee and qat (a mild narcotic leaf that is chewed).
Cotton provides about half the value of exports ard is grown almost entirely
in the irrigated coastal plain.  AgricultUral output has not kept pace witt.
population prowth in part because of the recent civil war but mainly owing.
to a succession of dry years.
2.        The WZadi Zabid project area has a iavorahle climate for perennial
agriculture; arable lands suitable for irrigation; limited surface wat!i flows
and groundwater supplies, both of good quality; and an indufstrious rural
population seeking an improved standard of living.
Cliriate
3.        Meteorological data have been collected from stations in the
project area onlv since the latter part of 1969. !lean monthly minimum
tenperatures (Table 1) range from about 1W0C in December to 25'C in June,
the mean monthly maxima range from about 31°C in January to 45C in July,
and the diurnal variation ranges from 10C  te 15'C.
4.         Rainfall at the FAO camp (elevation 240 n) averaged 315 amm per
year for the two vears of record (Table 2), and at Zabid, 15 km to the
northwest (elevation 105 m), rainfall averaged 125 mm per year during the
same period. Dependable annual precipitation is likely to be lower, but
mean monthly dependable values cannot be estinated from the available data.
Table 3 gives rainfall data at six stations in Wadi Zabid catchment since
1970.
5.        The average annual wind speed is about 2 m/sec.  Sand and dust
storms occur frequently throughout the year, but are most common in late
summer.  Mean monthly humidity ranges from a low of about 50% in the summer
months to above 70% in winter. Evaporation from a lUSUB Class A Pan
(uncorrected for advected energy) at the FAO camp averaged 9 nmr per day and



A"'1NEX 1
Page 2
ranged from less than 5 to more than 15 mm per day; total. monthly evaporation
ranged from 180 mm in December and January to 400 mm in May, June and July,
and total measured evaporation in 1970 was 3,300 -mm.
Soils
6.        The Wadi Zabid area consists mostly of a widIe, fairly flat alluviil
fan formed bv flood deposition of mixed sediments an(' has a 1  to 0.s% east
to west slope.  The soils have relatively narrow rann'es in color, texture,
clay mineralogy, chemical and physical properties. There is little soil
profile development but much layering has occurredi due to freqiurnt depositicn
of silt by flood waters.  There are small areaq of sandy soils, loess (x.irnd-
deposited), and residual soils where flood. deposition has not been predominant.
7.        The soils are classed as Entisols (recent soils without profile
differentiation), and are light brown in color, have a hip,h silt conteoct
(most of them are silt loams), a moderate water-holding capacity, and are
low in organic ratter (0.4 to 0.5%).  The cation exchange cap.city is a'ctit
one milli-equivalent per gram of clay; the clay is montmorillonitic: thc 
soils are slightly alkaline (pit 8 to 8.4) ant moderate to high is limne (1 to
'.), total and available phosphate, and potash.  Few of tle  soili; are s,lin-
dnid fewer are higi in exchangeable sodium.  The physical properties of thes.
5oils are favorable, and-drainage is not a problem because of tie slopes and
permeable subsoil layers.
R.        The consultant made a semi-detalled soil suirvey which coverfct
ahout 20,0(0 of the 25,000 ha in the area: the sotih  'nformatior wn i uhrir*t
bv examination of pits at a density of one per 150 ha.                     IV.  , rni 4!; cr
.he pits were analyzed for chemical chiractoristics (Tab]. Z4).  JIel' 1r1r-
-oahility mleasurements were made at 16 lecatinns ('Vahle ',.  A soi 1  r.-,  :
:'repared at a scale of 1:29,000.
mnd_ Classification
'   None of the lancd classification criterin were s;t. 1     a' 3nd so
rhe ndequacy of the land class separations could iiot lie ascertnin-!i.  IOW-
etver. previous memor.nda stiggested, and tht availablk teQ'  ;i-,' lalorarorv
.lata a,,i inspection of the area indicated, that most of the s.-iLs are irri,,-
' le.  Moreover, experience with similar soils elsewher(-, in ceorhination With
r!e available soil survey and laboratory data, ('lahilr' suiabilittv for irri-
.L lon to be assesscd with reasonable prvcisivn.  A revisei classification
cePther wIth the or4ginal classification Trade bv consult.-nts, Tesco is given
o ()%



ANNFX 1
Page 3
Land Class           Revised Classification            Classification bv Tesco
(ha)            (X)               (ha)             () )
1                 2,000           10                   0               0
2                 8,000             40              9,984             49.6
3                 7,000             35              5,439            27.1
4 /a                                -               1,460              7.3
5 /b                                -               i,998              9.9
6 /c              3,000             15              1,221              6.1
7a  Lnmited areble.
/b Tentatively non-arable.
T_ Not arable.
Water
10.       The few water samples collected from Wadi Zabid flood flows con-
tained abouc 550 ppm soluble salts; thus the water is suitable for irrigation.
WJell waters have a narrow range in salt content, also averaging about 550 ppm
of salts. The surface supplies contain about 4 ppm of nitrogen and groundwater
supplies from 8 to 22 ppm nitrogen (1 ppm amounts to 10 kg N per ha per meter
of water): thus the nitrogen content of groundwater is undoubtedly excessive
for some crops.
Present Cropping Pattern and Yields
11.       At present, out of a total area of 17,000 ha, about 11,'00 ha
receives irrigation supplies from Wadi Zabid.  About 1,5(00 ta of the latter
also receives supplementary irrigation from about 100 O?i p!tped wells.
Another 3,000 ha is irrigated from about 200 wells alone and the remaining
2,500 ha is entirely dependent on rainfall. It is estimated that the
17,000-ha project area lias been producing an average of 22,800 ha of crons
annually (average intensity 134%).  The existing cropping pPttern under
average conditions and the presently achieved average yields are given in
Table 6. Actual cropping patterns and yields vary from year to year dependin:'
on water availability at time of planting.
_ rriat ion
12.       The project wotuld provide permanent water diversiorn weirs, canal
extensions and water distribution structures in Wadi Zabid.  Crops would be
grown in terraced basins mostly irrigated by flooding. Distribution fromi
basin to basin would be mainly by overtopping or cutting bunds, as at present,
but farmers would be encouraged to construct simple drop structures between



ANNEX 1
Page 4
basins. The surface supplies would be sufficient to irrigate an additional
10 to 15% of cropped land after construction of proper diversion structures
and with efficient water use. Fields would be pre-irrigated. Water woul4
be so distributed through field outlets constructed under the pFoject that
ove.r-irrigation, now common in the upper reaches of the canals, would be
largely eliminated.
':bor
13.       With the project, shortage of local labor nay occur during harvests,
particularlv at cotton-picking tine. It is anticipated that with project de-
velopment total crop production will more than double, cotton production will
almost tripie (Table 6), an.! farm labor requirements will increase. However,
little difficulty is expected in recruiting seasonal labor, mainly from the
highland areas, owing to regional d'fferences in peak labor requirements for
farm operations and the scarcity of off-season iobs in the Iligh1lands.  Futute
mechanization of farm onerarions in the Tihama would be possible in the event
that labor becomes scarce or expensive.
Fertilization
14.       Field research is required to deterrine ontimum nitrogen and
phor.nhorus applications for various rrops. Potash will not be needed for
rany years.  For planning purposes, i t is assumed that the crops irrigated
with groundwater w_l' recuire nc nitrogen, that spate-irrigated crops will
require an average of 50 1Ig/ha o: nitio!.e1n, and that the phosphate fertilizer
requirement will average 40 k/_ha/vr.  tin this basis, at full development tie
total annual requirerentg of ferttlizers wooul  be about 1,500 tons of urea and
1I,00 tons of phosphates.
Crop Protection
15.       The extensiOn service would endeavor to persuade farmers to elimi-
nate crop residues and Weeds which serve as hosts to diseases or pests.  All
seed distributed by TDA, including cottonseed, would be treated to minimize
seed-borne diseases.  Backpack sprayers would be demonstrated and made avail-
a!-le to farmers, and suitable cbemicals wotild be stocked locaLly for control
of pests, including termites. It is anticipated that the need for crop pro-
tection would increase as cropping intensity and yields increase. Pesticide
requirements at full project development are estimated at 75 tons per year.
Future Cropping Patterns and Yields
16.       It is estimated that without the project the area irrigated from
wells would increase to onlv 4,000 ha, and the area dependent solely on
rainfall would decrease to 1,500 ha in three years. During the next decade,
without the project, crop yields would improve by about 10% due to improved
seeds and better crop protection and agricultural practices. As a result
of improved grain yields, a small reduction in the area under subsistence
cereal crops and an increase in the area under cotton and othier crops would
occur.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
17.        With the project, the area irrigated by the Wadi water would in-
crease to 13,000 ha, of which 2,500 ha would also receive supplementary well
irrigation. An additional 3,000 ha would be irrigated by wells only and the
area dependent on rainfall would decrease to 1,000 ha. At full development,
the crop yields compared to the future "without project" conditions are
estimated to increase by 50% for maize and oilseeds, 70% for sorghum and
millet, 90Z for cotton and 100% for vegetables and other crops. These in-
creases are based on experiments at the FAO farm in Wadi Zabid and iniormation
on yields obtained in similar areas elsewhere. The increases would result from
better water management, better seeds, bals3ced fertilization, crop protection
measures, and the agricultural research, extension and credit facilities in-
troduced by the project. Present and future "with and without project" crop-
ping patterns and present and future anticipated crop yields and production
are given in Table 6.
18.        At full development, which would be achieved in about 10 years after
completion of construction, production of cereal grains would double, produc-
tion of cotton would almost triple and production of oilseeds and vegetables
would quadruple.
Agricultural Research
19.        Agricultural research in Yemen is in its infancy.  Some investi-
gations supported by bilateral assistance have been carried out at three
recently established research stations, one of which is in the Tihama.
Research staff and facilities are scarce and the problems requiring investi-
gation are many. A comprehensive integrated plan for agricultural research
for the country and for the Tihama has yet to be prepared. For the Tihama,
it is necessary to establish research priorities restricting the research
program to the study of practical problems of immediate and outstanding im-
portance, and to provide facilities and staff necessary for tlha investigations
to be undertaken.
20.        Problems that should rec^ive priority attention include:  (a)
screening and selection of crop varieties suited to local conditions; (b)
improvement of disease and pest control measures, particularly control of
termites and cotton pests; (c) fertilizer requirements for each crop under
local conditions, taking account of the abnormally high nitrogen content of
the irrigation water (para 10); (d) water and soil management investigations
including on-farm water distribution systems and erosion control; and (e)
farm management and marketing studies. The research stations should have
scientists and technicians trained in agronomy, soil and water chemistry,
pest and disease control, water management, and agricultural economics.



ANNEX I
Page 6
Agricultural Extension
21.       An agricultural extension organization does not exist in YAh.
Farm management practices are relativelv primitive, and crop )ie.Us are loiw.
However, practices could be up-graded and productivitv consider.bli" iacreastld
ainply by passing on to farmers information and techniques readily available
from other countrles. Such information as well as local research findings
could be disseminated through an agricultural extension service.
22.       Realization of the full benefits of the project would require an
effective educational program to train the farmers how best to mtile the
changes necessary for development of the agricultural potential.. The
specialist staff required for a progressive research and extensi(on program for
Wadi Zabid is sho4n in Table 7. An animal husbandry specialist i-i3y be needed
later. In view of the acute shortage of trained extension wor't-ees in Yemenr,
it is suggested that for a time the responsili.lities of the rese. rch staff
should also include planning and supervising field trials-cum--deronstrations
of recommended varieties and cultural practices on farmers'  Aieif..  Ah,ut
five junior agriculturists iwould be posted in the project area villa,es to
assist the research staff with these demonstrations anid to perfot' other tvpes
of extension activities under their technical guidance.  In addition, the
pioject would provide specialist consultants to train local staff, to plan
and execute a comprehensive applied research and extension proprata, and tv
assist and advise the local staff in extension and farmer trainin' (see Annex
6, Table 1).  The project would also provide for the necessaxy !Ildintws,
laboratories, equipment, transportation and operational costs "'or these  a m-
lities during the project construction period.



ANNEX 1
Table 1T
YEME  ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAM. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mean Temperatures
Station                       FAO Cama                   ZABID
1969   1970    l        1972          ABID0
January                  26.6    23.8    25.1                 26.5
February                 27.1    25.1    26.1                 26.8
March                    29.1    27.6    28.6                 29.2
April                    31.0    30.4    31.2                 31.7
May                      33.1    31.6    32.1                 33.9
June                     33.5    33.1                         34.3
July                     32.4    33.7                 33.9   33.2
August                   32.5    32.3                 33.5   33.7
September                30.6    30.6                 31.9   32.8
October           29.7  28.7    29.6                  29.3   31.2
November          27.5  26.4    26.2                  27.8   27.3
December          25.2  24.9    24.8                  25.5   25.1
Year                     29.6    28.8                         30.5



ANNEX 1
Table 2
:EN  ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVEOPMENT PRQDECT
Rainfall
Station                 FAO Camp                          ZABID
1969  1970     7l7   1972       1969   1'97=971  1972
-_________ _________-----          --       mm------- ---
January                 3     10      0                 15     14   11
February                0      0      2                  0      0     0
March                   0     12      2                  0      1     1
April                   3     16      0                  2      5    12
May                    0     49    10                   0     39     0
June                    1      0                         0      0
July                   41      2                 45      8      0
August                 34     12                 15    16       0
September      81    173    100                  31    63      29
Oct.ober        0    124      24                  0    29       0
November        0       0     10                  0      0     38
December        0       0     11                  0     0       5
Tear                  379    246                     1]33    121



AJ!4NN< 1
Table 3
PIAlIAIl; I!J±~. [kFIThAE!T PkUJ G;T
Itaiinfall in  Ca+.chment . re-
.;.:,tion                         iJu1eih                         ?uhah                            Sumara
1X7     1971       1 S72        JC 7')    19?1       I':9         1C7u      1571       l
i.,.? t) n                                                        -i  1   -                  -
3u                                                1 C14       ?7 1
'l hrch                             3U;                     10)                   '          1.L ~    27
:4r2                                Lj,g42                  61L4                             17;          1
t; a,                     ~~~~~~~~~~cc             G;        l          t7           52       ?1   
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                             Y '                   '    I .,-f -: .2
* 1l fi                  lt        -,,;                    ytJ         3         .          12,
tIl;,.l: ~ ~                                         69 11   |.t13                    122t      2{
ve)tssrbor ~ ~~~~~~          ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~ -,   9   0  5(;          135       't)7
c c1                              C.te   G(                         s1
:. venbeu                           15                                .)1                               L
3                                  7                    833u    1 ,2 3
I ' cods'n                v                                          Y;,
j  1                 4           1; 7
rl .-e t.   :j   Jc                    4:>        )4        ~~     ~~31            I~ JB
J, .3. ,                rs e                               l c:      1 -        1 <           5 -'1
{7           1 1 2      ~~ ~ ~~            ~       ~~14  7E;  1 77
-                     I;:  j11i)  i                     174 74
Ul l;;           j~~~~i41    1o 15C                            I                      1 )6      145:
H#>r I'e,-   ,  -,x             i1.J       11,                      33        65
;;cLoL,el   ;e         _                    ~~~ ~~~~6..  15
.i4ove'r,t,er                       1@                                LI:u                               2u
Year                               357                  1 ,U39    1 ,115                     367       682



ANNEX 1
Table h
YEMIN AwiA!3 REPUBLIC
TIKAMA DEVAlOPiME7T PROJECT
/1
Typical Analytical DEta of Wadi Zabid Soils
Frofile   De th       j     O.M.      Salt              CaCO -SP           San       Sib.
(.lo )~   ~                          7 XT  (Y  1w  *                                Ty T
6      0-10    8.1       o.6      0.04      34        2        3        (                   -
10-30    b.4        .2       .08     42        6         4       20        L6
30-50    8.0        .3       .03     34        2         3       o2        l'
.55-70    8.0        .7      -        -         3        3         .2       A         .
70-150   8.0        -        -       -         2         h       60I       ;o
9      0-16    8.4       1.0       .07      35        5        7                 42
31-h6    8.3       0.5       .14               6        11        10)
61-76    8.-4       -        .20     55        5        16        13      .4
86-101   8.3        -        .34       4       7        20
139-154   8.o        -        .5C     66        7        19                is')
0-13    8.2       o.4       .04     3h        5         6
25-38    8.1       0.4       .07     41        6         6
51-67    8.2        -        .08     46        6         6
83-99    8.2        -        .05     40        6         5
137-152   8.3        -        .o6     hb        6         7        *7
1I'l     0-15    8.1       0.9       .0t6     L9        5        4
15-29    8.2       0.9      .o4      46        5
h1-63    8.2       0.2       .02     33        G         L       L
:7-102   8.2        -        .03     34        5
lhh,-159   0.1       -        .OIJ    lO        6
- C- 3    8.0     0.5       .03     42                  5
'3-31    8.1       1.3      .0o      4b        6         i,
,; -*'9    o.2i    0.4               ,' ;? 4 .02  Lu             .
.''-  d2 -. -   -    ,           O>                 *e
; $2 5 .0        -        .07     51        7         Y        -9
C-li    8.3       o.4       .11     51        6         6        i2
iV -1)    0.3     0.5        .10     52        6         5
1 c _?2    b.2     0.6      .09      56        7         6
:,o-,'LJ   id.2)    -         E.07             6         41
1>.-;Th   d.3        _        .o6     47        6         6
-F ':'0!.- 'Yai;es 2, 3 and IJ, Technical Report 8, Tesco Feasibility Report o0i wiadi ;abiha.
- 3: Y?.   organic matter; salt = total soluble salts;
.:;4   -saturation percentage; CaCu3 = lime content;
':;P  =exchangeable sodium perceatage.



ANNA 1
Table >
YE4N ARAB REI'UBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
/
Field Measurements of Soils
Soil Type       Apparent Density   Field Capacity    Infiltration Rate    Permeabillt.v
tgm/cc)         TSby  Wt)            tmh Fr)      -TCmnr
Alluvial             1.38                18                 3.4                   1.3
1.34               27                 2.8                   l.7
1.33               19                 4.9                   1.9
1.36               18                 5.O                   3.5
1*40               25                 2.7                   1.7
Wind Affected        1.42                19                 7.0                   3.5
;,                1.44                21                 2.9                  2.1
1.30               26                 5.1                   1.7
Arid Brown           1.38                20                 3.9
"                  o1.27              26                 3.9
tii-              1.4.5               19                  l                   19
1.35               25                 3.8                   1.6
"  1 .50           22                 3.2                   1.1
"1.5               24                 2.0                   O.
1.52               24                 2.9                   0.7
Salt Affected       -1.t45               20                 3.3                   1.1
Xl Adapted from Table 7, Technical Report 8, Tesco Feasibility IReport on Wadi Zabid.



Ct-
T.?(M.  :CV; Pi00 Pi80'CC
e~~~~~Il ~ ~ ~ ~~00:.                                                                                       00      1
Pre.,,t end p.t.a. Cr,,er,a, putt..t,. trnIt end pr.ddctt. ,t
*v.er.g. Anna ovnr a 10 0.. Pr I.lod
.. .....  111:500                ,00 .                   __)___  0nr)                               (I.                             les0..j.no.                                                       0           am.,.0
0,.1Atsl   6,..             'fI eld     Prp24,      Arts       Y,ldl      Pod         ACC       0,.ld     Vend        Ar0 ..t    (t.t(     Pro        A.         01.14         w     ar         011          rd.        AsJt-l..P@ I .--¢
(he)          (6.,)       (II        (C)         (6.)        (Cl         Iti      (6.3        I)        It)       to.)        71)       (1)        (lie)      It)        (00      (6sl        ()         II)         (6*)       (?,)
(I) Opete                 It.S000/        2.000      0.8        ) ,000      5,7t70      C 8       9.15.       1,900      n        1,11.       0.(0 Co               0.4         6  o t00  0 S        30t       100       60 O600              I1.000    t
(2) 11.1  s Spt.t          1,700                       . -  *6 00                       I..         Qis         600        6      }060.  .                                 .         .                         Ioo       *.0         8(00       1,oo   )0l
(11  .11 soly              3 000          2.200      1.2        2.660        1.200      0.8         9t#       I.000      0.6        600         300      1.3         380         100      0.0         70       000       8.0       I.t40        ).000       147
(40 1      4               3.00 o                                 - StJO6_  .   *00     0.5         70,       2.00(?     0.4        800         .         .          _             o      0.3         s         _         '         - In)2. No
To.1l                           *.200                *,260       10.600                 8.200       0,300               3.800       1.S00                1.430         "00                400       60                  3,000       20,000       134
(10 Spot.                 11.000o         2.000      0.9        1.800 o,200             0.9       7.360       1,900      0.7       3,030      1.700       1.l      1.560         *(0      0.6         340      100       7.o          300      14 000       1
(20 8.116 OpSI            1,S000            .          .                       700      1.0           0          03      0, O                   .          .         .           .                    .        100      10.0        1,ooo       1.000    ) 100
(21.11 only                * 000          3,000      1.S       *.,00         1.500      1.0       I.100         S00      0 2         300      1,ti0      I.S       1.400         300      0 5        *000      0I0      10.0       1,000        6,tt0       10
(61 *-.nl1.; 1 7000                         .                     ,,, _       j                                                                                                                       Z 0)1  _   I   0.6 n  .  .   0  .lO  - 0     "O       1 j
T0.11                           1.000                6.300       !0.700                 4.730       4.200               2,610       2.200                 .l360     1.200                  70       000                  *.00        13,400       140
rtVrtt _{th PIPolet
(10 Si.,,                 13.000,,        I.100       1.7       7,130       O.00        1.5)      2 3 00c     0.103       1.2      1.560      2,000      2.0       6,00 1.070            0.9         90       300      14.0       6.200       It I00
(20 8.11 62pe1. 52t000                      -          .          ,          I.t10      1.7        I)00 .       0(u 00   1 6         7'tO       000      2.2       1,100        .370      1.0         300      200      16.0        3,200       2"00    )161
(3) 11.31 .ly              3.00           2.100      2.0        4,200        1.200      1.7        .)60         .         .          ,        1,000      2.2       2.200         000      1.0        300       400      16.0       6.400        S.200       173
(63 1.1 4                  10               . ooo   _  -          *            700      0 7          160     ..2Q2       06          *23        .          -         _           0        0.0  05      10 -00                         .          I'000 $
Total                           6.401                2.103        I,4 00               105,800      2,500                2.480      ),SIJ                7,300       I,TO                1.770      900                13.800       20.600       100
/    t11.4.. *p.t. 1rrIgated  oni4 Iln 12).                                 ' 
8    Otalod.. .v_.t  3WI1-lrrtoIg.d  -raps eel,



ANNEX I
Table 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAI4A DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Reconmended Research and Extension Staff
Position                     Field of Wbrk
Director                     Research Administration, etc.
Assistant Director           Extension Administration and Training
Agronomist                   Plant Breeding and Selection
Agronomist                    Fertility, Cultural Practices
Irrigation Eng.              Irrigation Design, Methods, Structures
Hydrologist                  Surface, Groundwater, Tubewells
Soil Scientist               Survey and Classification, Chemistry, Salinity
Soil Scientist               Reclamation, Erosion Control
Entomologist/                Pest Control and Plant Diseases Control
Plant Pathologist
Economist                    Farm Management, Marketing and Credit
1 Junior research professionals
5 Junior extension professionals
40 Clerks, laborers, etc.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
YFMFN ARAB RFPTI'BLTC
TIIAMA DFVELOPMFNT PROJFCT
W4ater Supplv, Ouality and Requirements
A. Wadi Zabid
Water Supply
1.        The project area lies on both sides of Wadi Zabid, which in a
rainfed stream and drains about 4,900 km2 of the western slopes of the high
mouutain range that lies 75 to 100 Ian east of the project area. Prior to
1969, only two rainfall stations existed in the country. In 1969, when fea-
sibilltv studies for the development of Wadi Zabid were initiated, nine rain-
fall stations were established, seven in the Wadi catchment and two in the
project area. Observations made from July 1969 to May 1972 (Annex 1, Table
2) indicate that the annual rainfall varied from 121 mm to 379 mm in the
project area. Rainfall in the catchment varied from 367 miu to 1,231 mm, in-
creasing from west to east (Annex 1, Table 3). About 65 to 70% of the annual
rainfall occurs during July to October. Significant rainfall also occurs in
the higher catchment during the months of April and May.
2.        Wadi Zabid has a highly variable flow sensitive to the quantum and
duration of rainfall in the catchment. The Wadi bed has a steep slope vary-
ing from 1 in 50 in the catchment to 1 in 13n near the pro1ect area. The
relativelv short length of the catchment and the steen land and bed slopes
produce flash floods in the Wadi, which reach the projrct area within one
to two hours after heavy rainfall in the hills.  Each flood attains its peak
In about one-half hour, the peak lasts only a few minutes and the flood flow
fades away in six to twelve hours.
3.        Stream flows were not recorded for Wadi Zabid prior to mid-1969.
In July 1969, a staff gauge was installed at Maarh, located at the eastern
boundary of the project area and the site for the first diversion structure.
In April 1970, an automatic gauge recorder was installed at Kolah about 10 km
upstream -f Maath. Because of a more stable observation section, the data
collected at Kolah are more accurate than at Maath. The Wadi flow observed
at Kolah from July 1969 to June 1972, when rainfall was below normal, was
as follows:



A_NEX 2
Page 2
Plow at Kolah
Period               1969-70      1170-71    1971-72    Avera.r. of 3 ve,rs
_mm_____________i __ -----   7
Julv-October                127.8         '9.3       81.8          96.h       1Ž0.4
Noveriber-Harch              13.8         16.8       20.6          17.1        12.,
April-June                   18.9         25.6       32.0          25.-'       1i,.3
Menn Annual                 160.5        121.7      134.4         1'."P        1)00.0
The base flow at Kolah varies from 2 to 5 r.n3/sec durinl; the Or;; winti  iitit.
Of November to March., DPuring April and May the flow incrr*aF:os >;ryidtd  I I1 y adzi
rainges fror 6 to 12 rt /sec and in June again reduces to ! 3to -                i3 i;-,:
JuLv to S'eptelaber the average flov varies from 20 to 5V' r' .-, v:til fi,od
peaks reaching 100 r,'sec.  The annual flow is equivaleaa1 I  .:  sV-er lt e 1i  '
discharge of 4.0 to 5.0 m3/sec.  The Wadl carries a ILgh pcrcenroie o0 s,.s-
pended sediment ane' large bed loads during July to Octol'r .&rd les..ir ou.-
tities the remaining.months.
4.         Since long range data for the Wadi flows are nor a:.ihltl, a
relation was established by Tesco witl flows of Waad'  JRzar' ;c t>i   ourthi tl
Saudi Arabia and l'adis Bana and Tuban to th^e south in t't  i½n   s IN!r-ncrat1r
Reptiblic of Yemen, which have similar characteristiCS 3-.- 1'            C'i   ,   -
,ords are available for 6 tc 10 years.  This study i dicA, i 'c  !t c,          'o  i0.
,-7,   !6 at Kolah should he exrected to var" accortli;t, io
Prol,abilitv                         Annual flo'u at LiTh
90                                        1 ;.
70                                        !0
':O                           ~~~~~~~~~~~2 i
30
?0                                        29;
10                                       34(
'he fl1-cw reachinp the project area (at ?MaatlŽ)   *hŽc:s by !0-30,
jl.a in1iltratior, losses in the Wadi bedi between KolaL and !!aath ai-d i')!
,    .   .:versicbns "or irrigation in this reach.  Tesco made .i [I ow 0'hS('rV;L it ions
s.'Les in an attempt to quantify the infiltration los.  Froro  these
:.L, 0.4, Jete d!ata the following general tentative concltusions can be di iwn:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(1) flow at Maath is 68 to 89% of Kolah flow, when
discharge at Kolah is above 5 m3/sec;
(ii) flow at Maath is 40 to 552 of Kolah flow, when
discharge at Kolah is between 1 and 5 m3/sec; and
(i;i) there Is no flow at Maath when discharge at Kolah
is less than 0.5 m3/sec.
The corelation established by Tesco between Kolah and Maath discharges is
incomplete and cannot be relied upon, hence the flow available at Mlaath
cannot be estimated. The mission's best estimate, however, is that the flows
at Maath probably would be somewhat higher than those estimated by Tesco and
would be of the following order:
Probability                         Annual Flow at Maath
X                                      Mm3
80                                      100
70                                      120
50                                      150
It was, therefore, assumed that on an average (five years out of ten) 150 Mm3
of water would be available for diversion into irrigation canals.
Water Quality
6.        Only a few analyses indiciting the quality of the Wadi water were
available, and these were made on samples taken when the Wadi was in flood.
These indicate that the total salt content is about 550 ppm equivalent to an
electrical conductivity of 0.8 millimhos.  Slig:tly more than half the
soluble salts were calcium and magnesium bicarbonates and a large proportion
of the bicarbonate salts precipitate to form lime when soils irrigated with
such waters dry out. Accordingly, half or less of the salts in these waters
contribute to soil salinity. Also the SAR (sodium-absorption-ratio) of the
water is low, and with adequate drainage no potential alkali problem would
exist. Most remarkable was the fact that the flow water contained an average
of 4 ppm of nitrogen; application of one meter depth of such water provides
40 kg of nitrogen per ha, a reasonable application of nitrogen for small
grains.
7.        Water samples from 48 dug-wells, which extend only a few meters into
the water table, contained an average of 8 ppm nitrogen or double the amount
in the surface water and only 600 ppm of total salts (i.e. 10Z more than surface
water). Samples from three deep-drilled wells, including the FAO Camp well,
contained an average of 22 ppm nitrogen (i.e. 220 kg per ha, per meter applica-
tion) but only 560 ppm total salts.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Water Requirements
8.        A8 discussed in Annex 3, surface (spate) water supplies are dis-
tributed when available in accordance with local regulations for water al-
location, mostly without relation to crop needs. At present the average ir-
rigation application for spate-irrigated crops is estimated to be 4,100 m3/ha,
which with an average rainfall of 1,?30 m3/ha would give a watcr usage of
5,890 m3/ha. Due to the limited season of high spate flows (July - September)
and low flows throughout the rest of the year, cropping has to be planned on
the basis of moisture stored in the soil, and calculation of optimum. water
requirements for crops is of importance only in determining the extent to
which these requirements can be met from the soil moisture reserves. Such
water requirements have been calculated for use in well-irrigated areas and
nay be used for comparison with the amount of water available for spate-
irrigated crops.
9.        The water requirements were ealculated by the Blaney-Criddle method
(Table 1), modified in accordance with U.S. Soil Conservation Service Technical
Bulletin 21 and disregarding carryover from rainfall, previous spate irriga-
tion, or flooding. Owing to the short period and erratic nature of the
rainfall records, annual effective precipitation was taken to be about 60% of
the average annual rainfall of the two stations in the project area (Annex 1,
Table 2). Also included in the water requirement calculations are land pre-
paratlon irrigations - 100 mm for the crops sown March through September,
and 75 mm for those sown in the remaininA months. Peak water requirement for
well-irrigated land would occ-ir in November and amount to 1.01 llsec per ha.
For land receiving both spate and well supplies peak water requirement would
occur in April and would be 0.54 1/sec.
10.       The average yearly flow of Wadi Zabid is 150 Mm3 and it is estimated
that about 112 us3 would be available for use in the field for irrigating
16,900 ha of cropped area. Thus 6,625 m3/ha of surface flow would be avail-
able after the project and with the average rainfall, the total water avail-
abiility would be 8,415 m3/ha, which is about 20% less than the optimu., ianey-
Criddle requirement but about 40% more than the pre-project supplies. This
shortage would not be serious, as the Blaney-Criddle requirements are calculated
on the babis of a number of waterings per crop, ant: include an efficiency
factor to allow for an accumulated loss of several centimeters depth of water
from each watering due to evaporation, whereas the spate application would
be one, or at the most two waterings with a proportionally lower loss. Re-
cognizing that the water application on spate-irrigated land would on the
average be less than optimum, lower future crop yields have been assumed
than for well-irrigated areas.
II.       At present an area of about 4,500 ha is irrigated from wells out
of which about 1,500 ha also receives water from the lWadi floods. It is
anticipated that ab.out 35 tubewells would be installed in Wadi Zabid under
the project's agricultural credit component. Most of these tubewells would
replace hand-dug shallow wells, and each tubewell would have an average



ANNEX 2
Page 5
capacity of 40 1/sec, sufficient to irrigate about 40 ha. The water distri-
bution systems would be short (channel lengths 250 m or less) and distribu-
tion losses would be small. Taking soil characteristics into account, opera-
tional and field losses are estimated to be 25%, i.e. overall irrigation
efficiency is taken as 752. For pump-irrigated land, the average cropping
intensity would be 173%. For areas irrigated from spate plus well supplies,
the intensity would be somewhat lower, and is estimated at 130%. Water re-
quirements for these two types of pump-irrigated lands are shown in Table 1.
B. Wadi Mawr
Water Supply and Quality
12.       Wadi Mawr drains about 9,300 km2 of catchment area.  There are no
rainfall stations in the catchment area and no discharge measuring stations
on the Wadi. The average annual flow of the Wadi was estimated by FAO/IBRD
to be about 560 mm3, about four times that of Wadi Zabid, but this appears
high. Water quality is known to be good and acceptable for irrigation. No
tests are known to have been made on water quality.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PRtOJECT
CROPPING SCHEDULES AND ESTIMATED WATER REQUIREMENTS 
WELL IRRIGATED AREAS AT FULL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                 S
COTTON                    44,4O                                   ..44.,*44'4N.j
~~qf-     .6-T,w, 1..                                                                    &..'',4'
SORGtiUM   ___            ______,44'44.
& L N'
rF
FAIL1LETS                                                                             ----- --
OIL$EEDS                                                                                                                                                                             A,4NI
SEG & OTHERS~                                                                                                                                                                                           q,Al
A.1' ..                                                                 
A- ~~~~.I,: 1               7                                                                                                                                                                                    :79~~~~4 - 
S1. K4,T0r   ,sr-          < 4
15. K; v. I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4..                                           '       III.4
- A 'r ,.3  Y i a 4 .   4r 4.                                 i.                                                                   .         i4 .:,                                                               44            7
o         -75~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



1,7
7. A-w,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         179
1
e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I                ji,
13. Y'l
K
14. W"                                                                                                                                                                                    4,
15.
it .K"  Wt.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;75r                            .50
1" Y3 'M"
18. K, I    t
15       ..5                                                                                                                                             '5                  .35    .45         .6C                 .90
21%. K,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30    .35          .50
pl,  j-, g..
21                                                                   1,3
W.!!
I . V. 1          1 . 71C)            I 't'io          11,100
23. M.1 z.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   23C-                                )1990
1             21920
lqo
25.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.540
140                100                620
T"T
(2) lp,-. 4, W-11 A,..,-!. I" I
IA                    iV                                     4.                                                                                                                                                                                    3,900
2e, M.1..                                                                                                 4,                                      A5
le.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11                210
C. $-,Y
z 5                !74                 179                                                                  2?1                                                      07                 ;4'I                207              2,000
.77                 72                  C                                                    JI             A3                  .53                                                                         .79                .64
33. Well   lpt*                                      73                 ki                                                                                      A                    -3                                                                          29                9m
17                 33             54                                                   .4                  .2t                                  .24E,              .24                .11                 M
I!d
"f Iftl:e crp. 1,
XI'       I"t
KI ad K;"         I't 'f T
c-P. Ki -d K2. 7h 2M   f
-P' KI -d K2, --h 14 f CF
W-t*.  (I) l'-p -'4r -q' Ir.-.t.  --dA,,9 t.                                 -I': -11-f -Sk   t KI
o         -.-Pt 1-
K..thly
ty/iO,  M..thl.y                  se
f.Ct,l IL.Iph.. f- t i.
f,r t 1.
M..tM
r-t-         -3ij
_t.r                                         T,-pjt.ti-)
(3) vi-r-1-                   DH  jf(V - 111i'.41.111'4
i,
YOM-17 9. 1973



ANNEX 3
Page 1
YEMEN ARAR REPt7RLIC
TItAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure and Water Rights in IWladi Zabid
Land Tenlure
1.        The land tenure system in the project area is extremely complex.
There are no cadastral records.  According to a survey made bv Tesco, lano
in the project area is held under tlhree types of ownership as given below:
Type of ownership              Area (ha)             _
Privately omned                  9,100.1            54
Privately controlled Ulaqf /a   5,300               31
State controlled Waqf                               15
17,000             lnn
/a Land donated to charity or religious institutions.
The privately owned land consists of about 6,000 ha held by 25 la.ge owne!-,
with individual holdings ranging from 35 to 1,500 ha or an average of 249 `-.
per owner; and about 3,100 ha held by aboult 2,000 small owners with an avorai.
holding of about 1.5 ha. Lands owned by large owners are farmed with the
assistance of tenants, while the smaller holdings are farmed by the owners
themselves.  About one-half of the large owners live outside the pro4ect arco
and their lands are managed bv a resident overseer.
2.        Both types of Wlaqf lands were once under private ownership but were
bequeathed by their original owners either to some religious institution or
to their dependents as trust lands that could neither be sold nor mortgaged.
The Waqf lands that are controlled privately are mostly under the management
of the oldest member of the donor families, but the income is distributed
anong the religious institutions and other members of the donor families in
accordance with the shares specified by the donors.  Sometimes the Ministry
of WIaqf appoints a manager, who supervises these estates.  The Waqf lands
that are State-controlled are managed by the Ministry of IJaqf but are mostly
leased to tenants. There are six types of 1Jaqfs under the privately con-
trolled and State-controlled lands and each has different bene'iciaries and
in varying proportions. In addition to the Government tax (74kat), the State's
share of income varies from 5% to 20%. These lands are farmed by about 900
tenants.



,NNEX 3
Page 2
3.        Under the prevalent practice, the tenants nsua:Lly pay for one-thlird
of the cash farming costs and contribute family labor. 17he landowner pays for
the bz-lance of cash costs and such labor as cannot be provided by the tenant.
This usually consists of hired bullocks, which must be contributeii towaras
the comnunity effort of repairing or rebuilding the diversion weirs and con-
structing a check in the canal for diverting water into the fields.  Tre
:arm income Is shared bv the tenant and the owner in 1:2 ratio, after p. iotmenr
of Zakat tax at 1n.Z of agricultural production.  The Zakat tax is als.  shar.
in 'i:2 ratio. When the owner hires an overseer to manage his land, the over-
seer assumes the owner's obligations and pays the owner either a fixed amount
or one-thirO of the incomTe.
4.         >;r land irrigated by pumping, the landowner, if he is also th.
ow-ner cK the well, pays for thc cost of pumping and 75% of all cash costs,
while the tenant contributes the balance.  Income is alslc shared in tht samre
rntio.  In case the well is owsned by someone else, the well owner gets 502(
;rc'ss produiction while the landowner and the tenant get 252' each.  The
prc'ductwon costs are shared by the landowner and the tenant in tVe san.  rati.
.xcept that all pum-ping costs are borne by the well owner.
..ter giYrts
In all wadis except Zabid, the rule for distributing spatte water tx.
"thl,rs- ! nglands first" is hleld sacred.  This traaition was established at
'.adi Zabid about 5n0 years ago by classifyinr thto 16 canals that distribute
rhe spate water into three groups and allocating water rights to cacti for a
particular calendor period.  The turn of each group. however, was F  ed on
the principle of 'hich-lying areas first."  Within each groun an upps-r cator!
has prior right over a lcer canal, except for Group I canals where the turn
of each canal is fixed for a certain number of cavs durinq, the 3-1/:2 roruc;hs
of very low flow in the Wadi. Within each canal, water is ;vithdrawn hy
farners according to the general law of "high-lying areas first". !;hernever
a canal from a group having first priority to Wadi water is unable to ,s-- izs
allocation. water may be diverted to the canal havin' the nvxt lAVser p-.0r itLv
*n the sane group.  In case water is surplus to the needs of the group having
:irst priority, it nay be used by the next group of canals in order of prece-
dence fixed by "high-lying areas first."  There are a few minor canals
(area 470 ha) that may irripate small areas within or along the Wadi bed anv
ttAne water is available.
6.        Group I Canals.  Grotup I canals have water rights from October 19
to August 2 (2R8 days), divided into three sub-periods: October 19 to March
?I (161 days), March 29 to July 28 (122 days) and July 29 to August 2 (5 days).
Thiring the first sub-period, which is the period of base flow, the water
rights of Group I canals are fixed as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Irrigable    Allocation of Water    No of         Total No.
Canal          Area (ha)      Rights bv Dates         Das_         Days
Bunay             1,100         Oct. 19 - Oct. 30         12
Dec. 14 - Dec. 28         1'
Jan. 14 - Jan. 29         16
Feb. 13 - Mar. 2          1X8
Mar. 14 - 'far. 1t         5           66
Barry                150       Oct. 31 - Nov. 2            3
Nov. 14 - Nov. 15          2
Dec. 29 - Jan. 1           4
Mar. 3  - Mar. 4           .2          11
Rodah & Gerbeh       630        Nov. 10 - Nov. 13          4
Nov. 22 - Nov. 27          6
Jan. 11 - Jan. 13          3
Jan. 30 - Feb. 2           4
Mar. 8  - Mar. 12          3 1/2       20 1/2
Hansury            1,200        Nov. 3  - Nov. 9           7
Nov. 16 - Nov. 21         6f
Jan. 2  - Jan. 10    .   9
Mar. 5  - Mar. 8 1/2       4, 1/2      26 1/2
Rayyan & Bagr    1,725         Nov. 28 - Dec. 13          16
Feb. 3  - Feb. 13         11
Mar. 19 - "far. 28        10           37
Total             4,805                                               161
7.        From March 29 to July 28 (122 days), the water rights among Group I
canals are fixed according to the tradition of "high-lying areas first  and
these canals withdraw water in the order in which they are listed. Tn this
sub-period the Wadi flows are generally higher than the base flow and in
addition there may be floods during the months of April, May and July.
8.         The third sub-period, from July 29 to August 2 (5 days), is assigned
exclusively to Rayyan and Bagr Canals, which are the last two canals in
Group I and may not have received satisfactory waterings during the second
sub-period. A substantial flood usually occurs in these 5 days.
9.         Group II Canals.  The Group II canals have water rights from
August 3 to September 13 (42 days), as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Canal                Irrigable Area
(ha)
Mawi                       2,400
Yusfi                      1,275
Ebry                         900
Gerhazi                    1,200
Gereb                        275
Bira                       1,475
Nasery (Wadi bed)          2,650
Total                   10,175
This veriod coincides with the period of high rainfall in the catchment and
high flows in the Wadi. During this period, water is shared again on the
general law of "high-lying areas first", with order of priority between
canals in the order listed except for Bira and Nasery canals, which divide
the available water equally.
10.       Groun  ITI Canals.  The Groun III canals have wat:er rights from
September 14 to October 18 (35 days):
Canal                Irrigable Area
(ha)
Sharabi                     625
Mahrawi                     300
Haram                       250
Ain (Wadi bed)              275
Total                   1,450
During this period the incidence of rainfall in the catchcnent decreases and
consequently the flow decreases, but in some years high flows are experienced.
During low floods, the water reaching Sharabi intake is aLlocated among
the first three canals in the ratio of 2:1:1.  In the event of a high flood.
water is first allocated to Sharabi, Mahrawi and 11aram canals and the balance
flows down to Ain.
11.       Supervision of Water Distribution.  The water distribution among
various canal groups and among the canals of a group is supervised by "water
masters" who are respected and trusted. They inherit their ftnctions or are
appointed by landowners. Each canal has a water master, and some have more
than one.  They do not supervise distribution of water below the field
diversions among the various fields, but they do try to settle disputes that
may arise among the farmers. Water rights of various canals and canal groups
are accepted by the farmers and recent attempts to change the system have
failed.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
12.       Water Rights After Project Execution.  After project execution, the
existing system of water rights would be modified. Government officials and
landholders expressed no strong objection to a change in the existing system
if a more efficient system was provided. With the project, TDA would need the
legal authority to regulate the Wadi waters and to introduce a new program of
water distribution.
13.       Water Rights for Groundwater.  At present no control is exercised
by Government on groundwater exploitation. The groundwater under a tract of
land belongs to the holder of that tract. With the project, TDA would need
the legal authority to regulate the exploitation of groundwater. This require-
ment has been included in the legal powers considered essential for TDA
(Annex 6, para 2).



ANNEX 4
Page 1
Ye4DI ARAB RFPUBLIC
TEHAMA DEVELOPt'FNT PROJECT
Description of Project Works
A.  IJadi Zabid
1.        The main construction activity under the projectl would be in the
Wadi Zabid area located in the southern part of the Tihamn about 100 Ian
southeast of llodeidah (?iap 10124).
General nescrintion
2.         The nroject works in Tladi Zabid (Vtap 1'1125) wou]ld include:
(a) construction of diversion weirs:
(b)  improvement of existing canals includin% reconstruction
of damaged structures and construction of additional
structures;
(c) improvenent of the existing water distribution system by
constructing new secondary canals, rc-ulatino structures
and check and field turnout structures;
(d)  installation of a telecommunication flood warning and
regulation network:
(e) constrtuction of buildings to provlde housino to staff of
T'A and its constultants; and
(f) construction of service and fnrm roads.
2iversion Ieeirs
3.        Ten concrete diversion weirs *qotuld be constructed across Uladi
Zabid's bed to divert water into 16 canals.  Tlese would replace the
primitive stone-brushwood weirs built each vear (at loast once an,l in
some years more than once) by the lo.-al farmers in "adi creeks.  Cate-
controlled intake regulators located on the flanks of the new weirs would
feed the existing canals. Cate-controlled sluicewavs to exclude entry of
the gravel bedload in the canals would he located adjacent to the intake
regpplators.  River training and hank porotection vxrks woulcl be carried out
in the vicinitv of the weirs and the innper reaches of thpe main canals.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Length of the weirs would vary from 30 to 150 m and their height above the
average Wadi bed would vary from 0.6 to 1.7 m. The qluiceways would be
2 to 6 m wide and the intake regulators 2 to 35 m wide depending on tIe
capacities of the canals they would feed which vary from 2.5 to 100 m /sec.
Improvement to Existing Canals
:.        Most of the main canals flow through the Wadi bed for 1 to 2 km
before assuming a regular section through the adjacent terraces.  In such
reaches, banks separating the canals from the Wadi bed would lbe constructe,i
so that Wadi floods could not enter the canal and cause damage. At locations
where existing canal sections are wider or narrower than required, imorove-
r.ents would be made and regime sections would he restored. Owing to lack of
maintenance, 25 structures on the canals are damaged beyond repair and would
he reconstructed. About 50 additional structures, required to contain the
canals within acceptable regimes, would be constructed. A new intake regu-
lator would be constructed for Haram canal. Barry canal, whose intake site
was washed away a few vears ago, would be fed from Bunay canal through a regu-
lator and a cross connection.
Improvements to Existing Distribution System
At present some of the nain canals do not have any secondarv canals
..nd large blocks of areas (500 to 600 ha) receive field to field irrigation
from one "bank-cut" turnout. The heavy diversions for such areas, which
continue to flow over considerable time through the first few fields of such
large blocks, cause serious damage to the crops and also result in formation
of meanderine and eroding water courses in these fields. To improve this
situation and to reduce the size of such blocks about 50 Im of new secondary
canals would be constructed. Over 450 regulating checks and turnout struct-
ures would be constructed on all canals to replace the system of distri-
bution by "bank-cut" turnouts.
Telecommunication
6.        The Wadi floods reach the first diversion site in about two hours
atter the start of rainfall. Whenever the upper canals are unable to use
the flood waters, unexpected supplies arrive at the lower weirs and are
largely wasted. In order to obtain advance information about the time and
volume of apDroaching floods and unexpected escapages, a radio communication
system, connecting five rainfall stations in the catchment with project
headquarters and the diversion weirs, would he installed. On the basis of
information furnished by this system, operating instructions for regulating
the flood waters would be issued to the personnel at the diversion weirs and
wastage of water would be minimized.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Butildings
7.        The FAO Camp on the left bank of Wadi Zabid has office facilities
and several residential units for consultants and local staEf. Additional
buildings would be constructed in this camp and in Zabid town to meet the
needs of personnel during project construction. After the project is com-
pleted, these buildings would house the oneration and maintenance staff.
Five quarters would be constructed at the rainfall stations in the Wadi
catchment to accormodate communicatIon equii re.t and the onerators.  Ten
quarters would be constructed at the diversion Weirs to house the nersonnel
operating canal gates.
Service Roads
R.        At present there are no roads in Wadi Zabid nroject area, except
the blacktop llodeidah-Zabid-Taiz road, which crosses the area through its
western fringes. To provide access to thie diversion weirs and the canal
system for purposes of construction and operation and naintenance, a network
of gravel and eart" roads would be constructed. This would consist of 50 km
of 6-n-wide gravel roads and 85 km of 3.5-m-wide fair-weather earth roads.
This network would interconnect most of th- project works and larger villages
(which are going to develop into market centers) with tlodeidah-Zabid-Taiz
road and would greatly facilitate the movement of agricultural inputs and
nroduce into and out of the Drolect area.
Operation and Maintenance
9.        The existing system of irrigation and the diversion weirs are
maintatned and operated bv the farmers with no contribution or supervision
from Government. At times, however, when a major renair or replacement is
needed the farmers approach Government for assistance, which is usually
Provided. The new irrigation system, which would include the existing canals,
would become a national asset and would be operated and maintained by TDA.
The telecommunication network and the service roads would aLso be maintained
bv TDA. Maintenance eruinment to be provided under the project would conslst
of bulldozers, wheeled tractors, motor graders, concrete mixers and transport
vehicles (Annex 9, page 2).
On-Farm Develonment
10.       On some tynical snate- and well-irrigated farmq, TDA would carry
out on-farm development mainly for demonstratIng its value Ito project area
farmers. TDA would encourage othor farmers to carry out land-levelling,
construct drons between field basins and carry out other minor on-farm works
on their farms. Technical assistance for such works and eniuipment for land-
levelling would be provided by TDA. Financial assistance would be available
through agricultural credit.



AN1F: 4
Page 4
Croundwater and Tubewells
11.        Presently more than 200 hand-du"g wells with Pumps and a few drilled
wells are pumping water from the liadi Zabid aquifer anid it is estimated that
by mid 1973, aVout 3(V) wells would be in production, ourmpinug {,nnutallv a net
of about 60 Him .  Investigations and sttudi s carried1 out hy T'esco indicaLe
an average annual rechiarge of about 12N Mm .  The dug ,ells- are from 1.5 n,
to 2 im in diameter and 25 to 30 in in depth, extending only 2 to 4 m. below Ctic
water table.  The wells are equippeJ witt, conventional vertical zurbinfe
pumps, powered by a 16- to 22-hD diesel eni'ine, and yield 15 tc 2"  lfstc.
12.        During 19711 and 1971, the water table in the well-irrz.vatcd area
dropped 2 to 2.5 m.  Vhile the rechirge to tht iiquifer dutring tCult poŽriod
was below  the estinated mean, pum?age wa'.s also liwlow the -;ist- "    estimate.
With post-1972 pumpage, further decline of the water table is tL  bj, ex-
pected, but at present there are insufficient data to make a1 re.:-;onable
estinate of the magnituide of that decline in either space or tir*e.  IrLcreas-J
depression will induce more rapid flaw into the area from  tile  -.tL; thu.s 't
some level restabilization within average recharge lirnts w.% Ll be attaine_
During this nrocess some of the dug wells  rill dry tip.  Tn some cases fanoelS
are already finding it necessary to resort to the e:"len.sive and time-consuk--
ing process of well deneoning in order to nenetrate d.ener i,.Lo !he aquifer
and stay in production.  The li'nit to which a well c.an b. di;iien -I is riot
absolute; it depenids on the diameter of the origirot well, tOe ,-oun1  tb,1
which deenening must be accomplished and the constr-uc:.;111 -th1;.d.   RFh  Iii¶ 9t
in practice, however, appears to be 10 to 1) in; theretotv, .'.l .ak>1e 'e
cline of that order would ren'cr the present .u5 we'Ls nbsolertt otl  i d'-
cline of 5-10 m (whicih ray occutr in the ne>.t decade) -.ou1d ad-ier         i I . :
the output of most wells.
13.        Tesco orilinally drilled 11 wells In 1Wadi Zabii t.  :ept';s '.'.1r; i..;
from `i9 to 130 m.  The discharge Yielded b\' these wells    ,   'f' !r. X f
1I.3 1/sec.  After exari,iing data colleetv.i 1-h Tesco, IL '!   ,:I: ude'  thaI
thses  data were un.reliable. promably li ense eroper well   , ...-tion .d
6evelopoment nethods were not cs.!d.  Wit'  lmr'roved m,et,lods,  '-n; o    'idd  I {,nial
wells were drlilled and tested *.n,d:r le.no's s'.er Jis        vi .1rin  th'r 1 '. 
half  ' 19,1.  These well" wtct dr:.Ale: to der'c   varvin,  `rovL !  :. 2'(
i,.d yielrIc!1 9, 12, 3' an'! SC lisc.  ')n thu  t'asis   .hi   L'  il' f      i h1t ; til,
t.s-.    n possible  ..-iL a sulLt,n.y ;ocatid '1,el Lhat is  nri.p2r]\v   ', lci  .I
jev Iloped couLd yie,A' 30-40 l1sec w;,ich could irriciate  ,--') h; xid re,t.i d
tiw  to three dug wells.
;erp!arement of Dug Wells
14.        Irn view of the expected decline in water table, discussed in
para 12, it is considered advantageous to replace the shallower existing
w.Lls 'ith a lesser number of drilled wells (100-150 m deep) which would
pump an equivalent volume of water.  It is anticipated that one drilled



ANNEX 4
Page 5
well yielding about 40 I/sec uould replace three dug wells. The advantages
of replacing dug wells bv drilled wells are (a) lower operating and nain-
tenance costs, (b) elimination of the problem of deepening dug wells each
year, (c) realization of a higher ultimate yield from the aquifer, since
water could be used from groundwater storage in periods of low recharge to
be replenished in the years of above average runoff and recharge, and (d)
lesser or no risk of failure in dry periods.
Tubewells under the Project
15.       A provision has been included in the agricultural credit component
of the project estimate for installation of 35 tubewells in WJadi Zabid. Tle
netw consultant would review all exploratory work done by Tesco and would
recommend the number of tube'.ells which could be installed to replace the
dug wells that are expected to dry up in the near future, and their location.
It is anticipated that most of these wells would be in the project area west
of the Hlodeidah-Taiz road. The consultant would also recommenid the location
of any tubewells that could be installed in the rainfed area. The total
number of tubewells under both categories would be limited to 35 for the
present  mntil more is known about the grounduater potential.  The installa-
tion of these tubewells would be arranged by the landowners, after necessary
permission had been granted by TDA under the new licensing procedures, eithtr
through approved local contr.ztors or through TDA.
B. Wadi Mawr
16.       W'adi Mawr, the largest wadi in the Tihama, is located about 160
north of Wadi Zabid (Man 10124). It has a catchment area of over 9,000 km-
and contains about 60,000 ha of arable land, of which about 35,000 ha is
connanded bv an existing spate irrigation svstem and about 25,000 ha is
believed to be underlain bv groundwater suitable for irrigation.
17.       Limited investigations to exnlore the groundwater potential were
made during 1972 bv Tesco under a UNDP/rAO contract.  The investigation
called for drilling three exploratory wells, but only tv.o were completed, the
third having been abandoned after encountering bed rock at a depth of 17 m.
The two completed wells yielded 23 1/sec and 18 1/sec. In both wells the
discharges and specific capacities during testing were surprisingly low
considering the characteristics of the asuifer; the initial discharge was
about 1/3 of the highest discharge and the specific capacities were signifi-
cantly lower than those ultimately reached. These anomalous results indicate
improper and/or incomplete well development and are not tsable for prolect
formulation.
18.       Rainfall data for the Wadi caechment and discharge data for the
Wadi flows do 2ot exist. FAO has estimated the total annual flow of the
Wadi as 560 Mm. , but this appears high. No data or plans are available for
the existing canals.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
19.       Under UNDP/FAO arrangements a soil snecialist was engaged in 1972
to carry out soil surveys and land classifications. Only limited explorations
were made and a broad land classification of the area to be irrigated by
groundwater was attempted. This classification is not sufficiently detailed
for use in project formulation and full explorations are needed to prepare
a semi-detailed land classification for the whole area.
.easibilitv Studv for Surface Water
20.       The feasibility study to be carried out under the project for the
development of surface water would include determination of rainfall in the
Wadi catchment, stream gauging and observation of Wadi flows and flow
characteristics including estimation of sediments carried, soil survey and
land classification, land tenure, possibility of storage development and
planning and( design of an irrigation system which could be sustained by
available flow supplies. The irrigation system would be based on diversion
weirs and would include all structures required to keep the proposed canals
in regime and to distribute the water over the area to be irrigated. The
study would include cost estimates and economic evaluation of proposed works.
1reasibility Studv for Groundwater
21.       Under the project, the feasibilitv of irrigating about: 25,000 ha
I,v development of groundwater would be investigated bv a consulting fi M.
An average of one well per 400 ha or about 60 wells would be drilled in
four non-contiguous areas (!ap 10126R).  Though exploratory In nature, the
bores would be designed and located as irrigation wells of aboult 40 1/sec
capacity. Drilling would be initiated near Mahal Fariga and would continue
westward on ahout 3-kn centers. If poor quality water or insufficient yield
characteristics are encountered, the planned drilling field would be adjust-
ed to avoid drilling predictable poor wells. The productive wells (about 50)
would be transferred to landowners by means of cash sale or agricultural
credit. The feasibility study would determine optimum design criteria,
construction development methods, water management techniques to be used,
cests and economic evaluation. Soil survey and seni-detailed land classiri-
cation would also be carried out. Sufficient knowledge of the water quality
uld aquifer characteristics would be obtained to plan and design ultimate
groundwater development for the area.
Access Road
2'.       There are two tracks leading into the l4adi Mawr area, one along
the coast and the other an extension of the gravel road terminating at
Sirdud; neither would carry heavy vehicular traffic. A 6-m-wide gravel road
from Sirdud to Azzohra, about 60 Kn in length, would be constructed to pro-
vide proper access for the transport of drilling and other equipment into
Wadi Mawr and would facilitate the exilorations and investigations to be
carried out.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Carp and Facilities
23.       At Wadi Mawr no buildings or other facilities exist to house TDA
staff and consultants to be engaged in the feasibility study. The project
would provide the necessary residential unites and an office building with
water supply and electricity at Azzohra.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TTHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Agricultural Credit Component
A. Introduction
1.        The project would include an agricultural credit component consist-
ing of two distinct parts: a range of investments including groundwater de-
velopment, farm machinery and equipment, on-farm development and storage,
farm service centers, processing facilities and incremental working capital
for initial purchases of additional inputs; and the building of an agricul-
tural credit system, which would initially serve the project but could be
transformed into a nationwide institution in the future.
B. Background
2.        Banking System.  The practice of modern banking in YAR dates to
only 1962 when the first banking institution, the Yemen Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development (YBRD), was established as a public sector organization,
with a minority private shareholding.  YBRD acted as both an independent eco-
nomic agent and an agent of Government monetary policy until formation of the
Central Bank of Yemen (CB) in 1971. Banking operations in YAR are controlled
by the Banking Law 1971, which supplements the Companies Law. It covers the
granting of permission to operate a bank and the regulation of its operations,
and limits its responsibilities. The law also stipulates capital, reserve
and liquidity requirements and regulates procedures for accounting, auditing,
and supervision.
3.        The Central Bank.  CB, with an authorized capital of 'YRls 10 mil-
lion(USS2.2 million), was established on Seotember 26, 1971 with the assistance
of experts from IMF who helped Government prepare the law authorizing it and
later helped organize its various departments. Its principal functions are:
(a) rediscount agency for commercial banks; (b) financial agent for Govern-
ment; and (c) fiscal agent for Government's transactions with international
organizations including IBRD and IDA.  C3 rediscounts commercial bank credit
instruments with a maturity of no more than six months from the date of re-
discount and industrial and agricultural production loan instrumRents with a
maturity of no more than nine months.



ANNEX 5
Page 2'
4.        A Board of Directors consisting of a governor, a deputy governor,
a rep'esentative of the Ministry of Treasurv, a representative of the Ministrv
of Economy and three other directors appointed by the Minister of Treasury
determines CB's policy.  The governor and the deputv governor are appointed
bv the President of the Renublic as full-time emoloyees for a period of four
years and are eligible for reanpointment. The Board must meet at least once
every two months; four members form a (quorum, one of whom must be either the
.,overnor or the deputv governor.  The governor is in charge of CB 's manage-
merit, which must conform to the policy detenrined by the Board.  At present
CBi has the following departments:  Central Accounts, Government A.counts,
Foreign, Money Issuing, Legal, and Economic Research.  The establishrent of
a department f.or the control of banks is also under consideration. CB has
its headquarters In Sana'a and one office each in Taiz-and Hodeidah and a
total of 240! emnnloyees.
5.        Yenen Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  After the estab-
lishment of ClB, YBRD concentrated on serving as a comnercial and investment
develonment hank.  Of Yl3RD's 1971 vaid-uo share capital of vRl}  10 million,
5s' I, held bv the Government and 49% bv the public.  YBRD extends; loains and
advar:ces to public enterprises. nrivate induscries, commerce, and housing
firms.  It also extends loans to avriculture via the Cotton General Company
x 'GC) anrd to commercial firTms mnarketing farm  inruts.  On a very li1ited scale.
YARD also ma1 es direct short-tern  loans to landholders fer the purchase of
tractors and for investment in irrigation 'dells.  Loans and otner advances
increased from YTRls 21.4 million (US$4.76 million) in 1968 to YRls 63.1b
million (USS14.09 million) in 1971.  Besides its lending activities, YhPD
l'articipated in the eeuitv of 1t) companies, amounting to YRls P. 7 mtllion
(ITS$2.1fi million) in 19'1.  YgPD'5 loan collection record is satisfactory
mid its bad debts do not exceed 5% of the loan nortfollo.  The nain office
is located at Sana'a, eight branch and sub-branch offices are located through-
out the countrv. Preparations are also underway for opening, a branch office
in Zabid, the main town within the Wadi Zabid nroject area.
6.        Foreign Banks.  Four foreign banks, namely the Habib Bank, th-
British Bank of the Middle East, the United Bank, and the Arab l.ank, opened
branch offices in Sana'a and Hodeidah during 1970 and 1971, nrimarily to pro-
.-de short-ternm finance to the commercial sector.  These banks are granted
rediscounting facilities at CB and are allowed to accept deposits fron the
public.  The opening of these foreign banks provided competition for the
banking service in the countrv, whtere previously YBPD had held a rmonopoly
position.
7.        Agricult ral Credit.  There is no organized agricultural credit
in YAR, exceot for cotton. Agricultural investors depend primarily on their
wn resources, on remittances from relatives abroad (mainlv from S;audi Arabia).
and on traditional non--institutional sources of credit, such as traders,
dealers, monevlenders, and usufructuary mortgapes for vihich notoziously higl
rates of margin a,e charged.  As Islamic law prohibits the institution of
ir,terest as a predetermined percentage of the princinal, usually a miark-up
must be paid (instead of interest) over the princinal.  This ranRes from
10 to 40%.



AŽNrEX 5
Page 3
8.        So far, two attempts have been made to establish an organized na-
tional source of credit for the agricultural sector. The first: attempt, made
in 1969, involved thz establishment of an agricultural credit (lepartment with-
in YBRD to provide short-term credit to farmers. This proposal was later
dropped due to lack of funds and inadequate organization and staff. In 1971,
a law was passed in Parliament directing creation of an Agricultural Bank, I/
envisaged as a fully Government-owned institution with an authorized capital
of YRls 20 million.  This second effort also failed because the financial
and institutional requirements again were not met.
9.        CGC extends short-term loans to cotton growers in the! form of seed
and cash at the rate of YRls 75-150 per ha and recovers the loans from the
sale proceeds of cotton delivered to the company.  The collection record of
CCC was qu.ted as over 90%.  From 1969 to 1972, CCC exr'tnded the following
amounts of short-term credit:
Year                     Hodeidah                  Zabid1
…YPls '000------------n-
1969/70                     640                     200
1970/71                   1,930                     800
1971/72                   4,150                   2,120
Funds for this program are made available to CCC by YBRD at an interest ..te
of 6% per annum (8% per annum until 1971). CCC also extends short-term credit
of up to YRls 5,000 to landholders for the construction of a well. Cr;ly land-
holders with a high cash income from cotton can afford the financing of wells
with short-term credit from CGC, as the loan must -bJ  repaidi after a maxtrium
of two seasons.
10.       A less organized source of credit to agriculture is provided  n
the payment arrangement allowed for purchase of irrigation pumps and engines
obtained as a grant from the Government of Libya.  Dealers, appointed by thc
Ministry of Agriculture to sell this equipment, repay the cost to Covernment
over a period of five years. Purchasers make a cash payment of 30 to 50% to
the dealers and pay the remainder within 24 months.
11.       Interest Rates.  CB charges Government 4% per annum interest for
its borrowings. Interest rates charged by YBRD for various types of 'oans
and advances ran.ge from 6 to 11% per annum. A preferenrial rate of 6% is
granted exclusively for the financing of CGC's short-term lending program
to cotton growers. Landholders pay 8% per annum on loans for purchase of
tractors. Current account overdrafts are charged between 8 and 10%Y per
annum, depending on the creditworthiness of the customer.  Rediscount fa-
cilities are made available by CB at 4-1/2% per annum.  On savings accounts
interest is paid at 3-1/2% per annum. Foreign banks operating in YAR follow
the same raLe structure.
1/   The drafting of the law for the Agricultural Rank was part of a UNDP/SF
project in YAR.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
C. The Agricultural Credit Component
Ceneral
12.  '    The agricultural credit component of the nroject (totalline
USS3.33 million) would help finance, over four vears, medium- and long-term
investments on farms located within the project areas of Wadi Zahid ard wfadi
.4awr.  Investments eligible for financing would be under five categories:
groundwater development US$1.40 million (42%); farm mac'hinerv and equinment
USSO.18 million (5;:); on-farm develooment USSO.50 million (15,'): processing
and storage facilities and agricultural services US$1.10 milllon (33%): and
incremental workinv capital for additional innuts, such as fertilizers, seeds,
insecticides, and pesticides USSO.15 million (5').
13.       The agricultural credit component of the project aims at insticu-
tion-bulldinp. To this effect, an Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) would be
created as a deDartment within CB with the main function of lending funds
to eligible borrowers through agricultural credit offices to be opened in
the project area. Technical assistance would be provided in the form of
consultant snecialists to organize and put the system into oneration and
to train lncal staff. Terms of reference for the consultant sPecialtsts
are given in Annex 6.
Detailed F-2tures
14.       Groundwater Development.  Investments in groundwater would include
the financing of (a) about 5n tubewells inqtalled hy TnA in W4adi '4awr ( STO. #
million): (b) about 50  umwn and engine sets for these wells (OS'r.25 'million>;
and (c) 35 tubewells comolete with ptrn  and engine sets in Wadi Zabid (US$0.5'
-mllion); or a total of   1SS.40 million.  Each tubewell is estimatet tJ cost
about USS12,nnO and a  nump and engine set about USSS,000.
1;.       rarrn Machinerv and Fquipment.  Investments in farm machiner- would
consist of about 25 tractors ranging from 4; to 65 hn and implements at a
cost of Ussi8O,ooo. About USS15n,O0o would be earmarked for Wadi Zahid
armers and l'SS3O,000 for Wadi Mawr.  To ensure optimum utilization, TDA
would require that each borrower use the tractor and equipment on a suffi-
ciently large area of his own land and/or land of other farmers (through
custon worlc). Sone imported farm equipment is available locally, while
tractors would have to be inported.
1h.       On-Farm Development.  To permit efficlent utilizatioin of water
from each tubewell, investment in land levelling, farm layout and construc-
tion of bunds and water distribution svstem woutld he necessarv. TDA would
design the farm layout and water distribution system for each tubewell. In
Wadi Mawr, these works would be carried out by TDA either directly using its
own equipment or through local contractors. In Wadi Zabid, on-farm works for



ANNEX 5
Page 5
new tubewells and spate-irrigated areas would be designed bv TnA, but would
be constructed bv the farmers either directlv or through local contractors
under TDA's supervision. On-farm development is estimated to cost about
US$100 per ha for tubewells and about T'SS50 per ha for spate-irrigated areas.
On this basis, a provision of ITS$500,0O( has been made for on-farm works In
the project area, of which USS200,00n is for Wadi Mawr and the balance for
Wadi Zabid.
17.       Processing and Storage Facilities and Agricultural Services.  The
agricultural credit component would include financing of farm product pro-
cessing and storage facilities.  Main investment in this category would be in
a cotton gin and associated storage vards at an estimated1 cost of USSO.8 mil-
lion. OVter processing facilities, such as a tomato-conserving and paste-
manufacturinR plant, would also be eligible for financing. Products from
such a plant, mainly for local consumption, would substantiallv reduce im-
ports of tomato paste. Loans for cotton gin and other orocessing plants
would he given only after thetr feasibility had oeen established, for which
consultancv services would be provided bv the nroject.  Investment in stor-
a-c facilities wonld include about 5n small on-farm stores costing US$10,000,
and five farm service centers for storage of agricultural inouts, aLso cost-
ing USSIO,nflln.  Enterprises providing services to agriculture, such as main-
tenance and renair shops for agricultural equiprent, would also be eligible
for loans.
18.       Incremental Workinr Canital for Additional Innuts.  Short-tern loan.
wou,ld be given to project area farmers as incremental working capital for
providing additional inDnts, such as improved seeds, fertilizers and pesti-
cides.  Estimated cost for this categorv is USSO.15 million.  These loans
could he either in cash or in kind and would be elicible for all tyoes of
crops includine cotton.
Cost Estimates and Financing
If.       Cost Estimates.  Cost of the agricultural credit component of the
project is estimated at US$3.33 million, of which VSS2.vrJ rmillion would be
in foreipn exchange   The cost estimate is given below:



ANNEX 5
Page 6
YRls Million          US$ Million       Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
Investments
1. Groundwater Development
(a) Wadi Mawr Wells      2.70      - /a 2.70  0.60         /a 0.60       -
(b) Pumps for Wadi
Mawr Wells           0.18    0.94   1.12  0.04    0.21  0.25         84
(c) Wadi Zabid Wells    0.50    1.98   2.48  0.11    0.44  0.55         80
Subtotal           3.38    2.92   6.30  0.75    0.65  1.40
2.  Farm Machinery           0.14    0.68   0.82  n.03    0.15  0.18         83
3.  On-Farm Development      1.35    0.90   2.25  0.30    0.20  0.50        40
4. Processing and Storage
Facilities               0.99    3.96   4.95  0.22    0.88  1.10         80
5. Incremental Working
Capital for Addi-
tional Inputs            0.13    0.54   0.67  0.03    0.12  0.15        80
Total              5.99    9.00  14.99  1.33    2.00  3.33        60
/a   Foreign exchange expenditure made under Feasibility Study.
The cost of agricultural credit included in the project cost estimate (Annex 8,
page 1) is US$2.73 million (excluding US$0.60 million for Wadi Mawr wells).
The cost of consultant specialists and training is included under engineerinig
and administration costs for Wadi Zabid.
20.       Financing.  The IDA credit would finance 60% of the eligible invest-
ment costs (75% of the amount of funds to be on-lent by AC(), estimated at
tS$2.0 million (60% of US$3.33 million). Government/CB would finance 20%
of the invest:ment costs (US$0.665 million) and the farmers and other borrowers
would finance the balance of the investment costs (US$0.665 million). Financ-
ing of the investment costs for various items would be as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Farmers/       Government
Borrowers           /CB         IDA       Total
Investment Costs           ------US$ million---…
1.  Groundwater Development      0.280             0.280        0.840      1.400
2.  Farm Machinery                0.035             0.035       0.110      0.180
3.  On-Farm Development          0.100              (.100       0.300      0.500
4.  Processing and Storage
Facilities                   0.220             0.220        0.660      1.10)
5.  Increrental Working
Canical for Additional
Innuts                       0.030             0.030        0.090      0.150
Total                  0.665             0.665        2.000      3.330
21.       Government would he the borrower, obtain the IDA credit on normal
terms, and carry the exchange risk. Disbursements received by Government
under the agricultural credit component would be made available in the form
of a loan to ACF at an interest rate of 4% and with a maturity of not less
than 15 years. This rate is lower than that charged on funds lent by Govern-
ment to the Cotton General Company (6%) but is justified because ACF, which
m' Lst remain competitive with commercial banks, -It' have high operating costs
In its early years. Further as noted in para 11, the Central Bank charges
4% on Its loans to Government.
22.       Disbursement.  IDA disbursemcnt for the credit component would be
o'er alout four years from the date of effectiveness.  Disbursements would
b- made against appropriate statements and documents for 75% of the payments
made bv the Agricultural Credit Fund Offices against eligible loans as cer-
tified bv CB. The cost of local staff and administrative services would he
recovered from interest charges and other Income ;nd would not he eligible
for disbursement.
Organization and Management
23.       Administration.  The Central Bank would administer the agricultural
credit comnoonent of the p.ro4ect through ACF, whose manager would report di-
rectly to the governor of CB. The manager would recommend to the CB Board
of Directors policies te, be followed by ACF and after anproval by the Board
would be responsible for their implementation. The manager would also formu-
late procedures for all operations to be carried out by ACF and be responsible
for training an(d supervising the local staff, both at headquarters in Sana'a
and in field offices; for adootir,7 the criteria and orocedures for loan ap-
praisal, supervision, accountinp and related functions: and for nonitoring
all of its asnects. The ACF main office and field offices would be managed



ANNEX 5
Page 8
during the first three vears bv specialist consultants but later with the
prior anproval of IDA, managerial functions would be transferred to trained
counterparts.  To minimize duplication of staff and services and to ensure
coordination, ACF and its field staff would relv on the TDA agricultural
directorate staff for guidance in technical matters.  Consultancy services
would be provided for a total of six man-months, for the cotton gin and the
tDnato processing olant loans.  ACF's organizjrlon is shown in Chart 74VJ.
24.       Resources of ACF.  A(F would have resources for (a) meditum- Xi i
long-term develonment credit, and (b) short-term production credit.  The
iesources f,r meditnu- an; lon7:-term  credit would consist of:  (a) l:S5°.665
million lent to ACW hv Government, and (b) USs2.n million from the proceeds
of the IriA credit.  CGivernment's ccnrribution would be made in  L,ree instal
Inen!.s; the ftrst of US$0.165 miliion on the estahlishment of ACF and the
othfŽr twio installments of USZO.2') rAllion each, 12 and 24 months after
estahlishment of ACF. The credit component of the IDA credit would be made
available to ACE bv reimhurseme;t of 75S: of ACF's eligible loans.  The re-
s,urces for short-terr  oroducrion crelit would Fe supolemented by funds
tainpd bv AfT from Government. bv special 3zreemrent and from loans and r--
cdiscount facilities fron other sources.  Tne fwids to be provided bv Govern-
--nt from proceeds of the .TA credit 3nd other sources would be made avafi-
unle in the form of a loan bearing an interest rate of 4% for a term of 15
vears, including a fi-e-vear grace period.  The interesr rate would be subje.t
L.- review if it were found that ACF was unable to cover its onerating costs,
including provision for bad ebrs and depreciation, while on-lending at rates
reasonably in line witch thosec of conmercial banks.
25.       Lendiig Policy ?r' 1'r.e6urps.  Lending onerations and procedures
would be in line with a Policy Statement to be issued by CB (Appendix 5-1).
The ACF fiell staff would assist anplicants in tec nreparation of loan re-
quests, farm plans, income and expenditure estimates, and cash flo-.,s; ap--
praise applications in terms of incremental returns: ano submit recommen.a-
tions to management. TDA's staff would assist ACF in this task. Superviison
would be performed by the ACF staff, who would periodically visit the qor-
rowers' farms or installations. Interest rate to borrowers would be reasonabiv
in line with prevailing rates for medium- and long-term loans for similar
:rposes by commercial banks, currently 9-11% per annum; miniimunm contribution
bv borrowers would he 2fn% of investment cost; maturities would not exceed the
life of the assets financed: loans in excess of IJSS3O,OflO equivalent or loans
for processing and storage facilities would require IDA's prior approval.
26.       Maximum repayment period for various tvpes of loans would be as
follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 9
rnvestment Categories            Grace Period    Repayment Period       Total
-er-- -----~-------
1.   Groundwater Development           2                8                10
2.   Farm Machinery                    2                5                  7
3.   On-Farm Development               2                8                 10
4.   Processing and Storage
Facilities and Other
Agricultural Services             2                8                 10
27.       Accounts and Audit.  ACF accounting would be handled by CB's
accounting department, but would be kept separately in two independent ac-
counts, one f':r the medium- and long-term development credit to be financed
directly from project funds and another for the short-term production credit
to be financed from other resources. An ACF accountant would be assigned to
the department to work in a liaison capacity. At present accounts are audited
by independent auditors appointed by the Ministry of Treasury. With the proj-
ect, accounts would also be audited by indenendent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Audit reports and financial statements would be submitted to IDA not later
than four months after the close of each fiscal year.
28.       Cash Flow.  The estimated cash flow of ACF (Table 1) is based on
long-term lending operations for YRls 12.0 million (US$2.67 million), ob-
tained as a loan from Government including IDA credit. The cumulative cash
surplus would be sufficient to initiate a modest short-term lending service
after the first year's operations, which could become substantial after ACF's
fifth year. Additional equity would, however, be required to support antici-
pated business expansion. The cumulative cash surplus of ACF, in case the
loan was converted to equlty at the end of t,,ird year of ACF's operations, is
also given in Table 1.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page I
YtMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Policy Statement for Operations
of Agrlcultural Credit Fund to be Established in Central Bank
Resources of the Fund
1.        The initial resources of ACF would consist of:  (a' a sum of YRls
3.0 million (US$0.665 million) lent to ACF by government fromn its own
resources, at an interest rate of 4% per annum and for a term of 15 years
including five years' grace, (h) YRls 9.0 million (1US$2.0 million) from the
proceeds of the IDA credit to be passed on by Government to ACF in the same
manner, and (c) amounts received bv way of repayment of loans made from the
resources of ACF.
Use of Resources of ACF
2.        The YRls 12.0 million ((a) plus (b) of para. l), of wiich 25%
originates from Covernment's own resources and 75% from the IDA credit, shall
be used by ACF exclusively for medium- and long-term loans for financing
investments in groundwater development, farm machinery, on-farm development,
processing and storage facilities and for short-term loans for incremental
working capital for additional inputs.
3.        A'll recoveries made in respect of loans disbursed iErom ACF shall
be credited to ACF and may be used either for short-term production loans or
for further medium- and long-term loans.
4.        The interest paid on resources in ACF and that earnmed on the loans
shiall be carried to the Profit and loss account of ACF.
5.        ACF shall maintain separate accounts for (a) operations utilizing
resources for medium- and long-term loans and (b) operations with resources
from recoveries or other sources to be utilized for short-term production
credit.
Eligible Borrowers
6.        Loans from ACF may be made to individual cultivators. groups of
farmers, persons or entities engaged in agriculture-related activities spe-
cified under paragraph 2 of this policy statement, each of whose business
is conducted within the project areas or related to the agricultural produce
therefrom.



A4NNX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 2
Size of Loan8
7.        No single loan for groundwater development, farm machinery or on-
farm development shall exceed YRls 135,000 (US$30,000). Any loan applica-
tion exceeding this amount and all loan applications for processing and
storage facilities wlll require IDA's prior approval.
i.        A loan to any beneficiary shall not exceed 80% of the total cost
of the investment proposed.
Security
9.        AC? shall obtain adequate security for each loan made.  However,
apart from security considerations, loan requests shall be evaluated in terms
of the projected incremental returns from the additional investument to be
financed and the resulting repayment capacity of the borrower.
Lending Principles
10.       ACF shall aim at financing only those investments that are found,
on careful appraisal including field investigation, to be technically feasi-
ble and financially viable, and can be expected to be managed satisfactorily.
ii.       The period of repayment of loans shall be based on the life of the
asset or development financed and on realistic projections of the borrower's
cash flow.
12.       Loans from ACF would not be used for refinancing investments already
financed from other sources.
Recovery of Loans
13.       Records shall be kept of the repayment dates for loan installments
and the progress of collections.
Rate of Interest
14.       Loans made by ACF will bear interest at a rate reasonably in line
with commercial banks' interest rates for medium- and long-term loans. The
interest rate of loans from ACE may be revised from time to time in the
light of the current market rate and ACF's operating expenses, including
adequate provision for bad debts and depreciation, but with the approval of
IDA.



YtOClt ARt U"JttLC
TIEAPA DWI,WIENT DPIJMC?
Aaricultursl Credit Pssd Cash  ity .j
Project Tear                                                  7          1                     5          S          7        8           7         10           11        I        1t           14         is          13
WY Operatitos  Y.r                                                    t          2          I          4          5                   1 *         8          *0                    11      1^            1'         t4          t5
IDA Credit                                                770      3,000    31240        2,010
(15 years, 5 years $Two
4% ietere.t)
Leto"  from Co ert                                        750      1.125     t1,15
(ter teem  as otA cr dIt)
insapey te by bNrm_5
(a)  Princitpl                                                                1          6?2      1,14t      1500    1,500        l.StD      1.50t      1.500    1377          879         1
(b)  Irterest a                                          40                   5tl        79        . _M     _Al         _W          4l         127       _        ..A 97         n          I
Total O.tflow                                             5?                  5 04S      LAl4        1IM L970         Z8             1.2 LOt           L             L4AM     ,J5         __.l
loses to sorrosors                                        960      £000       4.120      2.700
tpt7a'nts to Covsr¶mn t
(a)  Irtioipsl (both losns)                                                                                    2 *  1.200  I.PX0 1.200       1.P00      2.200    1.0        1. P00       1. ^00     *.700       1.200
(b)  laterest St 4* (both los.r)             /           4         1J4        33*        403    S     O        432       35          34        me          A40       197      144           94         48          24
AC?oA Aatntstr6ties Cost lJ                               200        250        250        250        250        250       250         250        750        250                 250        5M           50          a50
?rwvtstoe  for Dad Loans   j                              -           t           5    7.             tOo        70v    __            !°°           0     -  02         75        SOm       --5         _
Total O.tfIw                                              2        Lia        4919       1±A           610     j4jO        1 93r 4   I 8       LI           2.70       71?    J4M          jARI j       IU9      1j74
Annu l Cash Surpl   (DeficttI                            P295       (42)        110          17     .1040         204       114         6^ (l)             (S^)       (041)    (7'9)    (t1.10)   (1.448)        (3,474)
Coulstiv  Coab SorpI.s (Dficlit)                          ?9         274        .44         361       j 111    1 707    151         7 901       710^      LI0    LIAI            A'         ..'12    (I 401      t71? 1
It CASIS LO"  CQVIUV!RTD TO
KviTY AT  9DI  OF 8tI1  YE"AR
toetal Oucflo                                           1 .        4 42LjL 'S            37025        '59         15C       SSS      _W_          140      .70_.               3i0 0          I       .. 250        .J
A.nu-l C..h S.rpl.. (Dtititr                              295      S(61          110        420         t.20    1.870     1 1,       1.598      1.1.7      1. J' t   ,149       400          'U       t25)         (750)
Culosttv- Cash Surplus                                    295        234         344   7     64      2 384        7      5 94n       _.          .Cz      1040A    11SSi   122.21' 57 11 .997                   UL741
This table de.l. -nly  tth ACFs lot-tern lndlg operatton. (or TRI. 12.0 ellionn  cUSS 2 6'                          Sblion)   Short-tet  lndtni'
to be dons by ACF with fund  other than sbove (redlsco.-ting fror Ce^rral Rank, re.lnvo.ttent  f racovoris or  ddtt-nal
ov.r,nnt contrib.totn   tc.) h,ve no  been ten Into aecount.
2lterast rat  84.  Comresl bck rstsr ste currently 9-11% for Sdlto-and  long-teco-                n0
J  Adstnltretve costs do not Include cost of conoalt.eta   rull cot, after operatItns vetr S not chorgeshse tn lending vol-._
howe In thl tabl aut not redu ed in clan, of toatttutloc buIlding
4  O.t about St of ceet,ctd reacvetrle  of princIpal and  .ltertst.



ANNEX 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF AGRICULTURAL CREDIT FUND
Tshama Developrnent
Authority                             Central Bank
Board of Darectors                            Governor
General Manager           *    *              nACFer
Asst. Manager                             Counterpart
Director Groundwater                         "F l  Manaq                            Cotton Ggneral Co.
Director Agriculture           gri
Counterpag t
Accountant]
F    reditAget                 |Credt Agent                           Staff
W  Zobid                                                                  Bn. Mawr 
WAorld Bank -7410



ANNEX 6
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization, Management and Consultants
Organization and Management
1.        Tihama Development Authority.  To execute the project, Government
would establish the Tihama Development Authority (TDA) with appropriate legal
powers, staff and financial resources. TDA would have the authority to op-
erate in the entire Tihama region (Map 10124). TDA would be free to undertake
other projects in the Tihama following completion of project construction,
but prior to that it could do so only with IDA's agreement.
2.        TDA must have the following legal powers:
(a) to acquire land for its works and to enter into any lands held bv
others for purposes of surveys, data collection or any other
objective;
(b)  to own the wadi beds within limits to be defined by it and to
demolish any existing works or to construct any new works within
these limies;
(c) to regulate and control thle distribution and use of all surface
water;
(d) to own, control, maintain and operate all existing and new irriga-
tion works;
(e) to regulate the future development of groundwater by licensing all
existing and new installations;
(f) to install exploratory wells on lands held by others, to develop
the feasible wells into water-producing wells and to sell the
successful wells to others;
(g)  to operate wells and to sell the water to others at rates to be
determined by it;
(h) to regulate and control the cropping pattern and the areas under
various crops;



It-i;ibx b
Par,e -
(i)  to construct works connected with Jevelopment of surface and
groundwater;
(j)  to enter into contractual arran.zeinents with firms or agencies for
erecuting works;
(k)  to organize and operate on its own behalf or on behalf of the
Government or any other Cover-nental insCitution agencies deaiing
with agricultural research, extension and credit;
(1)  to hire, determirne rates of pay and other conditions of service
and discharge its staff; and
(LI)  to levy project charges on the landowners, tenants and other water
users in consultation with Governi-ent an(d to collect such cnarges
or direct another Government agency to collect such charges.
3.        TDA would have e ooard of Directors, wiich would 5e ntominated by
Governrment and would consist of a Chairmacn and members.  The Central 3ank
(cB) would be representei on the Board.  The Chairman of the Board would also
be the General Manager of TDA. He would be assisted by two Advisors, one of
whom would be an expert in orgaLuization and management and tihe other a finan-
cial expert.  The Advisors t--uld be employec by TDA on terns and conaitions
acceptable to IDA.  An Assistant %tanager would also oœ appointed, wuith IDA's
agreement, who would be craine& by the General Manager arid the Advisors.
Three directorates - for surface irrig'ation, .roundwater and agriculture,
each headed by a director - would be established in TDA.  An administrative
officer would be in charge of personnel, qccounts and other ,,eneraL services.
ACF would be established as a separate department in CO,.  Ihe oonsulting
firm engaged for providing eni!ineering services and other specialist consult-
ants would be an inte-ral part of TDA.  Tthe proposed organizatioti of TDA and
ACF is presented in Chart 7172 (2R).  ACF's organization is also showni in Chart
7410 (Annex 5).
Staffin,-, TDA with fully qualified andi exxerienced te.-chni;.ians
wouild be difficult because of ttue paucity of trailletd personnel in YAR.  It is
-.Lirtated that, at present, Government ermploys about 25 g,raduate eingineers
and 20 graduates in agricultuiral sciences.  3etween 30 and 40 Yemenis gradu-
ate in engineering and other sciences fron outside educational institutions
each year, and moet of them seek and find enployment outside Yer.en.  To ex-
ecute the project it is estimated that TDA and ArF would need to employ 10
engineers, 8 agrivultural graduates, 4 accountants/credit officers, 24 en-
gineering and agricultural assistants and 30 skilled technicians. The staff
for TDA would have to be found from other Government departments and recruited
either from within the country or fromn the Yemenis that ale employed in other
Middle East countries.  Middle level and junior technicians would be recruited
muostly from within the councry.



AXNEX 6
Page 3
5.         Consultant Services.  Tesco, the consultant that made the feasibil-
ity study for this project, completed its contract on November 1, 1972 ana
was not eligible co continue as a consultant under an IDA-financed project
as it belongs to a country that is not a Bank member. Continuation of en-
gineering services from November 1 onwards would provide project benefits
one year earlier and the disbursement tiwe and overall costs would be reduced.
Reaiizing the necessity of continuation of engineering services, Government
has employed a consulting firm, with IDA's agreement and Kuwait Fund's financial
assistance.  The work to be performed by the consulting firm in both Wadis
Zabid and Mawr is given in paras 10 and 11. The details of consultant per-
sonnel and the time for which such services woule be required are given in
Table 1.
6.         Agricultural Researchi and Extension.  The details of research ana
extension work as well as tt.' local staff required for these activities are
given in Annex 1. The specialist consultants needed for research and exte*nsion
and the time for which these consultants are required are given in Table l.
These consultants would advise and assist TDA's staff. Special empilasis would
be given to executing the research prograr!, and setting up extension activities
includinig health measures and for the trainin- of staff and farmers.
7.         agricultural Credit.  Two specialist consultants would be furnishea
under the project to set up ACF and to train local staff. These specialists
would have executive responsibilities and would train their counterparts.
The main duties of these specialists would be the development of interest
rate and lending policies for ACF and the fonrulation of a plan for the
expansion of ACF into a national credit institution. One or two short-term
snecialists would be furnished, it the appropriate time, to ACE to review
borrowers' proposals for the cotton gin, tonato-conserving plant and ot;Ier
similar large-sized investments. Details of specialist requirements are
given in Table 1 and terms of reference in para 14.
b.         Operation and Maintenance.  W4ith the help of its consultants, TDA
is to develop a new system of water distribution in Wadi Zahid, which, after
IDA's review and following completion of construction, would be put into
effect.  Thie consultant would also prepare a manual for operation and main-
tenance of the irrigation works and train the TDA staff to carry it out.
Consultants
9.         The consulting firm would provide specified engineering and other
services in Wadis Zabid and Mawr.  The firm would propose the ntmnber of
specialists to be deployed in performing these services and would support
the team assigned to work in YAR by hoi-e office specialists as required.
The firm would also provide in-service training to the counterpart and other
staff provided by TDA.
10.        Terms of Reference for Wadi Zabid Works.  The terms of reference
for the consulting firm for Wadi Zabid works are as follows:
(a) assist TDA in continuing hydrological observations;



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(b) review existing available data concerning field conditions and,
if required, ontain additional data necessary to prepare designs
and specifications for the diversion weirs, cannl improvements
and extensions, rebuilding of damaged structures andi construc-
tion of new structures;
(c) review the preliminary planning and engineering carried out by
Tesco for the feasibility report including the p-oposed designs
for diversion weirs, intake regulators and sluiceways and prepare
detailed designs, dirawings and specifications for ten diversion
structures uith associated river training works;
(d)  prepare designs and specifications for training works to protect
Wadi banks at locations vulnerable to frequent flood attacks;
(e) prepare designs and specifications for;
(i)  improvement of inadequate sections of existing canals,
(ii)  reconstruction of damaged structures on existing canals,
(iii)  construction of new secondary canals and canal extensions,
(iv)  constructic,n of regulating structures with field turnouts on
existing canals and new secondary canals and canal extensions,
(v)  corstruction rr regulatcr for Haram canal and connection to
Barry canal, and
(vi) installation of radio network for optimum utilization of
Wadi floods;
(f) prepare contract documents for inviting bids under internationial
competitive bidding and organize tendering for the civil works on
the basis of the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits - April 1972, revised in October 1972";
(g)  assist TDA in evaluating bids and make recommendations for award of
contracts;
(h) check layout of the works by the contractor at site;
(i). supervise with the assistance of appropriate TDA staff the execu-
tion of the civil works incltded in contracts;
(j) verify the work performed each month and certify payments due;
(k)  prepare a plan for distribution of water to replace the existing
allocations of vatious canals and prepare regulations and in-
structions for the operation and maintenance of completed wo.Ks;



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(1) train TDA staff to carry out operation and maintenance of completed
works;
(m)  prepare alignment routes, drawings, specifications and contract
documents for the construction of:
(i) about 50 km length of double track (6 m wide) gravelled roads,
and
(ii)  about 87 km length of single track (3.5 m wide) roads;
(n) prepare drawings, specifications and contract documents for the
construction of buildings required for the project;
(o) organize tendering for the roads and building contracts on the
basis of local tendering, assist TDA in evaluating bids and make
recommendations for the award of contracts;
(p) supervise with assistance of TDA staff the execution of the roads
and building contracts, verify the work done and certify payments
due each month; and
(q) prepare a plan for the installation of up to 35 tubewells in the
western part of the project area to replace existing dLg wells
and/dr to supplement spate water supplies, after studying all
groundwater investigations already made in the Wadi by Tesco.
11.       Terms of Reference for Wadi Mawr.  The consulting firm would assist
TDA in establishing access and camp facilities and would conduct explorations
and investigations leading to the preparation of a feasibility study. The
I.er:,s of refereace are as follows:
Access and Camp Facilities
(a) prepare drawings and specifications for the construction of:
(i)  about 60 km length of double track (6 mw ide) gravelled access
road from Sirdud to Azzohra camp site, and
(ii) residential and other buildings including water supply and
electrification facilities at Azzohra;
(b) organize local tendering for the above works, evaluate bids and
make recommendations for the award of these contracts; and
(c) supervise execution of local contracts for ac-cess road and camp
facilities, verify the work done and certify pavments due.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Groundwater Investigations
(a)  prepare detailed specifications and tender docuwients suitable
for use by TDA for procurement by international competitive
bidding of:
(i)  one combination cable tool-rotary drilling rig capable
of drillia:: to depths of 300 -mn high capacity water
wells, toget:.er witi com.plate set of tools, spare parts
and auxiliary equipmuent for installing casings and
screens and _vs lopini and testing discharges of up
to,60  Isec;
(ii)  sucb s. es rm i'      J in! lengths of well casiaigs and
screens .           for about 3.J weils in the first
iustance (anl for additional 31i wells later), based
on critical arIdlVsis of existing dat3 on well con-
structioni and dquifer condi riens in the fihLama:
(b)  assist TDA in  X.val i.iing 'ids receivedi for (i) and (ii)
and tmake recor%neni(datiens for award;
(c)  r.ake surficicent a-rei.ininarv surveys and contour maps; fromi
the availaDle derial pnorographs and iaLips to allow plantning
of ground-water f-ctsi!e.litv study;
(d)  prepare seni-detailud soil survey and land classificatior.
.:aps according to USSR standards Lo a scale of 1:20,000
tor the area beirt  co.sidered tor . roujndwater de1velop,7ent;
(e)  select ana stake on tne 'round tne locations oF about 60
wells in a r:;anner toit wouLa provide hydrogeolok'ic and
7eopnysical ldt.i tor iuenzification and evaluation of pos-
sible ground;:cer ueveiopment sub-areas located alon, the
bounijary of existinag spate-irrigated area;
(f)  provide one ,.ast.r uriller exp-rienced in well drilling,
developing and testing techniiiues for carryin, out these
operations;
(g)  develop desisns ara specific.ations for the welis to be
dIrillel under tnie feaisibility progrart, after studyin,g the
results of drillini already carried out in the Tihacma;
(h)  construct up to b0L t.St wells by force account  ntder the
direction and 3unervis`on of the master driller and develop
and test the co-pJete d wells aloni', with necessarv inter-
ference tess:s;



ANNEX 6
Page 7
(i)  make sucn down-hole geophysical logs as are necessary to
analyze tne perforrianct of the wells and the characteristics
of the aquifers; analyze results of testing at each location
and revise designs, corstruction procedures or locations of
remaining welis-as necessary to optimiize the study;
(j)  convcrt the feasible and tested wells into production wells
and prepare s?ectficationis for the required pumps and
engines;
(k)  design and advise the ianrers in construction of water dis-
tribution systeris fror.m tile production wells;
(1)  monitor operating wells and associated observation wells
for performance data, aquifer characteristics anl reaction,
and water quality;
(m)  assist T,)A in collection and analysis of land tenure data,
sharing of costs and henteiits between owncrs and tenants
and perfori a.;ricultural and economiiic benefits of the wells;
(n)  evaluate methods oF, make recompendations on, and assist
TDA in establishing a suitable ma.intenance program for the
wells;
(c)  make such studies as are necessary to quantify the recharge
available for developnent in the aqutifer(s); ani
(;)  prep.are a renort to Include a description of all work done,
a cricical anaLysis of weli desiin an'i construction methods,
ar analysis of tht -oscs and CCOfl()IfitC re.isibilicy of both
t:he work jperfor.med land possible further development and
make recao:endations on scope of further developmetit in-
cluding location and design of wells and cost and economic
anialysis.
'iurface gater Investigat1erns
(a)  Lstablish rainfall st;itions in the .'adi catchirnt. necessary
to provide nydrologic datta neetdel for the feasibility study;
(b)  instail two autoinatic ,auge recording stations at suitable
locations oa the Wadi andi develop a gauge-discharge relation-
ship at the two loCaLions by discharge neasurement;
(c)  measurc and analyze suspended sedinment and bec load carried
by the Wadi Flows at various sta.;es and in various seasons;



ANAEX 6
Page "
(d)  ma'e sufficient preliminary surveys and prepare base waps
from the available aerial photographs and maps to allow
planning of canal alianmients and location of diversion
structures for the feasibility study;
(e), make reconnaissance of upper reaches of the wladi to deter-
mine the possibility of developing surface storage, and
develop feasibility level designs anld cost estinates;
(f)  prepare seiai-detaiLel soil survey anii  land classification
maps according to US6R stAndards of the area bein,; considered
for ievelop.ent by surface water to a scale of at least
I . o,odO;
(g)  carry out preiinia.try plaauing aLniu1 cu.ineerint- to establish
an overall irritlaticn systeM co=m.nading maximum possible
area wihich can be sustained by the flows availabile in tne
i;adi with miAninum number of snitably located diversion weirs;
the canal svsten s.houll nave an adequate num:ber of regulating
structures, drops _nti tinruuts orpr optimisinv irrigation
froi. available water.
(h)  .eterriiae the areas, co.itiL,uous to t;k area proposed to be
irrigated solely -y ivaiia!)ie sutriace water, whic6  coull
receive surface wate. occasionally if tne nroposed canal
system was cxte,id:.- to suari are.:s and wnere such irrigation
would iiave to De supple. eatei by aevelopnetir of groundwater
and deterrAine  .et.'er in such areas suitable qu.tlity ground-
water was Avai an ie annd couldi be deve1loed,
(L)  propose a plan !or irrigation o: arcas .3efinea in (h) by
joint use cf surface and groundwat:er with extensions re-
quired in the canial systexa and nu.nber of :.ell  required to
suppleient surtace wdter along with tne cost oi such
d.evelonnent;
(j)  3ssist r:)A in collection and an,a.ysis of Lan-I tenire data,
s.iarinj ot costs and benefits between owtners and Lenants
and peroron agricuLtural studies to evaluate ecoriomic
benefits of the proposed project;
(k)  estimate zinimal requirement of a conruunication network
linking key rainfall stations in ti)e 'Jadi catchrient wich
diversion weirs and headquarters;
(1)  ;!taie recormendatirns on the basis of investigations carried
out and studies .:.ade for tile develonmentt of surface water
irrigation ia Wadi Mawr; and
(n)  prepare interimT and final feasibility renorts iincluding
cost estimate, construction schedule and economnic analysis.



ASNi'X 6
Pa-e 9
12.        The consulting firm would carry out its 'uites primarily in YAR.
The firm  would also advise and assist TDA in the orocurement of all ilydrolovic
geophysical, survey and other equipment required for tbe project.  All docu-
ments and renorts woul.I be prepared in English an,. che metric system would
be used in all work.  The firm would pren:pre and submit the following reports
in 15 copies to TDA:
*;adi Zabid
(a) a progress report at the end of each quarter, giving a
descriptioni of the teui's activities during the reportili,
period, progress of works contracted and payments certified
and an indication concernin;, the oiannei employnent of the
team during the subsequent reporting period;
'1adi Mawr
(b)  an inctption report containing tie pro-rram of1 ex.<dorat,ry
%rk and studies within two ralOatns of tne startii.n  date;
(c)  a progress report at the enn of e.ch quarter  -i.in, a
description of tae team's activiLies .!uria- t'ie reportii.u-g
period, propress of wnrks, investigations, e::plorations
and stuaies and an indjc-.tio.i concenrin.; tht: ninanPec' f?.-
-!)loy-nent of tne tewa durin. the subsequent rePortii- p9rio,d.
riue pro-,r,-ss renorts shouic also include findinSs of tae
consultant on any investigation completed during the period,
and
(d)  a feasibility report oa t'he concLusion of tihe .uro.ra.
13.        RespcnsibilitLIs of TDA.  [rne responsi6ilities of TDA 41oun ae a
follows:
(a)  assign to the consultin- firm Yemeni technical ncrsonnrl
and supporting office andz *ieldJ staff for the execution
of the project;
(b)  provide, withiout cost to the firm, reasonably fu.rnisne2
office and residential accormm.odation at thy project
headquarters i;i :;adi Zani]io.a  in ;.adi taxr, or in any
nearby towni or Government or ThA Carmp;
(c)  provide transport venicles for use by Lnte tirr's persoanel;
(d)  provide to the firr details of all work d.one nrior to the
consultant's arrival; and
(e)  proviAe to the consultant all office e-uin-,eat, surviy aind
drawint instruLnents, and niydrolovic equinnent previously
procur ed or mutually agreco.



ANLJEX 6
Page 10
14.       'eerms of Reference of Specialist Consultants far Creciit.  Thle ter-ms
of referenice for the two specialists to be provided for agricultural credit
would be as follows:
(a)  assume the management and executive responsibilities of
the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACr);
(b)  advise Govern-cenL on appropriate lending rates and .issist
ir. draftin,, the subsidizary loan azi!reei:cnt;
(c)  advise and assist. Central i;ank in foriaiulatin., rhe policy
for tne organiLation,  tdministration, operaLions adid
developnent o0f ACF and plan and put into operation win ac-
countilu; System,
(d)  train Yenieni ;,ersan.el to assu,-ie  k.ndgement o. ACI  .nd
train staff at different levels in ..ii aspents of a4,,ricul-
t-ural credit work;
(e)  ory,anize and d!irect .)raacii ofticos of ACF  v'nich wouk
extend loans to tarmers and enterpi:ises wit'Iin tsiit tirŽa
oi influence of '?DA;  .)ian aii  i.plc-enL aa Ct.0CLiive
ioaiL  appraisal      t-i bpervision svste.r inclu lin. Iraftin,,
loan application  forns- plan and 'put into ooeratioa aa
erfective collection  syster for loan reDayrients;
(f)   assist the Gover:nmcnt in  lanai-' Lhe iLutIre tra:.i'fer ot
ACF into a neriaanent n3tioialn   a,ricultural crenit insti-
tLUton. in,'
( , -* tablish w.orking, relat:, .ns anti coor.lination. wit;l all rl
vant offices of Gover7,neitt. .iDA a:lv oth-r uIic sctor
entities en;aged in agricuJtur-il deve'opIAent ta tIny count ry.
1.3 .      Consultants' __Mapower.  The :,icipower requiren&,wnts ,  tuIe  :o:su1li r
firm- and ot:;er specialist consultanLs are 4ven  it! Table 1



ANNEX 6
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJEC?
Manpower Requirements of Consultants and Advisors
(onoulting Firm                   N.  72/73  73/74  7?4/75  75/76  76/77  Total
…man-months - - - - - - - -
Wadi Zabid
Project Manager               1      4       12     12      12      12      52
Design Engineers              2      6       24     16                      46
Specifications Engineer       1      3        9    -                        '2
construction Eng,neers       1-2    3        i2     24      24      36
Senior Draftsman              1      3       12      _       _      _       '5
Subtotal                          19       69     52      36      30    2(16
'&idi Mawr
ivil Engineer                 1              12     12       9              33
Jesign Engineer               1                      12     12       3      27
Tubewell Engineer              1              8      12                     20
Master Driller                1               6      12                     18
*ieohydrologist/
Hydrologist                  1      3       12     12                      27
Sails Specialist              1              12                             12
Agriculturist                 1                      12                     12
Zconomist                      1                      9      6              '5
Subtotal                           3       50     81      27       3    16l4
Total                               22     119    133       63      33    370
Specialist 'onsultants
Rasearct: and Extension  )  2-3              18      30     30      15      93
Specialli ts             )
Cwredit Spee,alists           2              12      2L     24      12      '2
Specialists (Short-term)                      6       6                     12
Subtotal                                   36     60      5L      27    177
Advisors                         2             24      24      24     24      96
GPAND TOTAL                         22      179    217    1L1       84    643
-   _-   -  



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
1150VEFINMfEN  OF VEMELN ARAB IIEPUhl I. 
Tlhanil DevPlopnlent Ajtho|te ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     Maag#
co~~~~~~~.  
0,         D.,ect.,                                   Ad--11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rew~rAgcUua
Assistan ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~on ir M, .geng
S   nOOtev,s,                                      Co,,stncAgo S-o-g C                                                                                                                            ac.dA,.
Seroce ~~ Mon                        Chars||*|@X|s@ e|@@§@@
Ma.                         . ii nO *Ot
Hyilg                                             I _                           .               __I                                                       _. 
S-- R.sg            |              _o S,,tod                                    _n P.    'it: _:'R
- lod n         |
-te-c oe8 t-Mss.g
e osic.on1_                                          ueel4_                                         ll                            -              ass9           l|                         .csn   n
SueW  o                                          ost co                                                                                                                         |       019   cl e



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCI ION SCHEDULE FOR WADI ZABID WORKS
YEMEN AR. FISCAL YEAR July 1 - Jun1e 30
ACTIVITY                                                   _                                _____________
1972 73          1973 74             1974 75            1975 76            1976 77
PREPARATO01Y ACTIVITIES
Selection ot ComunqF,,m        ____                             _                 ____                  _____              
Plaritltri    alti(    Desq, i *i |
Preparation of Ten(der Documents                                                  I--0       --
B'dd,ng and Award of Contract                                                          -   U                          -
CONSTRUCTION OF MAIN WORKS
Wctrs and Associdtedl Works                      _______                                             EUREE                          E    .U       *3.
Canal Improvernent and Constructio                               __I_____                                UE_                            _     _
Structures on Canals $-                                       ___ ___.U
Flood W arning Radio Network                                                                                    -
CONSTRUCTION OF OTHER WORKS
On-ll etaR)|nel -N                                                                                                             U.k    .      __....__ .... RU U M
Tubsevell Contrt ucu Ion                                                                                             *E                  MENU
Servoct'.fid Fatm Rodds                                    j*                  E                   _ ;                                   __J___
Bu1ld11hS
P,oject Year                                                    2                  3                  4                  5
%iVvd Ba--k 7171R1-



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEASIBILITY STUDY SCHEDULE FOR WADI MAWR
YEMEN A.R. FISCAL YEAR July 1 - June 30
ACTIVITY                                                               .
1972-73              1973-74             1974-75              1975-76
GROUND WATER
Procurement of Equipment and Materials                                                         *      *****                                 J
Geophysical Investigations
Exploratory Well Drilling
Development and Testing
Soil Surveys         _ __ __                                                          l                                   w ___-
On-farm Development
SURFACE WATER
Hydrologic Data                                                     _      _                    *
Mapping and Surveys
Damsite Reconnaissance
Planning and Design of Irrigation System
Agrciiltuial and Economic Studies
FEASIBILITY REPORT                                                                                      ___________
PRELIMINARY WORKS
Access Road                                                                                     fIRUU5U
Buildings and( Facilities                                                                                     U          ____                  _      _    _
Ptojoct Year                                              12                                        3 
Wo"ld e.   7170(R)       r



YE111 A.kAB REPURLIC                   ANNEX 8
TIMAMA DLvEML MN? PPOJECT
Cost Estiate
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Frei n    Total   Exchange
*WADI 7Aels                                                   :==~~Uirm____     -------,_ _ 
-s:ve-r:in '*r: ard4
-r.ter tion Works             4.14     7.71.    11.88      0.92     1.72       2.614     65
an    v ird fyteo!si.lns     1.98      1.96       3.96     0.1404    o.84L     0.6        50
aYr1 'tr%ctures              3.15      4.72       7.87     0.70     1.05       1.75      60
-Lld'o 'et-work               0.05      0.27      0.32      0.01     O.06       0.C07      86
Irt3 )t Ruildjings            0.99      0.50      1.h9      0.22     0.11       0.33       33
ie-vlce   Farm. Roads         1.03      0.99      2.02      0.23     0.22         Li 
iub Total                  113L.   16.20       27.54      2.52     3.60       A. 1-     59
:Ana rA::i&ilt1on              0.149        -       0.149    0.11         -      0.11        -
.-___;rient                    0.09      1.94       2.03     0.02      0.43      0.1L5      96
kr-E:xeering 4 A*inistrmtimn
Adin'J tration t Training    3.L7       0.76       4.23     0.77      0.17       o.94      18
Agricultural Re.earch &       0.99         -       0.99     0.22         -      0.22        -
Exterp on
Oonstlting Firm               0.81      3.06       3.8      0.18      o.68      o.86       79
Specialist 'onasultints       0.90      3.87       4.77     0.20      o.86       1.06      81
Sub-total                   6.17      7.69      13.86      1.31     1.71       3.08      56
T.'t;' - Wadi Zabid          18.09    25.83       h43.92     402     5.74        9.76       59
WADI MAWR
. vil Wort s
tell Drilling                  0.50     0.27       0.77      0.U1     o.o6       0.:L7      35
Access Road                   0.90      0.90       1.80      0.20     0.20       0.140      50
BL:aietgs                     0.67      0.27       0.94      0.15     o.06       0.21       29
Sub-total                   2.07      1.414      2.51      o.46     0.32       0.78       41
Equipmert                      0.09      2.57       2.66      0.02     0.57      0252        97
Xdm rte tg,t Administration
.4Ttra inbir                 1.49     0.49        1.98     0.33      0.11      0.144      25
Consulting Firm               0.94      2.2        4.36      0.21     0.76       9 L        78
Sut-total                   2-43      3.91       6.34      04       0.87       1.41       62
TOTAL -   dl M.avr            14.59     7.92       12.5'.    1.02      1.76      2.78       6
AJ RIULTUtL.1AL CR£EDIT
Wadi .Mawr Well Puaps         0.18      0.95        1.13     0.04      0.21       0.25      814
Wadi Zabid Wells              0.49      1.98        2.47     0.11      0.44       o.55      80
Farm machinery                0.14      0.67        0.81     0.03      0.15       0.18      83
,n-fArm rsvelopment           1.35      0.90        2.25     0.30      0.20      0.50        40
Proressing-Storage            0.99      3.96        4.95     0.22      0.88       1.10      80
,ner-mentai Inputs            0.13      0.-5        0.67     0.03      0.12      0.1S       80
.,iab-totaiI                3.28      9.00      12.26      0.73      2.00      2.7        73
TCrAL 'os                    25.96      42.5       68.71      5.77     9.50      15.27       62
r)^ % * ';. E, NO r.
!,-sicsl 71              2.25      3.37        5.62     0.50      0.75       1.25       60
Price    72                   1.1.9                14.42     2.3       0.65       0.98       66
ISubttotjl                  3.74      6          10.014    0.83      -L.O       2.2       6
;A%1, rOTAL                  .?.70    45.05        0.1,      6.60    10.90      17.50       62
- 'Ot of cost exceot 4ri,-uItural -rveit.
At  5':% per ar.,J. cpounded.



7tIE0 40IA0 EtlOSLIt-
g.t te ;e C- vi,Asd.Le *( tC-selic-,
0402t.4 Cot .972                                                     4 .. tits1    0 ..4   ... . .... 1o10        . 477
Ilo  I   a1lm      toiol       l         tl ru   LLh   lemt   texl    10l  Imom              it    1mm   1&a"    Toi
WADI :Ullr
1. C1tll 
of,te  Vair n d 7,.0... _. 2o.-4                      0.62      1.77      2.U4               *        *                         0 * 0 7   .5t     0.5        0.3      0.14     0.°
C_le C             b C _ e s_                  o>X.             0.4 0                         -       . '                       0 20    0.19 0.1             0.70     0 14      0.0
C_l s,.tm.                                            O .0                                                                                        :..0I o1     010    02U  O   0o  0)70  o.n
lat. u      k                                                                                                                                      0et".01  0.00  0.07  -  *  .     0.01  0.00
75.00 0.d5      4                                     0.27      0.        0.21  C                              05 :C   0.2                  -        -          .
04       .  7    tUsA.".                                                  2°4                                Lai       La  _             LAL °     .E._ __
54.-t.002                                        !JZ            L      aQLi                  ...       L              L      a L             LbI    LJA   IAI   Lit
P.  I~~~~..AonI.oi2.Im ~~~~~~~~Lu                                2-LI                               2.-.. ft  ....     La        .        .-         -        .  
2.  bolinij   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                        04 2fl                        .      2       2-1       LUL       U-1j   0.7           -
A&d.t ....  .. s.d t*.L.t.9                           0 11      0.51      09              0.00               0.520     0 04     0.30    0.0       0.10s      0.61    0.20
U1.1.o20...O     d,  .  R.Coo,*0S               0.7 n              0?                  .       .      0 0*.              0 00              0.04                0004
*.4 71` 0.11                                                                              0.0_    0.0_        0.        _        0       0          _        0 4                0
0-000.21.  rim...                                                I1                                          00        0.531    0.04    0.2       0.00                 .4       00
5"-Coul                             ~~I I'    LU7       LOt4            LU       L.        LU          1           4   L LU  2-li LU LI     O       q.n       2 l
T.) V4         4                                                               0 0402    U   0.     4    07          0.       0. 7     0.        1       2 1           0.72          0_94
5.  0100t works
Wall5 _2tO11OU                                         0.05     0.04       0. .7                              0.05              0.03    0.U0      0.02       0.02
A.-   M10.A                                           0.00      0.00      0 40                               l0.       0*                   -.
04114153.                                             Lii       La        LA              2-1      ....      LIZ       L.91     ....     ....      ..
0.6-0t..1                                        °o.o      0.22      0.1U            0.0)    0.05       02 05     t.       0. 0°1    0. 0     Q)f°
2.  Uv             1                                         02       0.5 0      .0.            0_       ___        0.07       47              °0        °
,.  0..0sri.  mg
Ad.i 1t9-Ci0t .11                                               0.25       0               0.05               0.04     00a       000    0.00      00Q                  0.* .
C-ttl.s                                               0.2        . 20    057 _* L0                            LU    LU& 0         XI  L           Lo    LA    LA    LU 
&*0t-.t5                                         LR    LZ    L4                      L.U L  LU    L a5   LiI L0.2                            LAI L_  °LA   La
T2..1  04d1  0s                                              I.57      I 14      5.70             0.0    0. 0       0.50      0.       0.7)    0) 0_1               0        0 _      0_  _
3. IlSt      mflUt_41 tZl
W.402.  22.2 Wall   -.                                 0. 0*    0.23         Ps0                                                0 0.    0.55       0 0f        to0 
W44d Uld- Wells                                        O.7      041        0 55              .                  .        .      0                  0.00      0.        0.       0 07
P._ 070220.wOS 0.07 01L                                                    O id                              a 00 S        00    2.01    0.07      0.01      0 04
dS  tl  210s7.                                        0 .0     0 00 21   30 SP               -                 0               C 0 10    0.03     0 0?      0 P          s
tt0r...s1.1 dl put. ^Wl                                0 11     0 as.                                           0 0 SS1         O It  -  -        O O?                0U        0
0.6 .P. O l                                       0        L 0   U   El 0             ___.    _.        000       111      Q0 0  0i                     Q 0         1      I0
1*0. Co<.--.   E                                                          ..L2             LU4  0  0.I0                L  I      L       t          0 Z      93  0       'I              *
73'Y.1..2   1At 3 V]  0   ,7                                                          _O                        I 0                 1  0   O 1 0 5   0- .; °              7& _   _
sjb  l                o '1      2 ro      2 2 '            _        _        o oe      o t      Uz~ -.   '.o       :2.4      L)2s      2-1'     °
504.20 77145                                                 .3 ..                                        3                                                                  zi 2   20 s25
SA-t.-O.9_    W-                                                                                                                       *      r*        0 50     0-k        "  *
GUAII  TOtrAL                                                  8 Q         $          N3!        1                        -     2;                  '                   7          S     ,,I
J  A, In% ..3 7;t t..*pt A;ttir  jr.I Cr. ..7
7    5: ,         .> rX.,nCO,*Un7,4



ANNEX 8
Page 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Annual O"M Costs
Estimated
Annual Cost
o.  O   I Staff                                                  Y- ls
General :4anrzger, 1    ` R15s 2,000 p.m.                        24a,00
Senior :.ngineer, 1 ' YUls 1,500 p.m.                            18,000
Junior Engineers, 2 :A T.is 1,000 p.m.                           24,000
Administrative Officer, 1 A) YRls 1,000 p.m.                     12,000
Senior Agricultural Officer, 1 4 YR1s 1,500 p.m.                 18,000
.unior Agricultural Officers, 2 d MR1s 1,000 ?.m.                24,000
"ngineering and Agricultural Assistants                          48,000
8 ; '.Rls 500 p.m.
!0lerical Staff, 10 X T.ils hOO p.m.                            48,000
'adio and Gate Attendan's, 10 I Yi3s 250 p.m.                    30,000
Drivers .-, Peons, 10 . YR1s 200 p.m.                            24i.,0
cub-total                                             270,000
B. Miscellaneous
'Žperation and Maintenance of Vehicles, 5 -                      24,000
*,is hrjO p.m.
Jffice Expenses  Y.Rls 2,000 p.m.                                24,000
S-u-total                                              ,48,000
C. Maintenance
Diversion weirs and Canal Structures                            125,000
'"anals and Roads                                                150,000
Radio Network                                                     3,000
huildings                                                         9,000
Sui-total                                              187,000
Total (YTis)                                                    5(5,000
(US"$ Equivalent)                                         112,200



ANV'NEX 9
Page  1
(EMEN ARAtt Fri8FiPT,
TIHK'A DEVEMlOPMJNT PFR(iECr
Detail of 2,ontracts
Estimated Cost
Item                                           US$ Million
A.  Contract to De awarded follow"ui
Tnternational caipetitive biqdi.ng
Wladi Zabid Irrigation -Works                            5.34
Ii.  Ccontracts to be awarded followin,r
loca. ccipetitive bidding
W:,di ?,abid buir4 ngs                                   0. 33
'tadi Z''bid roads                                       0. Z:-
W'! ii '%wr buildtngs                                    0.21
;..i i 'œawr road                                        O .hO
Subtotal                                          19
lotal Cost of contracts                          6.73



ANNEX 9
YEMEN ARAB REYUBL1C
TIHAMA DgVEIOPDMWr FR I
Procurement of Equip.nt and aterials
Item                                        quantity      Cost CIF Hodeidah
A.  -quipment emd Materials to be                                        US$
procured folowin  neF=oa
Vehicle, 4 wheel drive, long chassis                  12          60,000
Vehicle, 14 wheel drive, regular chassis              18          81,000
Truck, 5 tot,                                          4          32,000
Pick-up truck, 3/4 ton                                14          20,000
Motor cycle                                           16           8,000
3ulldozer, 140 hp                                      3         115,000
heeled tractor lj5-65 hp with squipment                5          50'000
Motor Grader, 120 hp                                   3         108,000
Drilling rig and accessories                           1         120,000
Casing and screen pipe                                           135,00
Generator set                                          1          60,000
Air (:ompressor with tools                             2          18,000
Cai.y equiprent                                                   18,000
Test purmps and engine?                                2          18,000
Concrete mixer                                         2           6,000
8149,OO0
Assembly and transport bo site                             31,000
Sub-total                                                 880,000
Item                                      Quantity        Cost
J. Specialized tools and equipment to        .US$
be imported by T2A.
Survey equimen'.                                                  20,000
Hydrological equipment                                            16,oo0o
Geophysical equipment                                             10,000
dorkshhop equipment                                               30,000
Cffice equipment                                                  24,000
labox atory equipment                                             30,000
Farm equipment                                                     5',O
rocls and equipment for wells                                      5,00v
Sub-total                                                 1140,000
.  rquLent and materials that may be
available locally.
Diesel pump                                           .4          3,00O
Miscellameous office supplies                                    10,000
laboratory supplies                                               5,000
Farm supplies                                                     2,000
Sub-total                                                 20,000
TOTAI                                                  1,O40,00Q
/ Includes Cost of spare parts at 15$-20%.



AN'EX 10
1EfMEN ARAJ REPUBLIC
TIHTAA DEvTELOwz'NT PROJF;CT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                          Cumulative Disbursement.
and Quarter                              at end or Ouarter
US$ Million
1973/7k
September 30, 197,                                 0. 25
flecenber 31, 1973                                 0.6c
:atrch 31, '1974                                   1.17
June 30, 1974                                      1.84
1974/7z
September 30, 197L                                 3.18
December 31, 1974                                  3.78
,,arch 31, 1975                             .      4. 78
Ju;le 30, 1975                                     5.53
1 75/76
.enteriter 30, 1975                                6.26
Diecember 31, 1975                                 7.08
Marcli 3,ii, 19?6                                   7.76
June 30, 1976                                      8.26
*   ,   Iz / 
;kertembcr 30, 1976                                8.76
!Dcember 31, 1976                                  9.22
iNarch 31, 1977                                    9.65
Jtune 30, 1977                                    10.14
19,77/78
.eptember 30, 1977,                                C.' 
Decer:t;r 31, 197i                                10.80
March 3;, 1978                                    10.90



ANNIEX 11
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPtLIC 
TIHAMA DEVEIDP-EYT PROJECT
Farm Budgets and Project Charges
Farm Budgets
1.        Farm budgets have been prepared for average farns under each of the
two types of private ownership in Wadi Zabid: (a) owner-operated 1.5-ha farm
locatet in a snate-irrigated area, and (b) tenant-operated 240ha farm contain-
ing mixedl irrigation system of spate, spate plus well, well only and rainfed
areas. The pesition of farm income for these two fnrn models under "without
and with project" conditions is presented in Tables 1 and 2.  The farm budget
for a typical 40-ha tubewell-irrigated, tenant-operated farm in Wadi Mawr is
given in Table 3.
2.        Due to various types of Waqf lands in Wadi Zabid and the complex
and differing patterni in w!iich the revenue and farming costs of these lands
aee shared between the !Waqf "!inistry, the heirs of the original owner, the
person managinj- the lnd, the welfare or religious institutions (named as
beneficiaries by the original owner) and the tenants, it is very difficult
to prepare farm budgets for such lands. However, since aLl Waqf lands are
farmedt by tenants in farm sizes that norrmally ran-e from 5 to 10 ha, the proj-
ect's effect on tenants' income would be of the same order as for tenants
of privately owned lands.
3.        The farm incomps analyzed in these budgets do not include income
from non-project-related agriculture (e.g. livestock) or non-farm income in
the project area.
4.        Cost and revenue sharing between landowner and tenant in both Wadis
Zahid and Mawr was assumed to be the same and in accordance with the existing
practice of 2/3:1/3 for spate-irrigated and rainfed lands and 3/4:1/4 for
well-irrigated lands.
Project Charges
5.        The total investment cost of the project in Wadi Zahid would be
recovered from the landowners and leaseholders of Waqf land over the project
lifetime of 50 years, at no interest.  The annual 0 & M cost for these works
would be recovered from all project beneficiaries - the orners, Waqf lease-
holders and tenants sharing this charge in the same ratio that other costs
ire shared.  These charges nre estimated to be:



_J.'EX_ 11
Page 2
(a)  YRls 71 per croppedi hectare in snate-irrigated area only, to
recover the invest;.ent cost: and
(b)  YRls 30 ncr hectare per year, to recnver the .maual 0 & H cost.
The actual char-es to be levifei by Govenrient woulti be dlecided, in coiisulta-
tion withi IDA.  ilhe rccoverv wtmul   start after one year's -race following
project completion.
e9.        At above-rmeationetd rates, th! project charges for a 1.5-ha owner-
operated farai would amiount to 2   of increnenil-  net iLooric  flnd 12.4;'t of
with project  net farn inicore (Table 1).  For. a'40-;ia tenant-operated farm,
Lhe project charges woul1 be 17.1 of incre;;ental inet inconre and 9.5i of 'iet
.nr.i incore.  For each of the 26 tcnants on such1 a farr, tLhe project ciharge
wouldt he 5. of his share of incremental aet inco.e and 2.4Z of uis share of
net farn. income.  The owner of the 240-ha  iarm uculJ pay 2;3,, of his share o1
incremental net iixorae and 14/ of his s.iare of nct &arm inicome (Table 2).
Discounted at 1';;, thia presenc value of the Dublic subsidy resulting irorn tne
above level of project charges would au.ount tc YRls 36.7 faillion (1;.2
million), or 76. of the i-tvestm.ent costs.
Fzrmers' Inco;e
7.         The average Lar1 iicore with the project in WadiL Zabid would roughly
double the incorne wit'lout the project.  For a 1.5-ha owner-operated fran, the
incremental net inco'lu after nayment of projj-ct charges would be l(O;.. of the
'.ithout project  nier inco-ie.  For a 240-iia tenant-operated ianil. the incre-
-ental net inco[.e after pay;.-:ut of pro.ixcC  charges wvuld 5e 10.3,, ot  nec  with-
out project  net inco' -.  Of tnis, the owner's sihare would be 125%; of .iis
.without project' net income and the share of each of the 26 tenants would be
_3% of his previous incor;e.
In Wadi Mawr, each tubewell-irri,ated 43-ha farTi would yield an
income of about Y,ls 72,U.J) (LSS1b,0)J    Assxnin-- that such a farin is culti-
vated by five tenantts (i ha per tennnt), each tenant would receive a net in-
uo.e o. Y'ls 3,OOJ ('S'71, 1130), whiil  tne owner would receive ail incor.e ef
Y'ls 47,100 (US$19,4Aiu; (Table 3).



AITNEX 11
TablA 1
;m! ud gt for an AveraZe rnmer-Crated  Fanm  of- 1.' ha cin                     te   Ar-
1    Ji  ;  'birrt Ine(,:e
'Jiithout Prc,ezt                                      ;.A th Pr.-ecl
's .er. >Y~ Yie I             cutnub                                        ;:: .     dl t;put    Un., : Pr- :e  -i. ir.n
-  TYT,   (ttern/1s   (tOl..t5) (573T    ha toia,       --       Ti .         s )           (T;.157
.;  , '. z   1 .''  '.t  U.9;8iE   '1t,    ,.c.^     t -        *.rt           3'           zt
*L ' '.-'   ,.,'.    ..'.g  !.1.. :',        ) .         .            ,,
* i!  .          U.t        1.'      LJdL'.         UC"                 ' .       _.
i WIOt'.1 K.!.J         '                        -,.'; ; i1.                   i.J- t                    1.
,,  1  1  .s-. 7 6 1 , .~~~~~~  *~
F. Prcducticn Cost
'si t.oUut F¼'c,-e^i.                        '  !.' P ro  ec'
_._      c, C,UL;                                       31
i t i,x  l  '  W  o  t'C  W G''  1  J {  -;
**'. i Le?  U l     .r¢ ce3t 
I ~~~~~~~~~~5773
e%tv~i .;,-c.ne                                     7.                                          1  ;2
To'    Vt',(,juct1on  %..Lt                                4___                                            ?~73
;-,Yc [.drx  Famil 4 i..Lbr                                 3c                                          1,
,r,.   :  i t '  )-.
r'. I '  et .iv     I                                     EO                                             7
LV ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~' L1,0!  ,-,,J '         ^ntI"      n oa
lncr'erneital~I .I i'.r  rje(flJj                                                                            ' 
Pro,;:'ct Charge:;
B?i1ance Jncome                                                                                           7Z
Frc. ec:  r Tharger ,is percent of;
(a) incremental Net Farm  Income
(b) Net Farm, Income                                                                                      12%



Va1F sl- zol
uDt ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ d Ze7ns
Cl-                        ACUL        ~       ~~~~         ~~__ wtS tt- ylx goP
.r-n  .i4                         28.2       0.9       25A          MUMah                60.6        t.7       103.0      S,OJyo     103,0So
**~~~~~~~~~~~~~!A                    1.1    ny1 61      5     -h                 -W         P.it0   S9.0                      59.C00
.. ^_tJrI ~~~~~~~~70A               .          61.8       se . . ..9 .8                     ,    1b 0                      SWa. L6.
'rs** Jn4                \~~~~~ ~~~~15.A  0.9  10%.2       33,865               tL2.8        1 5       169.2        125       51,9%1
,*,1 ,,, ,.p,.            ~~~~~~~q.9  1.        9.9         1,2L8                114.0      I.7        23.8                    7,3
.vt1~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                   1: 21.   1.0 ?1.       6,890                16.8       1.7        286          ,6+
ralnod ,,,~~~~~~~~~~~42              n.q Za1                  66 Z            >,6           0.7   2     % 1 
oW>o-l                 tSI~~~~~~~~15.1       W! *          ,635                146. L                223.,,''1"
-LYt .e                          68        C.7                   .5 z,11o              16.2       t.2        21.Y                    ,,i
wlLt.d  pb                     9 9       0.7        6.9         Z,243                 ?.0       1 1,        9.3        1.           . S
_11  n4                   ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~7.1  0.7  5.0        1,625 
fej~~~~~~~~~~~~i [5               n.l      _jt            .15A                           0.f         S.O5
^.*.Otzl           s*.3                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~36.'9  lt,n93          lS. I                    .                    .:
,>pte b;y   1';.9  *.3     22.0         7,\50                 5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2.o   56.~~A.4  12S 5 3
b4b.t.-X1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 1l4.6                   u,49n                 69.2                 to2.6                   )3j 34' 
o- t  =18                ~~~~ ~~~~~~8.5  0.6   5.1         5,*OQ                 14.0       0.9        L2.6                  I,a
LX > ,;te   ,         _          ,            .                   4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.2   t.0  .2z    x, w0  ,a
*1! "Iy                            7.I      0.d         5.7         S,700                ?,J        L.0         7.0                     ,.
t. ltd4                                       0.1       AA1           4pO                  1-_       0.5         ;>.7              
.tit^1                  t~~     ~      ~    ~~~~~~7.0  tt.2  It,200             26.6                  24.5                  24,f.'c
SrJnt- onl,7                        I         7.0        9 0         *,940                 *.2      1A.0o       58C                    4+
-11 t4X J"t.1 1.%                           IO.U       16.0         7,000                 2.6      M6.5         4-.C e,*.
::.vo s1                ~~~        ~        ~~~~~~7-0  fi5.8  32.90l0           12.6                 193.'                   .....
336.0                            204,043               360.0                                       -0.ol.l3
Cos ^-tw Ineo r r c_ )                              85 S23~~Bs bz
K>ss F~~~~~~~~~. t n. I Lid20..1*
rn-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%I 'Rb Ar_t
(R*I    (Yril^)         (Yl!t )               (tIM.          7*15 
wtr 1!1zex                   i~~~~~~ ~~~~ al7i  9336,        '63                  10'15to          3 t3zo         3.'5L
Fxnt PtOtWtlX               2,~~~     ~      ~~~ ~~73:  ewO  1,921               14 1259          *,30             89
.a.4,Lb-ou                            N3 06ez           1[           3e,062                45.2799            73           s'7
ft.ly  :or                           2k 972          2 972                .                  C-3            t  9 
K.ils  wot.                           31M3 o3                        3t3 °,4                37,ao  00                       l 7LQ
TotW                             It6,650          3,7             8,03178.721                            5a,61d        UN lo3
L~~          20.043            se 1.16L,  ~1.   L SWtt  L          hot              US,_
tn^  lffl °   lZiMt )      ~~~~~~us.ws       31,m             a?.073              17e 72X           5C.616        L28.101
ItII,Y  t=tr rsYntnzt   )   8~~~5.193      26,369            %az^4               222,Sa2         -6l6           I,g
rsik7y tbr trei                        A       211,m   2.972-                                30.193          3t0,1g8
2trt_t I    h,Ilot E.                 U0o,265          $1.3h 1          2.826                5,t              e,6           S,L
tB2tUIee theo_                                                      ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14,.615  41P,621 4A  94,994
W        3- li w *c_    th*r     -1w   ?witt2t@          U9-    t,tO,o77tdrted
I., wt   P-ttp"  7 -                                                                                                        23
-  r Z'  tr4i 1cm t,l                  lt        (at. ?,- lt-  qt_ _W-Wi_W
_12.    " -td     ,ttnd V.Wz/ r 3.e oot r **  lt.
?Stt-'u "A -c       ft?   1 O* tl ri-*  dr 1A,lA  -ti , 
t ". o 1*tr1-II'l   IA    N  13.2/   1t f- OorIwArr.



YnB         ARA  _    TAM
WAMI 5AW
Pam %     tfor-O hi  a t:g2ei   Tube.e11lPar
1.* Gros aw F In"
- Presnt ------ -              ------    uture With Project ----------------
Crcln        Areat   Y            t       v          Area    Yield       uniut    Unit Price    Value
TiwT   (Ator7        n      (a    {7 '           ( ) (-taw          ( ItonJ        (ThYs)
,otton           -       -         -          -         28      2.0       56.0        1,000        56,000
;orgl.um    -        -        -               -          16     1.7       27.2          325         6,8640
Mlillet         10      0.4        4        1,300         _      _- _325
.Maize           -        -        -                     1      22        26.4          325         8,580
Oilseeds         -        -        -          -           6     1.0        8.0        1,000         8,000
Others           -        -        -                            o6.0      64.0          500 0200C
Cot.al
2. Pgd 
------------Future--------------
Teaant            Owner' s
Present4a           Tota           Share               h-.
T -.er.                               (YR18s)              TTR-B          (     )              14Y  -it
ieed                                       70                956            239                717
Sertilizer                                                 2,060            515              1,S45
Fiant. Prctection                                          3,120            780              2,340
Miscellaneous                              iJ               ,216            304                912
.'ardiy Labor                            630               6,1tu          6,100
hired Labor                                                9,720            -                9,720
Punping Coat                                              17,4J0             -              17,400
>-kaRt Tax                               1                                1,418                 53
~~~ta1                                                     9~~~~~~~~~  ,374
.3. Inrnetl3Dqo-
-------------- Future -
Tenants'         Owner's
rresenti    b       Total           Share            Share
(mule)              (Xtf-l)        (T;13)            (YRis)
Gross Fanm Income                      1,300              113,42U         28,355/          85,065/4
Total Production Cost       d      b     j                 46.24       3 9      6          36.887
iJet Farm Income )
n.xclud:.ng Faadly )                    460                67,177         18,999           48,178
labor a-srning    )
iaraily Labor 6arning                                       6300           6100 l_6
Total 4e'. Farm Income                TO                   73.. 77       12
ILncremental Not )
'anrn Incc        )                                        72,10.         25,U99           47,088
A    Under prestiat. cond:tion farning done by  bhe owasr.
7f  -renats contribute 1/4 cost ot seed, fertilizer,plant protection, miscellaneous costs and
hakat. tax and all famidy labor.
/3   Cwner contributes 3/4 cost of sood, fertilisoe, plant protection, miscellaneous cost and
Zakat tax and all hired labor and pwqing coats.
Lis  Tenanr.s and owner share groas incone  in 1/4 i 3/4 ratio.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
YE'TN ARAB REPIBLIC
TIAMTA !)EVFLOPME'IT PROJECT
Mark~et Prosp~ects and Prices
1.        YAR exports cotton but is a net irporter of other agricultural com-
modities producetd in the project area including cereal grains and oilseeds.
All project otitput except cotton would be domestically consumed and none would
create any m '-Ling problens. Marketing prospects for individual cosmmodities
are as follow
(a)  Cott(  ~,e than tlhree-fourths of YAP's cotton produhction
is e.xport-... The incremental increase in cotton export due
to the project would be about 8,000 tons, which would catuse
*,o noticeable impact on the world cotton market.- Current
seed cotton farmgate price is about USS200 per ton (YRis
1,0)30) and is based on a lint yield of 32,  and a favored
market to the People's Republic of China.  Based on the
future international cotton market, it appears safe to
assume that this level of long-term farmgate price would
be maintained.
(b) Cereal grains - Scrghum, maize and millet would be produced
in the project area.  The bult: of the productlon would be
consumed in the villages whereas the surplus of landowiners
woul! be sold.  Ilowever, tiven the food grain sl.nrrages in
YAR, cereal grain output at ftill development (aboitt 17,00o0n
tollS of sorghtwn, 3,000 tons of millet and 9,000 tons of
maize) woul(d he entirely consumed domestically. No market-
ing problem is anticipated since this grain output coiujld
contribute to the import substitution of food grains.
(c)  Oilseeds - Sesame is the only oilseefl currently produced in
the project area and this situation is likely to continue.
Since YAR is currently importing most of its oilseed require-
ments, the project's oilseedt output, estimated at about 2,000
tons at full developmnent, would reduce the oilseed import
requirements by 1,000 tons.
(d) Vegetables - The main vegetables expected' to be grown in the
project area are melons, onions and tor-toes withi a tota].
quantity of abour 14,000 tons.  WJith tube4ell irrigation, other
vegetables could be grown. However, the market for other



A.NLX 12
P;ige 2
fruits and vepetables in the villages and Zabid is limited.
All vegetables produceia in tte project area are likely to
be consuned locally and in the nearby m.ajor town - hodeidah.
The iistallation of :i vegetable processir.- factory at Zabid
could contribute to the ir-port substiLution of comato iasCe
and other tinnel ve?etables.
2.        Reliable data on -narket conditions and prices are scarce.  In view
of the paucity of data and the fact that the project oltput *ould .ither be
exported (cotton), or would be contributiing to irport substitution, prices
used for estimating farmers' iacome and econonic benefits fron tile traded
items are largely based on tihe famgate value of international corumodity
prices provided by the Tride Policies and Export Projection Division of the
iaik.  thile the evaluationi of econor.ic benefits from the project's vegetables
outptit was based on the iarmi.ate value of international, markets, tiue estinates
of farmers' income fronm veg-etables were based 'n trie actual faniteate prices
expected to prevail in tiho project area.  The  Iarmgate nrices used in the
znalysis were as Lollows:
Con(noditv                 Financial                A:conomic
-----…    Ylls ner ton ---------
Seed cotton                 I,000                     1 ,'P)2
Cereal t;raia (x,e.,iItLd
average. of sorghull,
millet and mai ze)         325                       3 >5
Oilseeds                    1,000                     t,)!
Ve,e-ibles (wei6hted)         ;1)0                      350



ANNLEX 13
Page. I
YU'I. -ARAB ''E.°IiULIC
YltMiMA 1DEVELOP'1Ei.T PROJLCT
iconomic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
1.       TThe econoTric rate of return from the project, including costs of
l'adi .Mawr feasibility study, and costing only hired labor at iaarket wages
while the social opportunity cos.t of family labor is assumed to be zero,
would be 12.7Z.  This rate woul(d be increased to 14.9% if Wadi Mawr feasi-
bility costs were excluded from the project costs wlhereas the tubewell bene-
fits were included against tubewell operation and land-leveling costs in
vIadi Mawr.  A breakdown of the investment cost streams and the incremental
net benefit strearis for each nroject ccmponent uinder alternative assumptions
reFardini' s"cial costs of labor contribution in annual Iarming is presentedi
ill Lhe attache.! Table 1.  The bases of annual prociuccion costs and outputs
are prusente' in Tables Z-10, wlhile prices used to evaluate benefits are
)iven in. Annex 12.  NMajor assumptions and bases enployed in estimating the
initial econoric rate of return (12.74) include:
(a)  economic life of thie spate irri.ation works and tubewells
is assumed to he 0Q and 30 years, respectively;
(b)  thc- investment cost strear.i for th  WXadi Zabid corponent
preseiteti .i the .attached Table 1 includes capital invest-
nents inclusive of phvsical cnntingencies, land acquisition
for construction p'irposes, a'ricult'iral research and exten-
sien overhead costs, operation and maintenance of t.ie irriga-
tion works whicn is est£1mted at YPls 30/hi, and
farm service road. at Wadi Zabid;
cc)  social opportn:lity cost of family labor ruquirements was
a*sIMed to be- zero, other production inpiuts were co3ted
at culrrent prices; and nroject outputs were s'iadow-priced
at world :darket prices, adjusted to tann,ato values; and
(d)  full developrient would be reilized. in tCic 1th ;iroject: year
foir Wadi Zabid dnd in the 11th project year for ':'adi Mawr,
as shlown in tic detailed develope.uent rates rresented in
Tables 9 and 10.



AONIX 13
Page 2
L.        hlle results of the sensitivity tests are as follows:
Assumption /a                                       Lcononic Rate of Return
(a)  "he initial run                                                   IZ.7
Shadow-pricing all labor costs to zero                           13.4
(Costina  all labor                                              1 2'.2
(b)  L xcludiLnf Wadi Mawr feasibility costL                           14.9
(c)  6!.:di Zabid cni.poient only                                     12.7
(Jf)  ;:Idi l:awr co;-pponent only                                     12.6
(e)  A 20:. increase in net incret:ental
benefits stream from tIIe initial run                            14.9
A 20.- decrease in net increinental
beniefits screan from the initial run                            10.4
(r3  A 13. overrun Li invest:.lent costs from
the iniitial run                                                 11.7
A 1M,' reduction in investrent costs from
th.' initial run                                                 1l.9
C) Combination of a 20% reduction in net
incremental benefits stream and a 10%
investT'ent costs overrun from the initial
run                                                               94
Sabsequer.t to the above econoi;!ic aLialysis, the project; COSL estimate
to talc  !-r =ccount t'*  -  erct of US Dlollar tIevaltuation, w-3 to
* i::cide .finanxcial advisor for rD. at a cost ot 12O.2 :iillion..  The original
investntnt cost, excluding price contingency, inJluded iu the economic analysis
YRls '3.i r.illion and the revised investment rcst. after the above adjust-
--4 i.i, YRIs 74.4 miillion; a net decrease of YRls 1.1 iiiiiioti or 1.4,,.
PrUjcCt henefits included in the economic anialysis were also estimated prior
to US Doilar devaluacion, iupact of which on the benefits is impossible LO
quavitify.  Most of the project output would be dornestically consumed.  rne
in,pact of this slight decrease iLu the inlvestr;Cnt cost on tae economic return
et the project would be insignificant.
/ 4   Lkliess othierwise stated, treatment of labor is based on the initial
run, i.e. costinig hired labor at imarket wage rates and family labor
at zeru.



, ,,$~ ,oSE2e ,**-^^^*-a*e so sssesaso... e.eaee AAtL I'
^fi. F~~nnnn   nn nnfinna. S^t__    ^,"^^     ^ >      *    **            ***^*                 8
UAP      3.       --------finn                                                              finn_
{'Pllne4 '''4444 444 444gsafi 00000--00000_0._                                     000___
_J                       .    *^^^__^                      ^et_^_^^4 ___
- - fin$    r 4444444e  e44n4444444""F"e6"    *
*      ,       ,,* o 0 F_~____ ~~_              * P                                                 'nnl  *  '44  '~. '4
"44   40;srb  ;;;;;;;P;;;;;.
|    t ~          l444444444444
~iI                      infnfi oG Ornrbnfi_r nnnnnninf n__   ___r_nnffnr
,.........   54*~                                     ...   ....   .....
fI_   -  n_**.  . coe  *000000   00000   000000   0 00000  *e.X.
fi_ _^          S..4nnnnffinn**fn              n,fin*(o oF                 *FX    o*0 n   
-                                                                                                             ':;
73          * 00f4P.PP.    5*4 4eraW  _ trrrrnE  nr_rr_04rrrreWWWr_wbr
*~~~~~~~~~ U U 0.S
en: nwnn. a^_       ,.._~~ nnnnnnnnmt%nn.,nnaannRn.P°RRnn °                         nR  °°°R   £  4%
|~~~                                                      000000   0 _             0000o 
44.e  fin Rlnlnni. °.nfnnfn °n 8c.n.r  nnnnnnif
,   _  _  _                                                                    o        Y; tU~~~~~~~~~~~o 
YI                                                                                                                           _
~Sv     WI.lszr""ar- -a-^^^  S.Xz<¢ 



ANNEX 1 3
Table 2
7E!EN AUIR iFPU 3LIF
TIH;ANA DEV1ELO0ENT PHOJECT
WADI ZABID
Present Output
Cropped Area, Production and Value
Spate    Well l{     1 1
Only      Srate    Only       Rainfed   Total       Price        Value
Cotton                                                                Yrls/t  (1000 YRIs)
Area (ha)         2,000       _       2,200        -       4,200
Yield (t/ha)     0.8          -       1.?          -         -
Prod. (t)        1,600        -      2,640          -      4,24o0      1,O00     14,210
Sorghtum
Area(h-a)        8,200       600     1,200        400    13,400
vield (t/ha)     0.8         0.8     3.*        0.5          -
Prod. (t)        6,560       480        960       200      8,200         325      2,665
'Millet
Area (ha)         1,900      600    1',000      2, )000    5,00
Yield (t/ha)      0.6        0.6      0.6       0.4          -
Prod. (t)        1,140       360        600       800      2,900         325        943
Maize
Area (ha)        1,200        -         300        -       1,500
Y'.eld (t/ha)    1.2          _       1.3          _         -
Prod. (t)        1,440        -         390        -       1,830         325        595
Oilseeds
Area (ha)          600        -         100       100        800
Yieli (t/ha)     0.5          ^       0.7       0.3          -
Prod. (t)           300       -o70                 30)      1400       1,O0 oO4
Others
Arha)               100      100        200        -         400
Yield (t/ha)     6.0         8.0      8.0          _
Prod. (t)          600       800      1,600        _       3,000         350      1,050
"OTAL                                            ,8
Field Area      11,500    1,500/    3,000       2,500    17,000                   9,893
Hlarvested
Area          14,000    1,300      5,000      2,500    22,800
Intensity (,)      121        86        167       100        134
/1  Included in spate area.



ANNflEX 13
Table 3
YEWI ARAB REMML!
TIHAMA DEVLEP} PROJET
WADI ZABM
Fut  Outout Without Proleot
Cro*d Area. Production and Value
Spate      Well &      wel
Onkr       9pat1 OL               Ralnt       Total      Price        Value
(YRls/t)  (1000 YRIs)
Cot.ton
Area Tha)         2,0          -         3,000        -         5,000
Yield (tAa)       0.9          -         1.5
Prod. (t)         1,800        -         14,5                   6,300      1,000       6,300
are&(ha)          8,200        700       1,500        300      10,700
Yield (tAha)      U.9          1.0       1.0          0.5
Prod. (t)         7,380        700       1,500        150       9,730        325       3,*62
Millet
Area (ha)         1,900        700         50°      1 ,00       4,200
Yield (tA/a)      0.?          017       0.?        o.4                                  846
Paod. (t)         1,330        490         35U        440       2,610        325
Maize
Area (ha)         1,200        -         1,000                  2,200
Yield (t/ha)      1.3          -         1.6
Prod. (t)         1,560        -         1,600         -        3,160        325        1,027
Cilseeds
Area (ha)           600        -           500        100       1,200
Yield (t/ha)      0.6          -         0.8        0.3
Prod. (t)           360                    4 1400      30         790      1,000          790
Others
Area Tha)           100        100         300          -         50
Yield (tAha)      7.0       10.0        10.0
Prod. (t)           700      1 ,O0       3,000          -       4,700        350        1,645
TOTAL                             1
Field Area       11,500      1,50U       4,OO0      1,5U0      17,0O                   13,772
Harvest3d Area   114,03      1,500       6,800      1 ,50      23,800
Intensity t .,      121        100         170        100         1140
/I Included in opa. *n.ea.



-  t NUEX 13
YEMIEN AtRAB REPUBLIC
TIAMA DEELOPE.ED  T PROJECT
WADI ZABID
i4'uture CutDut With Proiect
Cropped iArea. Production and Value
Spate     Well <  Well
Only       Spate   Onlr    R:infed       'otal      Price      Value
YRls/t  (1000 YRIs
Cotton
Area (ha)        4,300         -      2,100       -         6,400
Yield (t/ha)     1.7           -      2.0          -
Prod. (t)         7,310        -      4,200       _        11,510    1,00^      11,510
Sorgh,um
Area   a)         8,000      1,000   1,200        200      10,400
Yield (t/ha)     1.5         1.7      1.7        0.7
Prod. (t)       12,000       1,700   2,040        1iO      15,880       325      5,161
millet
Area (ha)        1,300         500      -         700       2,00
Yield (t/ha)     1.2         1.4        -        o.6
Prod. (t)         1,560        700      -        420        2,680       325        871
?4aize
Area (ha)         2,000         500   1,000        -        3,500
Yield (t/ha)      2.0        2.2      2.2          _
Prod. (t)        4,000       1,130   2,200         -        7,300       325      2,313
Oilseeds
Area (ha)         1,000        300      500       100       1,900
Yield (t/ha)     0.9         1.0      1.0        0.5
Prod. (t)           900        300      500        50       1, 750    ],<)0      1,750
Others
Area (ha)           300        200      400       -           900
Yield (t/ha)     14.0        16.0    16.0
Prod. (t)        4,200       3,200   6,400        -        13,800       350      4,830
T'OTAL
Field Area       13,000         2,5001 3,000    1,000      17,000               26,4'95
Harvested
Area          16,900       2,500   5,200    1,000        25,600
intensity (,)       130        100      173      100          150
/1 included in spate area.



ANNEX 13
Table 5
YaIMEN ARAB RU-'UBLIC
TIHuMA. DEVELPMENT PROJiCT
WADI MAWR
Present and Future With Project Output
Cropped Area, Preduction and 'V'alue
1. Present
hrea     Yield      Production      Price     Value
Tha)    (tAiEa)         Tty3 ThIs/t  (1000 YRis)
Millet                    uuv      U.4          200          325         65
2. Future With Project
Gotton                 1,4huO      2.u        2,800        1 ,OOu     2,500
Sorghumn                 80(       1.7        1,360          325        h42
Millet                    -         -            -             -         -
Mziize                   600       2.2        1,320          32,        429
Cilseeds                 hOo       1.0          40O        1 ,000       4X
C th ers                 200      16.u        3,200          350      1,120
Total                  3,40 0                                          ,19g1



TYZEN ARAm mEPUiLTC
TIHAIA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WADr ZABZD AND MAWR
Unit Prnduction Costs Per Hectare
---- Cost of Inputs -----------         -         Cost of Labor       -         Total Cost --
Plant Pro-   Miscell-                              Without    With Hired    Witt All
Seed    Fertilizer       tection      aneous          Family    Hired        Labor        Labor         Labor
--------------------------_-------------- YRls ---------
;otton
Present                               10         -               -              2            as         130        12         142            227
Future Without Project                10         10              15             7            90         130        42         172            262
Future With Project                   12         30             60             20           100         210       122         332            432
Sornhum
Present                                7         -               -              1            63          92         8         100           163
Future Without Project                 8         -               5              2            70         110        15         125           195
Future With Project                   10         25             30             13            75         100        78         178           253
millet
Present                                7         -               -              1            63          92         8         100            163
Future Without Project                 8         -               5              2            70         110        15         125            195
Future With Project                   10         25              30            13            75         100        78         178           253
Maize
Present                               10         -               -              ^            63          92        12         104            167
Future Without Project                11          5              10             5            70         110        31         141           211
Future With Project                   15         25              30            14            75          90        84         174           249
Oilseeds
Present                                5         -               -              1            50          80          6         86            136
Future Without Project                 6         10              10             5            60         100        31          131           191
Future With Project                   10         40              30            16            75          90        96          186           261
Others
Present                               25         -               -              5            90         80          30         110           200      .@-
Future Witbou.. Project               30         20              20            14           100         90         84         174            274
Future With Project                   50         50              90            38           150        110        228          338          488



YE?ZN AIA5 REPUBLIC
TIIAMiA DOVETL4N  PRoJtC
Total ProductLon Costs
............... pt*#*St ................  ------- Future Without Proj*ct--------        ------uture With Projrct ..........
Unit Prod.                                     Unit Prod.                                    Unit  trod.
Area         Prod. Coot      F      jA                    Prod. Cost          Cost        Area         Prod. Cost
(YRION,T         (ha)         (1.000 TR!.)     (TIIs)iba        (ha)      (1.O00  YUl)       (T-l1/hs)      (ha)       (1.000 Yle)
t. Ittthot Labor
Cotton                                  12          4,200                SO              42       5,000             210               122     6,400               TSI
Sorgb_                                   a         10,400                83              IS      10,700             161                78    10,400               Si1
Millet                                   a          5,500                                i tS     4,200              43                78     2,500               19I
Idse                                    12           I,500                is             31       2,200              66                34     3.500               294
Oileeds                                                3 O0               5              31       t,2O0              37                96     1,900               182
Others                                  30            400             .34                           50            -a                  22   90     0 
Total                                                               212                                         Ml                                          2,466
2. Witbh Sitrd LbXor
Cotton                                 142          4,200               596             172       5,000             $60               332     4,400             2,125
Sorhtm                                 100          10,400             1,0 0            125      10,700           1,336               178    10,400             1,851
Millet                                 100           5,500              550             125       4,200             525               178     2,500               445
maize                                  104           1,500               156            141       2,200             310               174      3,500               609
OSleeods                                86             800               69             131        1,200            157               186      1,900               353
Otbers                                 i10             400               44             174          SO0             87               338        900               304
Tote!                                                             2,45s                                       3,277                                         5.6S7
3. With All LAbor
Cottoa                                 227           4,200               953            262       5,000            1,310              432      6,400            2,765
Sorghum                                163          10,400             1,695            195       10,700          2,087               253    10,400             2,631
Millet                                 163           5,500               897            195        4,200            819               253      2,500               633
Haite                                  :             1,500               251            211        2,200            464               249      3,500               872
Oilseeds                               136             800               109            191        1,200            229               2t1    1,990                496
others                                 200             400                99)           274.         500             137              4e9        900               439
Total                                                              3,995                                       5,04,                                        7.836



YEMEN AR:4B REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WADT MAWR
Total Production Costs
----------- Present --------------           -------Future With Project---------
1.  Without Labor         e                   s s,h a     .    Costs )        Ar-a                     trod, Yost
Cotton                      -         -                                1,400          122             171
Sorghum                     -         -                                  800           78              62
Millet                    500            8               4               -            -               -
Maize                       -          -                                 600           84              50
Oilseeds                                                                 400           96              38
Others                      -         -                -                 200          228              46
Total                                               4                                             367
2. With Hired Labor
Cotton                      -          -                               1,400          332             465
Sorghum                     -         -                                  800          178             142
Millet                    500            8               4L1             -            -
Maize                       -          -                                 600          174             104
Oilseeds                    -         -                                  400          186              74
Others                      -          -               -                 200          338              68
Total                                               4                                             853
3. With All Labor
Cotton                      -         -                                1,400          432             605
Sorghum                     -         -                                  800          253             202
Millet                     500          71              35               -            -               -
Maize                       -          -                                 600          249             149
Oilseeds                    -          -                                 400          261             104
Others                      -         -                -___________      200          488              9P ___
Total                                              35                                           1,158    CO
/1 No hired labor employed.



YtHN ALAN lI'tPLLIC
TiH{A3IA DevEWPWN  PRt7JLCT
WADI ZA9IO
fTotct Vrod"ccloo Crtbh Rate sod Be.tflt Strems
Prcductioe Crowtb                            Notrorc' dc  Prodrcltino With..c Labor    Iecroeeftcl Net prodoction Witc  Wired Labor             lermuntstol Not FProdvcton With All L, b.,
ant (41                  lurIe..           lucre..,          Projeet             lucrIe- nres*ee                     Pro.J. Ietreot                          Icse.            Prjec'
Withount        WthI          wVo Prolect        With Prolect        BeorfIt,          11o Project       wihr-t   ,jIj       be efits           II)o Trol.rt      WM!LPrh   Jeofice8
PTrotCt Year             ProleNc       Z±oIeL
10         3-3                                    351              -                      306               306             *                    282               282
2                       20           -02                                   702              -                     611               I11                                  567               561.
3                       30          -                   063              1,003917                                                   917 .I                               845               8'45
4                       40             8               1,406             2,084              6B0                 1,22             1,885             b6k                1,121              1,771              644
11                     SO            21                1,755             1,885           2, I 0                1,52S             3,534           2.056                1 ,409            3,402             1,993
8                       sO           43               2,106              6,169           *,063                  1,834            0,749            3,815                1.691             5,483             3,792
7                       70           58               2,457              8,321          5S8t.4                  2,140             ',755           5,615                  ,w1)            7 ,396            S.421
8                       80            68               2,808             9,755            6,947                 2,446             9,092           6,646                2,254             8,67t             6,417
9                       90            75               3,159            10,760            7,601                 2,751            10.028           7,271                 2,536             9,563            1.027
10                      100            O               93,510            11,477            7.967                 3,057            10,696           7,619                2.811             10.201            t.381
11                                    *5                3.510            12,194            3,684                 3,057            11,364          81307                 2,81t             10.830            8.020
12                       -            90                3,510           12.91.1            9,40S                 31,07            12,033           8,976                 2.818            11,476            8,658
13                       -            95                3 .51           :3 I79           '!-,! 9                 3.)57             2.702          9),45                 2.81s             192,1t            *.295
14                                    98                3,5!0            14,059           10,549                37057             13,103          10.846                 2,.81            12,496            9,676
Is -                     -           100                3,510            I.,141           10.I 36                3,057            13.370          12.311                 2.sis            12,751            S9.3.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WADI MAWR
Prolect Production Growth Rate and Benef1'. Streams
Project
Production                Net Production Value                         Net Production Value                         Net Production Value
Growth             ---------- Without Labor ----------         -------- With Hired Labor -------            -------  With All Labor ----------
Project        Rate L              Present     Future      Incremental         Present      Future      Incremental         Present      Future      Incremental
Year
--- -                  - -1000  vRIs ------------------------------__-________,_______-____
1                 -                  61          61            -                 61          61                               30           30
2                 *                  61          61            -                 61          61                               30           30            -
3                                    61           61            -                 61         61             -                  30          30             -
4                 6                  61          289          22b                 61        260             199                30         242            212
5                19                  &1          917          856                 61        824            763                 30         766           736
6                40                  61        1,930        1,869                 61      1,735          1.674                 30       1,613         1,583
7                62                  61       2,991         2,930                61       2,690          2,629                 30       2,500         2,470
8                76                  61        3,666        3,605                 61      3,297          3,236                 30       3,065r        3,035
"N               86                  61        4,149         4,088                61       3,731          3,670                30        3,468         3,438
lOo               96                  61       4,631         4,570                 61      4,164          4,103                 30       3,872         3,842
11               100                  61       4,824         4,763                 61      4,338          4.277                 30       4,033         4,003
12 - 30          100                  61       4,824         4,763                 61      4,338          4,277                 30       4,033         4.003
L   30 wells start   producing in project year 4 and 20 wells in year 5.
Rate of production growth for each tubevell assumed as 10%, 25%, 50%, 70%, 80%, 90% and 100%.
Above are composite rates for project area served by 50 tubewellb.
aIt
_' -
o w



I___8   10124
.,,, '-_   *, *..f  ';,,  -8                                                YEMEN   ARAB  REPUBLIC
|*@*i c      *      | ~S A t!-' A R A; BA
i,§ ..   4      : .:;.-XI ~6TIHAMA    DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
C  -51!  ,                                                    SITE  LCCAT ION
-    I                                           An~~~~~~~~~~~. AJ*6 It-  A0A,61
________           ______                                Q                               4Aw.t i/\--   46.~ r ;.644,r   6$ )@
(  '   ; *i'..I. 'i  6644 -. 'AL'
4 60. g6   F1
J                                             ..'  .     .    ac    \y
'6'                                                  1'.                                       -   ' 0)        42        6
T H I                _0nP.ri A  '-
6    -  6~ ~ ~~      If               0f           E
_~~~~~ T AT I'/'Z;'
!  '4..h6..$          .           .~* ' 4
j                   A. #0j0. '   \  .,~~~*6ir    )
;/~~ )/
4.                                     GUI f       0rA D
//~~~~~~
(r,,
FT H IO~~~~~_ 



-A-
aASNA    r  IiQ\,          A 11M        0           1           2           3
- >   @;                    KITOMEER1                                    ~Qifoi    FI-KIOER
of                                                                   b UT    ¢ C'
* :, lAgOS    ABASIA
-S. c*~*** °°                L.       -.                                       .4
I                                                --  7,                                       1T 
: M :.os. lll.b                                                                            1
I                                                                                                               MAEAA r
1                                    C          j                 $,.          '                  -                            F
X      oI Shbda             6
I~~~~0*    b, -N  ....C



I BRD 10125
T                                                                                                                         Do        ECEhlPER 1972
/   S                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~YEMEN    ARAB    REPUEtlC
/ t-p- ' D / ~TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
;f J.----r_,  ,o se,WADI ZABID C:'OMMAND AREA
-    9.,>  qs } t,-s-  J\ -~?F                                                                                   Existing C^onel
i}   tJ   '   -    ( i   §,          f 1          <   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *+~ooosod Cronl geo"
---    ?  ::u   i  .    X '  ,9  as4//                  <           \          -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wadi& *rd P opolod WSi s
tA   - .  )   \   17       t>_>-fol Mffiev1<z1  ['     '            *    *;       . ~~~~~~~~~Pgff md Fs- Roads 4ssnole track)
tm   t  t #  '    9        /-    }z; (--     j      fZ                   1           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wells usad f omm*Xno .-soat,or
i'l t5t-Zo toh Jeo < A ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cnt, Lt ...9 1  ewi -cno   mfo er.Iols
; ,,> <_ > \ s 1 7 , ia ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To                                                  C       hsnA- ond Rod.. Wwho,i
5@'t6' s-"°   _   <e>) _ X 01-                                           ,D,                                               2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  o
\ } tstlX l te,t                                               FAO Can*o8o  pIZfi    'i  
\t    y                {          - -          ,,\5,,  ~- )t b-    )        /               /       /                 /L
w<, r V - ^ at t 5 sf I Reddcd/ g l ;~~~Ab
< A _ / /       e       T          y         X       I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alRdc  y     /        .        ,
n   ,\{Cis,2d,.'     iE       \            S   l 4X°Xh          k        i r                       i,a 
f)         t         i\                 g                                  ]                  
ig*\R?R f4sSt t#s i



YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC                               A
g   TIHAMA  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                      ASUDI ,Al          |
WADI  MAWR  FEASIBILITY  STUDY  AREA
SUDAN
PROBABLE AREA FOR IRRIGATION                           A       AVIN
L.  7]  PROBABLE AREA FOR SURFACE IRRIGATION          /    9?A /  oG °t,
C  /  t  J PROBABLE AREA FOR  GW  DEVELOPMENT        pI ShelA .( 
*WM    DRILL HOLES (1972)                         )             *     A
PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD
EXISTING TRACKS
Wad-/   -- Vvee,  Abbot   WADIS
_  _                                h;.wt</ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ly~4 l flS,,ni dn  ,,t  uir  it.,  . tn, ii    /
s   / > f   /   ~~~~  7  ;~~~ ~~=   ¢=  >~~~-xA AZ0HRAH/ 
( 4'                                                                                                       -    .-"u's I-.   
P;-LUHAiYAt)            /  ,_>      "   o gja                                ,     \         ./a,== A\
j(1  9  C*rwlt-V ' * ~~~~~~~~~~<> -__ 0 \ / X                                    &j/at
0o1\MI,uo    \                             sit Alkb6r  …       WM I
\~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~o _               M 0   ,Iha                                                             ro He,,# 
N.__, '\/
\ ~__\_' / .....C-
1_            1    '                         I                  1,   V                      ,,(                     hg0~~~~~~~I  7
0        3                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
M t LES E                                                                -
to.'



