CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 376 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tihama Development Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 7, 1973
'lw


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 376 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tihama Development Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 7, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 7, 1973, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section i.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Authority" means the Tihama Development Authority established by
Law No. 2 of the Year 1973, of the Borrower;
(b)   "Project Areas" means the areas commanded by Wadi Zabid and Wadi
Mawr including their catchments and adjacent areas subject to groundwater recharge
from the flows of Wadi Zabid and Wadi Mawr, and the land required for the
construction of an access road from Sirdud to Azzahra; and
(c)   "ACF" means the Agriculture Credit Fund Department to be
established within the Central Bank of the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02(a)
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an


﻿4
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand
dollars ($10,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972 and revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1983 and ending February 15, 2023, each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1993 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A through D of the
Project through the Authoity with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, engineering, economic, financial and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Borrower shall
make available to the Authority out of the proceeds of the Credit, for the purpose
of carrying out Parts A through D of the Project, the amounts allocated under
Categories I to III of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish within its Central Bank, not
later than January 3 1, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, an agricultural credit fund department (ACF) with brancn offices in
the Project Areas, and shall cause said department to be adequately staffed at
all times.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out Part E of the Project through ACF with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial,
administrative and agricultural credit practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(c)   The Borrower shall lend to its Central Bank, promptly upon the
establishment of ACF, for the purpose of carrying out Part E of the Project, an
amount equivalent to six hundred and sixty-five thousand dollars ($665,000) out
of the Borrower's funds, and the amount allocated under Category IV of Schedule
I to this Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Central Bank upon terms and conditions (including those
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement) which shall have been approved by
the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall, not later than three years after the establishment
of ACF or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, make appropriate
provision, in consultation with the Association, to the effect either that the
resources provided by the Borrower to its Central Bank would be retained as a
long-term loan or that such resources would be held as share capital towards the
establishment of a national agricultural credit institution.


﻿6
(e)   The Borrower shall cause its Central Bank not to grant (A) any loan
in an amount exceeding the equivalent of S30,000 or (B) any loan for processing
of farm products and storage facilities, without obtaining the Association's prior
approval.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of plans,
designs, specifications and contract documents for the works included in Parts A
and B(ii) and for Part B(iii) of the Project, in the supervision of the construction
of such works, in the training of the Borrower's engineers and technicians, and
in the carrying out of the study under Part B(i) of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ, or cause to be employed, engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. In order to assist ACF in carrying out Part E of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, credit consultants acceptable
to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
together with appropriate counterparts with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed agricultural research
and extension consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. In carrying out Parts A and B(ii) of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ or cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,


﻿7
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction of the facilities included
in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association for
its review a plan for the installation of tubewells in Wadi Zabid prior to the
installation or the granting of any credit for the installation of, such tubewells.
Section 3.11. In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall, in
consultation with the Association, prepare a program for the training of personnel
in the fields of irrigation engineering, agricultural research, extension and credit,
or such other related fields as shall be determined by the Borrower and the
Association, and shall select appropriately qualified candidates acceptable to the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority and ACF to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Authority
and ACF.


﻿8
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall
(i) cause the Authority to maintain separate records and accounts for the Project;
and (ii) cause ACF to maintain (A) a separate account for medium and long-term
loans provided under Part E of the Project and (B) a separate account for short-term
agricultural production loans provided 'under Part E of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the Authority and ACF to: (i) have their
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association- (ii) furnish to the AsSociation as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope a,id in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Authority and
ACF and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Authority to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Authority to manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion, operate and maintain its
works, equipment and facilities, all in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management, assisted by qualified staff in adequate
proportion to its operations.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause the Authority not to undertake any other development projects prior
to the completion of the construction of the works and facilities included in the
Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the Authority to prepare and submit
to the Association for its approval, not later than nine months after the Effective
Date or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, plans for the
operation of the agricultural research and extension service, and for the training
of farmers in the Project Areas.


﻿9
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the Authority and the Central Bank
of the Borrower through ACF, jointly to prepare and submit to the Association
for its approval, not later than eighteen months after the Effective Date or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Association, a plan (i) prescribing the
procedures for the sale of tubewells by the Authority and the Central Bank of
the Borrower to the farmers, and (ii) providing for the recovery from farmers of
on-farm development costs.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall ensure that, after the completion of the
Project, the Authority shall have adequate funds for the purposes of operating
and maintaining the irrigation system in Wadi Zabid and for the proper provision
of extension services.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the consultants
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, draw up and submit to the
Association for its review, a new plan for water distribution in Wadi Zabid and
shall prescribe the rules and regulations necessary for the implementation thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary for the effective
implementation of the new     plan for canal water distribution referred to in
Sub-section (a) above.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall appoint a qualified and experienced
Chairman for the Board of the Authority upon terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Authority to employ, not later than six
months after the date of this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association, and upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association, a qualified and experienced management and
technical advisor and a financial advisor.
(c)   Appointments of the Chairman of the Board of the Authority, the
management and technical advisor and the financial advisor referred to in
Sub-sections (a) and (b) above respectively shall always be made after consultation
with the Association.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall cause the Authority to make suitable
provision, acceptable to the Association, for the recovery, from beneficiaries in
Wadi Zabid, of all operating and maintenance cost and of all the moneys invested
therein without interest.


﻿10
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall prepare and carry out a plan, acceptable
to the Association, for monitoring and evaluating water use, land tenure, and all
other aspects of agricultural production in the Project Areas.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Authority and ACF and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Authority and ACF and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿AM11
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit
shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Law No. 2 of the Year 1973 of the Borrower establishing the
Authority shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in
such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Authority to
carry out the Project;
(b)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the loan
provided by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development under the agreement
referred to in Section 8.01(a) of this Agreement shall have been suspended in whole
or in part; and


﻿12
(c)   the outstanding principal of the loan provided by the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development under the agreement referred to in Section 8.0 1(a)
of this Agreement shall have been declared, or shall have become, due in advance
of the agreed maturity thereof.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
The events specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 7.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower shall have entered into an agreement with the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development, for the financing of the local costs of
the Project; and
(b)   the Chairman of the Board of the Authority shall have been appointed
in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of this Agreement.
Section 8.03. The date August 6, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.03, 4.07, 4.10 and 4.11 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement and those of Section 7.03 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of State for Development of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.


﻿13
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Commission
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
CENPLAN
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Yahya Geghman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.   Civil Works
(a)   foreign                   3,270,000          100% of foreign
contractors                                  expenditures
(b)   local con-                 650,000           42% of total
tractors and                                 expenditures
force account                                (representing
the estimated
foreign expend-
iture component)
11.   Equipment and                   1,000,000
Materials
(a)  imported                                      100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  locally                                       80% of total
procured                                     expenditures
(representing
the estimated
foreign
expenditure
component)
111.  Consultant                     2,580,000           100% of foreign
Services and                                       expenditures
Training of
Personnel


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
IV.   Agricultural Credit            2,000,000           75% of total
expenditures
(representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
V.    Unallocated                     1,400,000
TOTAL         10,900,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category 11 on account of expenditures
incurred after March 1, 1973, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $15,000, and in respect of Category III on account of expenditures incurred
after March 1, 1973, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$135,000;
(b)   expenditures under Category IV until the subsidiary loan agreement
referred to in Section 3.02(c) of this Agreement shall have been executed pursuant
to the provisions thereof; and


﻿16
(c)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, ccancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I(b),
or 11(b), or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association may by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:     Wadi Zabid
(i)         the construction of 10 diversion weirs with gate-controlled
intakes, sluiceways and associated river training works;
(ii)        the improvement of over 120 km        of existing canals and
construction of about 50 km of secondary canals;
(iii)       the reconstruction of about 25 existing canal structures and the
construction of about 450 drop and regulating structures and
field outlets;
(iv)        the installation of a radio communication network between
weather stations;
(v)         the construction of service and farm roads and small buildings;
and
(vi)        the provision of vehicles and equipment.
Part B:     Wadi Mawr
(i)         the preparation  'f a feasibility study for the development of
surface and groundwater for irrigating an area of about
60,000 ha including conversion of about 50 test wells to
tubewells;
(ii)        the construction of a gravelled access road and the provision
of office and housing facilities; and
(iii)       the provision of vehicles and equipment.


﻿18
Part C.
The provision of specialist consultaits to assist in the organization and
management of the Authority, to assist the Authority in the provision of
agricultural research and extension services and to assist ACF in carrying
out Part E hereof.
Part D:
The provision of overseas and in-service training for the staff of the Authority
and ACF.
Part E:
The provision of funds to help finance medium- and long-term loans to
farmers and other entities in the Project Areas for groundwater development,
farm machinery and equipment, on-farm development, processing and storage
facilities, agricultural services and of short-term loans for working capital
for additional inputs.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Contracts Subject to International Competitive Bidding
Subject to the provisions set forth in Paragraph II of this Schedule, civil
works, equipment and materials shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
The irrigation works and radio communication network in Wadi Zabid
included under Parts A(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Schedule 2 of this Agreement shall
be procured under one contract. Bidders shall not be required to prequalify.
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
-       documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrenc'
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with tlhe recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly infonn the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association


﻿20
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Materials
With respect to any contract for equipment and materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $10,000 or more:
(a)   Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for
its approval, the list of equipment and materials required for the Project showing
the capacities and the estimated unit and total price.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


﻿21
II.   Contracts not Subject to International Competitive Bidding
A.    Civil Works
1.    The drilling work in Wadi Mawr required for the carrying out of Part
B(i) of the Project shall be performed by the authroity's forces.
2.    Contracts for the construction of service and farm roads and small
buildings under Part A(v) of the Project and contracts for the construction of
the gravelled access road and the provision of office and housing facilities under
Part B(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall be awarded on a competitive
basis in accordance with the normal procurement procedures of the Borrower. The
Borrower shall prequalify bidders for these contracts.
(a)   For contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(i)         The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make
such additions to or deletions from the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(ii)        The Borrower shall follow the procedure set forth in Paragraphs
I A(a), (b), (c) and (d) above.
(b)   With respect to any other contract for civil works, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Associatirn shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿22
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Materials
With respect to any contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
less than $10,000 equivalent, the Borrower may procure such goods under such
contracts in accordance with the normal procurement procedure of the Borrower
or by direct purchase from local or foreign suppliers, provided that the aggregate
cost of the goods to be so procured shall not exceed $100,000 equivalent. The
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after the execution of any
of these contracts, and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-Lending
Under Part E of the Project
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which the
amounts referred to in Section 3.02(c) of this Agreement shall be lent by the
Borrower to its Central Bank, and by the Central Bank to sub-borrowers for the
purposes of carrying out Part E of the Project.
1.   Lending Terms - the Borrower to its Central Bank:
(a)   Term:      15 years with a five-year grace period.
(b)   Interest:  4% per annum on outstanding balance.
2.    Lending Terms - the Central Bank to sub-borrowers:
(a)   Terms:
(i)        short-term loans for working capital for additional inputs shall
be repaid within twelve months after the granting thereof; and
(ii)       repayment periods of medium and long-term loans shall be as
follows:
Investment                  Grace          Repayment
Categories                 Period            Period            Total
---- ---y ears-----------
I.   Groundwater Develop-           2                 8               10
ment
2.    Farm Machinery                2                 5                7
3.    On-Farm Development           2                 8               10
4.    Processing and                2                 8               10
Storage Facilities
and Other Agricul-
tural Services


﻿24
(b)   Interest:
shall be at rates which would be reasonably in line with prevailing
rates for short, medium and long-term loans, respectively, for similar
purposes made by commercial banks.
(c)   Eligible Borrowers:
loans may be made to individual cultivators, groups of farmers, persons
or entities for the purposes specified under Part E of the Project, each
of whose business is conducted within the Project Areas or related
to the agricultural produce therefrom.


