Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10540-MAG Type: (PCR)
N.AMISATO, / X31678 / T9105/ OEDD2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1834-MAG AND A-32-MAG)
APRIL 15, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only (a the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Malagasy franc
1987    US$1 =  FMG 1,069.2           1990    US$1 =  FMG 1,494.1
1988    US$1 =  FMG 1,407.1           1991    US$1 =  FMG 1,835.4
1989    US$1 =  FMG 1,603.4
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASAC  =    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BFV    =    National Bank for Trade
BMOI  =    Malagasy Bank of the Indian Ocean
BNI    =    National Bank for Industry
BTM    =    National Bank for Agriculture
IDA    =    International Development Association
ISAC   =    Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
ITPAC  =    Industry and Trade Adjustment Credit
LIR    =    Liberalized Import Regime
OECP  =    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
OGL   =    Open General License
PCR    =    Project Completion Report
PIP     =    Public Investment Program
PSAC   =    Public Sector Adjustment Credit
SFA    =    Special Facility for Africa



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORlD HANK
Washington. D C 20433
US A
OffKC of Dafectot-GenwaI
Opetatnsn EValute4bn
April 15. 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Madagascar - Industry and Trade
Policy Adjustment Credit (Credits 1834-MAG and A-32-MAG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Madagascar - Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
(Credits 1834-MAG and A-32-MAG)," prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division. Country Department III of the Africa Region. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
~14 2
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLE-TION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1834-MAG and A-32-MAG)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ...................................................
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .........                        ...........................i
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   1...... 
A. Introduction         ......................1..................... 
Adjustment Context   .................................                              1
Country Background and Performance  ....................                           3
B. Credit Genesis   .............               ............................                 4
C. Credit Objectives and Description  ...........................                            5
D. Credit Component Performance ..................                                           6
E. Project Formulation and Organization  ........................                            8
F. Project Implementation  ...................................                               9
G. Impact of Adjustment  ....................................                               10
Aggregate Supply Response   ...........................                           10
Supply Response in the Industrial Subsectors   .....               .........      11
The Results in Public Enterprise Reform    .....               ............       13
H. Conclusions ............................................                                 13
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                              16
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION                       ......................                  17
Credit Data .       ..............................................                          17
Mission Data ...............................................   18
Tables
1. Selected Economic Indicators, 1965-90   .......................                          19
2. Summary Balance of Payments, 1980 and 1985-90    .....                    .........      20
3. Exports and Imports by Major Category, 1987-90   .....                  ..........       21
4. Merchandise Imports, 1980-90   .............................                             22
5. Merchandise Exports, 1980-90   .............................                             23
6. Nominal Protection Rates (%), 1988-89   ......................                           24
7. Consumer Price Developments, 1980, 1985-90   .....                    ............       25
8. Government Revenue and Expenditure, 1980, 1985-90   ....                    .......      26
9. Comparison of Projected versus Actual Economic Indicators, 1988-90                       27
Figures
1. Real and Nominal Exchange Rates, 1982-89  ...................                            28
2. Saving and Investment, 1960-89   ............................                            29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloseti without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1834-MAG and A-32-MAG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completien Report (PCR) for the Industry and Trade
Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC) to Madagascar. The Credit was approved by the Board
on June 30, 1987 and comprised of: IDA Credit 1834-MAG for SDR 12.5 million, Special
Facility for Africa (SFA) Credit A-32 MAG for SDR 52.2 million, a Government of Saudi
Arabia Credit for Saudi Rials 12 million. a Government of Japan Credit for Yen 1 billion and
a Government of Japan Grant for Yen 1 billion. ITPAC was closed on March 31, 1991 and
fully disbursed on February 6, 1991.
This PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division,
Country Department III of the Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summaqy, Parts I and HI).
In September 1991, the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare
Part II by November 1991, but no reply was received.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter ala on the project brief, tne Initiating
Memorandum, the President's report, the Credit Agreements, supervision reports, a special
report titled Mada,ascar - Adiustment in the Industrial Sector and Agenda Lbr Further
Reforms (No 7784-MAG) and correspondence between the Bank, cofinanciers and the
Borrower.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1834-MAG and A-32-MAG&
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.           Four adjustment Credits have been extended to Madagascar since 1985.
Initially, the Government and the Bank adopted a cautious strategy and agreed to begin
addressing the many structural distortions affecting the economy sector by sector. This
approach was supported by two IDA sectoral Credits, beginning with the Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit (ISAC) in 1985 and followed by the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
(ASAC) in 1986. Building on these two operations, the adjustment process gained
momentum. As it became increasingly evident that sectoral policy improvements by
themselves were unlikely to lead to a significant and rapid supply response, the Government
moved decisively to a broader agenda of far-reaching refc'rms supported successively by the
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC% .ni 1987 and the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit (PSAC) in 1988.
ii.          The ITPAC thus marked the second phase of an adjustment policy, initiated
by the Government of Madagascar with support from IDA and the IMF, to reorient the
Malagasy economy towards a free market system. It comprised of IDA Credit 1834-MAG for
SDR 12.5 million and SFA Credit A-32 MAG for SDR 52.2 million along with a Japanese
Grant for Yen I biiiion, an OECF Credit for Yen 1 billion and a Saudi Arabian Credit for
Saudi Rials 12 million. Approximately ninety-nine percent of the proceeds were quick-
disbursing, providing an immediate source of foreign exchange to expand Madagascar's import
potential. The remaining one percent funded consultant services for an action program to
rehabilitate public sector enterprises, portfolio audits of the three state controlled commercial
banks, and, subsequently, for follow-up recommendations for commercial bank rehabilitation
and Central Bank supervision. Board approval was granted on June 30, 1987 and the Credit
became effective on September, 21 1987 with the Japanese components becoming effective
on April 19, 1988. The closinig date, originally set for December 31, 1989, was extended
twice, ultimately occurring on March 31, 1991.
Objectives
iii.         The objective of ITPAC's package of policy reforms was to deepen the policy
turnaround process initiated under ISAC, thereby assisting recovery and growth. These
reforms were designed to increase competition through liberalization of the international and
domestic trade, thus fostering a market-based resource allocation system in Madagascar. To
consolidate the gains made under ISAC, and aided by the growing consensus in favor of
opening up the economy, significant additional reforms were introduced. The cornerstone of
the reform program was a substantial modification of the exchange rate system in support of
extensive trade liberalization. Complementary reforms were also pursued to liberalize
domestic markets and reduce the role of Government. Components of the ITPAC policy



- iv -
reform package fell into fve categcries: (a) liberalization of the trade and exchange rate
regimes; (b) import tariff reform; (c) price decontrol; (d) public investment program
rationalization; (e) restructuring and privatization of public enterprises; and (f) reforms in the
bankdng system.
Implementation Exnerience
iv.          InPAC was disbursed in three tranches.  The first two phases of the
adjustment program were implemented as planned, although a three-month delay in releasing
the second tranche was necessary to allow for a waiver on specific project conditions.
Conditions for third tranche release were met thirty months after the originally s Neduled
date. The delays were caused by difficulties in the privatization and/or liquidation oI the ten
targeted public enterprises. These comprised ten ill-conceived industrial firms chosen because
of the burden they imposed on the budget and on the financial system, that clearly presented
little immediate interest to the private sector. The program design lesson from this
experience is that when multiple objectives are to be achieved, the pace is dictated by the
slower actions to be implemenited. Public enterprise reform, although an important objective,
had an impact on trade reform which was advancing on a faster track. Lapses in
macroeconomic management and lower than expected export expansion, together with the
delay in tranche release, contributed to the reemergence of foreign exchange constraints and
threatened the sustainability of the program.
V.            Beyond the Government's hesitancy in defining the role of public enterprises
in the economy and in taking decisive action thereof, several unforeseen factors caused the
implementation of the program to suffer. Private sector capital available for the purchase of
public enterprises was scarce and Government's receptivity to foreign investment for this
purpose was less than complete. Rising energy import costs became a substantially greater
burden on the economy. Due to changing economic conditions, many provisions of the
investment code, which was in cffect at the inception of the adjustment effort, were not
particularly effective and a broader version was only announced in December 1989, relatively
late in the implementation of this particular program.
Project Impact
vi.           The core objective of ITPAC - to implement trade policy reforms increasing
competition and efficiency of the industrial sector and enhancing its contribution to the
economy - was substantially realized. Industrial capacity increased in many of the more
competitive sectors, with the largest gains achieved in the garment industry. Product line
rationalization was a result of lower protection from imported goods and increased
competition from abroad. This required a significant adjustment in production patterns and
the response from parts of the sector was quite positive. Pricing policies increasingly
incorporated market signals. The reorientation of the industrial sector came not only from
rationalizing production of existing plant but also from new investment responding to
incentives favoring exports. A feasibility study on free trade zone policy environmen., and
development was completed with promising prospects for Madagascar. The comparative labor
advantages offered by Madagascar, coupled with a liberalized access to foreign exchange and
a more positive Government attitude towards foreign investment, have already induced
foreigners to consider and undertake foreign direct investments.



vii.          As expected, the impact of reforms on specific industrial subsectors varied in
line with the subsectors' cnmparative advantage, relative labor and capital intensity and import
requirements.  Textile production ha.  enefitted from pressure by exporting garment
manufacturers foc quality and consistency improvements. New entries in the sector are
gearing then.Aclves to sell directly into export markets. Existing specialized garment
manufacturers are also becoming increasingly export oriented. The structure of the footwear
subsector hes changed from a quasi-monopoly, prior to the adjustment process, to a multi-
enterprise activity in which many small individual enterprises are subcontractors to the major
producer. The seafood processing subsector has felt the greatest impact and the shrimp
industry has grown to represent seven percent of the total exports of Madagascar. Vertical
integration of shrimp fishing and farming has led to aquaculture pilot projects, which could
further enhance export prospects.
Sustainability and Conclusions
viii.         Project-supported reforms, togetherwith parallel Bank adjustment operations,
had a major impact on reversing the economic decline and laying the foundation for the
recovery of the Malagasy economy. Specific gains were made in GDP growth levels: starting
in 1988 GDP per capita has grown in real terms for three consecutive years for the first time
in almost two decades. Despite the encouraging progress noted in the previous section, the
sustainability of the recent recovery will depend on the expansion of private sector investment
and exports. The objective is to reduce the excessive dependence on external aid flows, which
threatens the viability of Madagascar's external position and, in turn, could lead to
comopacency in t.e reform process. ITPAC, and other adjustment programs, represent
si nificant steps in this direction but a sustaineA diversification and expansion of Madagascar's
export require additional efforts to improve the environment for private investment. The
Government's reform agenda and Bank lending strategy are focussing on this objective.
ix.           ITPAC was successful in carrying forward the reform effort in Madagascar
and setting the stage for renewed interest in Madagascar by domestic and foreign private
investors. This achievement was helped by the following features of the operation:
(a)  the implementation of trade reforms was conditioned on a credible fiscal
program that achieved and maintained internal balance;
(b)  currency devaluation made the elimination of quantitative restrictions consistent
with tne balance of payments objectives;
(c)  the tariff reduction stage was phased to come after stabilization and was
coordinated with the stabilization program;
(d)  accompanying domestic regulatory/institutional reform, which focussed on
reducing Government discretion and facilitating business entry and exit,
increased the effectiveness of the reforms;
(e)  implementation and monitoring of the trade reform was facilitated by the
specificity of conditionality in terms of removal of quantitative restrictions and
of reduction of both maximum and average nominal tariffs and the dispersion
around the average;



- vi -
x.    Neverthelcss, recent developments (such as continuing concern with the weak
performance of domestic taxes and heavy reliance on foreign aid, lack of currency
convertibility for non-trade current account transactions and lack of momentum for further
reform in the trade of services), suggest that the adjustment could have been more effective
if:
(a) trade reform had been directly linked to domestic tax reform, in particular excise
and value added taxation. Poor revenue performance is generating pressures to
raise revenue from trade taxes;
(b) consideration had been given to whether the large amount of financing was
sustaining the real exchange rate at an artificially high level (thereby perhaps
hindering a better export performance), especially given that free access to
foreign exchange was essentially limited to trade in goods;
(c) a timetable had been agreed at an early stage for achieving full convertibility of
the Malagasy franc for all current account tr3iisactions--this would have given
more incentives for private investment and facilitated the privatization process
that hindered disbursements under the Credit;
(d) the eventual end-point of trade reform had been discussed explicitly: is the
current 35 percent average tariff with 15 percent dispersion adequate when
industrialized countries have tariffs of about 5 percent and high performing
developing countries now have average tariffs of about 10 percent; and
(e) during implementation more emphasis had been placed on the need for rapid
reform in regulations controlling private investment and incentives to private
investors, including foreigners, so as to get the full supply response and
efficiency gains generated by the trade reforms.
Xi.    These design improvements, with the lenefit of hindsight, would probably have
increased MAC's effectiveness. More generally, it is Possible to argue that the authorities
could have managed the program better by implementing reforms in a more determined and
less gradual manner. Their hesitancy, particularly with respect tu defining the role the the
State and of PEs in the economy, sent mixed signals to the private sector and caused it to
adopt a wait and see attitude. With hindsight, it is clear that actual results, in the form of
supply response, could have been much more impressive if the reform program had been
carried out with greater vigor. As noted in this report, however, the Madagascar reform
program is generally considered as a relatively successful adjustment experience in Sub-
Saharan Africa and ITPAC had an important contribution to this achievement.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(REDITS 1834-MAG and A-32-MAGj
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
Adjustment Context
1.    The Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC), was the third in a series
of adjustment operations attempting to increase efficiency in resource allocation through
liberalization of product and factor markets. These operations laid the foundation for the
recovery of the Malagasy economy, which had been deteriorating rapidly since the early
19P.'s. The ITPAC Credits provided balance of payments support of approximnately US$100
million, in three equal tranches, disbursed in accordance with a pre-established schedule of
economic reforms undertaken by the Government of Madagascar in the context of an ongoing
dialogue with IDA and the IMF.
2.    Four IDA adjustment Credits have been extended to Madagascar since 1985. Initially,
the Government was not ready to implement a broad based structural adjustment effort.
Instead, it adopted a cautious sector-by-sector strategy to address the many structural
distortions in the economy. This approach was supported by two IDA sector Credits,
beginnine with the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC) in 1985 and followed by the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC) in 1986. Building on these two operations,
the adjustment process gained momentum and, the Government, recognizing that sectoral
policy improvements by themselves were unlikely to lead to significant and rapid slipply
response, moved decisively to a broader agenda of far-reaching reforms supported successively
by the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC) in 1987 and the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit (PSAC) in 1988.
3.    The ISAC (US$60 million) became effective in July 1985. This operation was
ct nceived as a first step U1 reducing distortions in the industrial sector and the economy as
a whole. Specifically. ASAC focused on (a) freeing most ex-factory industrial prices; (b)
eliminating export taxes on manufactured prod ucts; (c) removing some merchandise import
prohibitions, thereby initiating import liberqlization; (d) improving the quality of the industrial
public investment program; and (e) promu.,ating a more private sector-oriented investment
code. A PCR' for this project has already been prepared, and it concludes that this
operation, although perhaps modest in its specific conditionality, played a key role in setting
the political economy stage for a comprehensive reform program.
4.    The ASAC (US$100 million, including cofinancing) became effective in September
1986. Its objective was to increase the market orientation of the agricultural sector.
' PPAR on Industrial Assistance Project (Credits 1541-MAG and A-7-MAG), Report No.
10405, February 27, 1992.



-2 -
Specifically, it focused on: (a) progressively reducing e need for Government rice imports
by eliminating direct Government intervention in the rice market; (b) reforming the pricing
system for major export crops and rice; (c) gradually reducing subsidies paid to agricultural
trading companies and eliminating subsidie's on agricultural inputs; (d) transferring the
responsibility for input supply to private comniercial interests; and (e) improving the quality
of public investment in the agricultural sector. The implementation of ASAC has generally
been satisfactory, and early results, particularly in the rice sector, have been encouraging.
The second tranche was released in April 1989. The credit was closed in June 1990.
5.    The ITPAC (US$100 million, including cofinancing) became effective in September
1987. Its objective was to increase the openness and efficiencv of the economy. The policy
package supported by this ope-ation focused on: (a) .   lizaEion of the foreign trade and
foreign exchange allocation regimes; (b) tariff reform; kc) fw-r'.er price decontrol; (d)
restructuring of public enterorises; (e) initiating reforms of tile banking system; and (f)
improvine, the quality of the national public investment program (PIP). Analysis of
experience with the implementation of this Credit and of its impact on the economy is the
subject of this report.
6.     The PSAC (US$180 million, including cofinancing) became effective in December
1988. This operation was geared to support additional actions aimed at reducing the heavy
direct involvement of the state in the economy and improving public sector management. It
focused on: (a) eliminating administrative export restrictions and the state stabilization funds'
monopoly on pepper, cloves and coffee; (b) restructuring the banking sector; (c) restructuring
and privatization of public enterprises; (d) introducing a new public sector budgeting system;
(e) extending the annual public investment program into a rolling three-year PIP process and
preparation of annual public expenditure programs; and (f) initiating a comprehensive civil
service reform. After substantial upfront actions, implementation slowed in the public
enterprise and budgetary reform areas, but since late 1990, the pace has quickened, allowing
the second tranche release to occur in March 1991.
7.    In addition to these adjustment Credits, financial sector and business environment
reforms designed to stimulate bank competition, facilitate the conduct of monetary policy, and
encourage private sector investment were puki.led under the APEX I Credit which was
approved in March 1990. This project provides a line of credit through the banking system
to support private sector investments necessary for the supply response envisaged under the
policy framework fostered by the adjistment Credits.
8.     Overall, ,c pite slower than expected progress in policy areas dependent on
Madagascar's limited administrative capacity (i.e., budgetary and public enterprise reforms),
the cumulative implementation of the package of sectoral and macroeconomic reforms
enacted since 1985 has been satisfactory and has contributed to the r-sumption of growth.
In response to the liberalization measures in agriculture for example, both the 1986 and 1987
crop seasons yielded substantial production increases in the rice secto? As a result, despite
bad weather in 1988 and 1990, Madagascar has now significantly reduced its dependency on
imported foodstuffs. For the economy as a whole, it was not realistic to expect a supply
response much before 1989 because most of the crucial struc.ural adjustment reforms (price
decontrol, exchange regime, external trade, restructuring of the banking sector and improved
allocation of public expenditures) took place on;y beginning in 1987. Nonetheless, initial



3 -
indicatioios of the positive impact on the industrial aector are encouraging, as summari7z in
Section 0 belowY
Country Background and Performance
9.    Madagascar, a large islanu off the southeastern coast of Africa in the Indian Ocean,
has a vast range of natural resources and a wide assortment of ecological and climatic
variations. Madagascar's 570,000 sq km is home to a popAliation of about 11 million with a
density of 20 people per sq km. While most of the island is rural, the widely dispersed urban
centers have a unique multi-cultural and ethnic configuration. The country enjoys a blend
of traditional values rr.ixed with an emerging modern outlook.
10.   With a per capita income of US$230 in 1989, Mauagascar is one of the 15 poorest
countries in the world. The agricultural sector accounts for about 41 percent of GDP, and
employs approximately 90 percent of the work force. Coffee, vanilla and cloves are
traditional exports and account for 28 percent of total exports. The industrial sector
accounted for 13 percent of GDP in 1989. Rice, Madagascar's main staple, is grown in the
central high!and plateau by small and medium-sized producers.
11.   At the time of independence in 1960, Madagascar was a net exporter of rice and had
a thriving private sector which operated in a relatively liberal economic environment.
Depressed rice prices, as a result of Government interventions in the rice market,
substantially reduced production incentives. As a result, the country has become a net
importer of this commodity. More generally, the country's economic record is one of modest
growth to 1970, stagnation from 1970 to 1980, sharp deterioration between 1980 and 1982,
and financial stabilization with limited economic growth from 1983 through 1987. Since 1988,
economic results have been encouraging.
12.   The disappointing growth performance of the 1970s stemmed largely from
inappropriate economic policies. These emphasized a much increased public sector role, with
import substitution in industry as the central objective and agriculture in a support role, and
pervasive controls on private economic activity. Between 1978 and 1980, the Government
embarked on an "all-out" public investment policy which included large and economically non-
viable projects. These policies, combined with declning terms of trade, led to an 11 percent
decline in real GDP from 1980 to 1982 and a large external debt burden, which still severely
constrains economic growth.
13.   During the 1980s, the focus of economic managemen. moved from the urgent need
of financial stabilization with IMF assistance in the first part of the decade to supply-oriented
measures supported by the Bank and the Fund in the second part. Between 1983 and 1987,
the economic decline of the preceding three years was arrested, and the economy grew at a
modest average rate of 1.4 percent per annum. The improved policy environment contributed
to an acceleration of economic growth starting in 1988, when GDP grew faster than
population at 3.4 percent. The economy continued to grow by another 4.1 percent in 1989
'  A detailed analysis of the initial supply response to reforms in the industrial sector is
contained in a gray-cover report "Adjustment in the Industrial Sector and an Agenda for
Further Reforms" dated October 29, 1990. The economy-wide impact of the overall
adjustment effort is assessed in the 1991 Country Economic Memorandum.



-4-
and by 3.5 percent in 1990. Investment has also begun to recover. The composition of public
investment has been slowly shifting towards activities which support rather than replace
pri-ate economic efforts and its quality improved markedly. The recent investment recovery
was largely associated with some initial pick-up of private investment, from a trivial amount
until 1987 to around 5 percent of GDP in 1988 and 1989.
B. Credit Genesis
14.   Sector Dev lopment Objectives. The Government's strategy for the industrial sector
was to continue the adjustment process that was initiated under the first adjustment operation
in Madagascar, the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC). The reforms introduced with
support fromr ITPAC were conceived to increase the productivity and efficiency of the
industrial sector and of the econor. as a whole, and to gradually increase its capacity to
generate foreign exchange and expand output, reversing the contraction of the past decade.
These objectives would be achieved through the liberalization of product and factor markets.
Free movement of relative prices would induce the reallocation of resources to more
productive sectors, the greater use of domestic inputs and the transformation of the more
efficient industrial units towards export-oriented production. The cornerstone of this policy
package was the continuation and full implementation of international trade liberalization
measures, supported by domestic deregulation. The quick-disbursing proceeds of the Credit
were to increase the amount of foreign exchange available to finance imports by all economic
agents under a liberalized import regime, thereby supporting the movement towards a market-
determined exchange rate.
15.   Policy Context. ITPAC was the third in a series of economic adjustment programs
aimed at reversing previous policies. These policies emphasized state control of the economy
and the allocation of resources by the Government rather than in response to market signals.
This gave rise to inward-looking policies protecting domestic enterprises through an
administered foreign exchang-.. allocation system, import licensing requirements, quantitative
restrictions and high import tariffs. Stabilization efforts to correct the resulting internal and
external imbalances were proving unsustainable and increasingly painful without a reversal of
the policies of the previous decade. The Government, reluctant to venture into the unknown,
was initially not inclined to inaugurate across-the-board corrections, although it was, in
principle, committed to the process of reform. The positive results obtained under ISAC
helped convince the Govemment that it was on the right road, opening the door for MAC
and other reform programs.
16.   Credit Design. ITPAC was designed to cover many problem areas with decisive action
where half measures would not do (exchange rate, foreign exchange allocation and price
controls) and with caution where a gradual approach seemed more appropriate (tariff
protection and public enterprise reform). The policy reforms under MAC were to achieve
increased competition in the domestic market. By quickly liberalizing foreign trade and the
allocation of scarce foreign exchange resources, the economy moved a long way towards this
objective. In order not to subject the local industry too abruptly to foreign competition, some
protection was maintained through the system of ad valorem tariffs. Tariff protection was
rationalized but was designed to remain high in the first year of the reform period when
quantitative restrictions were eliminated for almost all products. Nominal protection was
gradually decreased in the course of a four year reform program.



-5 -
17.   Domestic cost-plus pricing controls were removed in parallel with increased
competition from abroad. Price controls were formally maintained for five basic necessities.
These, too, became redundant in practice soon after the implementation of the trade
liberalization, and were removed shortly after the elimination of quantitative restrictions.
In order to reduce pressures for increased trade protection to public enterprises and to
moderate the burden on public finances, ITPAC called for the privatization/liquidation of ten
major industrial public enterprises. Also included in the Credit was agreement on measures
for dealing with several public projects of doubtful economic merit and on the Public
Investment Program (PIP) for 1987, 1988 and 1989. Finally, the ITPAC program also
envisaged increased competition in the financial sector. Policy measures to this end included
reform of the banking law and plans for liberalizing entry in the domestic banking sector for
new institutions drawing their equity base from the private sector, local or foreign.
C Credit Objectives and Description
18.   Credit Objectives. The Credit contained a policy package to remove barriers to
efficient allocation of scarce resources. Its main features were expected to result in economy-
wide benefits. With respect to the industrial sector, the objective against which success would
be judged was to stimulate the revival of its more efficient segments and to provide strong
incentives for the creation of efficient enterprises able to compete effectively in the domestic
and foreign markets.
19.   Credit comoonents. lTPAC included the following components:
(a) Trade and Exchange Regime. To ensure the efficient allocation of foreign
exchange, the Government agreed to establish a non-discriminating foreign
exchange allocation regime and to introduce an Open General License (OGL)
system covering all goods imported to Madagascar. This was supported by a real
exchange rate adjustment which was expected to be followed by an active
exchange policy to reestablish and maintain Madagascar's competitiveness.
(b) Tariff Reform. So as to increase the outward orientation, competitiveness and
efficiency of the industrial sector, the Government agreed to elinminate
quantitative restrictions and to simplify the tariff system, finishing with all
product-specific tariffs and tariff treatment by end use, and reducing tariff
brackets to a maximum of ten. Tariff ceilings were immediately brought down
to 80 percent and floors were set at 5 percent. Under a four-year program,
average nominal protection would be reduced to 35 percent and the dispersion
around the average to 15 percent. The program would also eliminate all
exemptions and required that nominal and effective tariffs (revenues divided by
imports) not deviate by more than 10 percent.
(c) Price Decontrol. To make the Malagasy economy more responsive to increased
competition, and in line with the international trade Lberalization, the gradual
removal of price controls and cost-plus pricing was agreed.
(d) Public Investment Program (PIP). To rationalize the PIP process and to
improve the quality of public p.ojects, an agreement on the 1987 PIP at the



-6 -
national level (not limited to just the industrial sector), was achieved during
project preparation. This was to be followed up with agreements on the 1988
PIP and 1989 PIP.
(e) Public Enterprise Reform. To reduce the Grovernment's role in productive
activities, the Government identified ten public, sector manufacturing enterprises
to be privatized, rehabilitated or liquidated (making a total of 26 since inception
of public enterprise reform under ISAC). The preparation of an action program
for these public enterprises was agreed.
(f)  Financial Sector Reform. A two-stage approach would be adopted. Initially,
portfolio audits of the three state-owned banks would take place. Thereafter,
portfolio restructuring plans would be formulated and implemented. Bank
supervision would also be strengthened while a study would provide the
analytical underpinnings for further financial sector reforms.
D. Credit Component Performance
20.   Trade and Exchange Regime.  The import liberalization phase of the Credit
introduced and developed a market-based system of foreign exchange allocation. In January
1988, a law eliminating quantitative restrictions on imports and import licenses was enacted.
The list of prohibited items was left only with items that could present a risk to national
security and health. A temporary surcharge of 30 percent was applied on previously
prohibited items, while agreement was reached on a schedule to eliminate this surcharge in
three years. In July 1988, foreign exchange policy reforms were widened with the
introduction of a full-fledged Open General License System (OGL). This meant that
unlimited foreign exchange became available at the prevailing exchange rate for import of
goods by any economic agent. The 1987-88 overhaul of the foreign exchange regime was
made possible by a cumulative 53 percent depreciation of the Malagasy franc in trade-
weighted foreign currency terms. As a result of these actions, the overvaluation of the
exchange rate was largely corrected by end-1988 and the OGL system could operate
satisfactorily.
21.   Before the initiation of the adjustment program, Madagascar had in place an extensive
system of export controls, that included prior authorization to export, export price controls,
minigum value requirements and trial periods for exporters. In September 1988, all export
controls, with the exception of those applicable to vanilla and coffee, were eliminated.
Beginning with the 1988/89 crop year, coffee producers were also allowed to negotiate and
execute export contracts freely. With the exception of the foreign exchange repatriation
obligation that still remains in force and the case of vanilla, virtualiy all other export controls
have been eliminated.
22.   Tariff Reform. The elimination of quantitative restrictions, import prohibitions and
cumbersome licensing requirements pursued under ITPAC, coupled with the establishment
and thereafter maintenance of competitive exchange rates, still left in place a high and
dispersed level of tariff protection. A program of tariff rationalization was introduced in
January 1988, when specific tariffs were substituted by ad valorem rates; tariff categories were
reduced from 69 to 21, with a minimum rate of 5 percent scaling up to a maximum of 110



-7-
percent. The maximum tariff rate has been gradually reduced and reached 60 percent in the
1991 Budget Law, leaving only 12 categories. The surcharge introduced for the previously
prohibited products was phased out a year earlier than originally envisaged, in January 1990.
in February of 1988 the Government also eliminated "end-use' taxation applicable to
approximately 500 products. The 1989, 1990 and 1991 tariff reforms went a long way towards
reducing the dispersion of the tariff distribution, eliminating cascading to a very large extent.
The unweighted mean tariff rate reached 32 percent in 1990 and is expected to go down to
about 29 percent in 1991, while the dispersion was 20 percent in 1990 and would be about
17 percent in 1991. This in turn had a major impact towards reducing effective protection.
(see table 1)
23.   Price Decontrol.  Under ISAC, the decontrol of the ex-factory price of all
manufactured goods was initiated. By late 1986, the number of goods under price control was
further reduced to ten. The Government had nevertheless maintained controls on profit
margins between ex-factory and retail prices for all industrial products. These controls were
maintained in an effort to curb inflationary pressures resulting from the protection of
monopolistic local industry existing in an environment of import-substitution. To meet
ITPAC's conditions of effectiveness, the Government eliminated all profit margin controls.
However, maximum price guidelines remained on all but 16 industrial goods. Decree No.
989/89 of the Ministry of Commerce, dated February 20, 1989, removed all price controls and
recognized a free market system for the production and sale of all goods.
24.   Public Investment Program. The Government of Madagascar sought to rationalize
the public investment program which had reached unsustainable levels due to the uneconomic
nature of the projects undertaken prior to 1982. Under ISAC, the quality of industrial
projects had improved and the size of the program had been trimmed back. Project appraisal
capabilitik, were also improved at the Ministry oF Industry level. In 1986 an agreement was
also reached on an agricultural sector investment program. Under ITPAC, the overall PIP
process was improved and agreement was reached for the 1987 national PIP during project
preparation, followed by agreements on the 1988 PIP before second tranch disbursement.
Agreement on the 1989 and 1990 PIP was reached in the course of reviewing the
implementation progress on ITPAC and PSAC.
25.   Public Enterprise Reform. Prior to ISAC the Govermment controlled about 170
companies or 97 percent of domestic industrial output. The majority of these received
subsidies from the Government and suffered from managerial, technical and financial
problems. The 1983 IMF stabilization program sharply reduced these subsidies. Following
this reduction, the fully Government-owned banking sector continued to keep these
enterprises alive. ITPAC's objective was to liquidate or privatize a definite number of public
enterprises. At appraisal, a list of ten enterprises was identified for the preparation of
diagnostic studies, but there was a three-month delay by the Govemment in presenting the
Bank with the result of these studies. At second tranche release, it was agreed that
completion of the divestiture or liquidation phase was to occur by December 1988 In fact
this was only partially achieved by December 1990. By this date six companies had been
liquidated, three were sold to private sector investors and the sole remaining company was
given an extension for its sale or liquidation until May 1991. The ITPAC conditions were
substantially met only after considerable delays. Indeed, difficulties linked to implementation
of the privatization/liquidation of the ten public enterprises largely explain the delays in the
release of the third tranche of the credit.



26.   The public enterprise reform program has been cxpanded and continued within the
Public Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1941-MAG) approved on July 18, 1988. A
comprehensive multi-year program has been formulated and is being implemented, with
dissolution or divestiture actions having been initiated for about 50 public enterprises. An
indefinite moratorium on the creation of new public enterprises was established in 1988, a
ceiling on total credit to the parastatal sector has been included in the monetary programs
since 1985, new credit to 'high risk" public enterprises has been prohibited and the
Government has frozen at the 1987 level the budgetary transfers to all these public
enterprises. The most important recent measure has been the c- ation in late 1990 by the
Government of a single autonomous Special Unit reporting to the Prime Minister's Office
with the responsibility to manage in its entirety the parastatal reform program. The Bank will
continue the monitoring of the public enterprise reform program under the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit and subsequent adjustment operations.
27.   Financial Sector Reform. The financial sector was highly inefficient and unable to
meet the challenges of a liberalized economy. ITPAC aimed at introducing the basis for
liberalizing the banking sector and paving the way for private sector participation. The
portfolios of the three state-owned banks were in need of major write-offs, mainly as a
consequence of the previous public enterprise funding policy. The restoration of sound
portfolios ind improvements in credit decision formulation seemed urgent and were included
as conditions in ITPAC. As a consequence of the portfolio audits initiated in 1986, loans in
the high risk category were immediately written down to the maximum allowable under
accumulated provisions. Additional provisions for the rehabilitation of the portfolios were
undertaken in April 1988 and again in February 1989. The Central Bank ensured that the
prescribed provisioning and write-offs were fully implemented. The Banking Law of May
1988, enacted in the context of the negotiations for the PSAC and APEX credits, further
established supervisory guidelines for the Central Bank and also allowed, for the first time,
the participation of private capital in existing banks and provided for the creation of new
private financial institutions. A new private bank called Banque Malgache de l'Oc6an Indien
(BMOI), with 75 percent foreign and 25 percent local ownership started operations in mid-
1989. Cr6dit Lyonnais, a French bank, now owns a majority share in BNI, and an Italian
bank, Banco de San Paolo, owns a minority share in BFV. Although the wording of the
specific conditionality on the IPAC credit was ambiguous, staff interpretation during
implementation was restrictive in the sense that tangible progress in the privatization process
had to be achieved for tranche release.
E. Project Formulation and Organization
28.   The conceptual foundation for this project was jointly established by the Government
and the Bank with the full support of the Fund. The Government of Madagascar,
encouiaged by progress under the IMF-supported stabilization efforts and the Bank sector
adjustment programs, requested IDA's help to continue and broaden the adjustment process
through measures partly based on the findings and recommendations outlined in the studies
initiated under ISAC. During the three supervisory missions of ISAC, a package of policy
reforms was developed and thereafter discussed with the Govemment both during a
preparatory mission in July 1986 as well as at the 1986 Annual Meetings. MAC was thus
the logical progression as the second phase in the structural adjustment process. The project
was designed to channel approximately 99 percent of the quick-disbursing proceeds of the
Credit to increasing foreign exchange availability for imports, thereby supporting the opening



- 9 -
up of the economy. The remaining proceeds were allocated to funding a study for the
restructuring of 10 pre-identified public sector enterprises and to develop audits of the
portfolios of the three state-owned banks (BNI, BFV and BTM).
29.   The public enterprise reform component of the MAC was in retrospect not well
designed. Almost all the enterprises included in the program were unprofitable and
economically non-viable and did not attract foreign interest. Private sector interest was, in
general, minimal. The Government was reluctant to liquidate them and feared that the
privatization would benefit the local Indo-Pakistanis. Delays in the implementation of the
public enterprise reform program cast doubt on the Government's commitment to
liberalization and discouraged private investors.
30    ITPAC was jointly financed by IDA (Credit 1834-MAG, for SDR 12.5 million), the
Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (Credit A-32-MAG, for SDR 52.2 million), the Saudi
Fund (Credit for Rials 12 million), and the Japanese Government (OECF Credit for Yen 1
billion and Grant for Yen 1 billion). Disbursements were made directly to the Government
and administered through the Central Bank. Three tranches were foreseen for the IDA and
special facility credit, while the OECF Grant and Credit and the Saudi Fund Credit had no
tranching.
F. Project Implementation
31.   The operation was declared effective on September 21, 1987 as scheduled. The
second tranche, released on 18 April 1988, was three months behind schedule, partly due to
delays in import tariff reforms, but mainly because of serious difficulties on the privatization
and liquidation of public enterprises. A waiver was requested and the rel ase was done only
after three enterprises were liquidated and an action plan for the privatization or liquidation
of the other seven by December 1988 was agreed.
32.   Satisfactory implementation for the release of the third tranche in a timely manner
was achieved in five out of six areas of reform: (a) adoption of a four-year program of tariff
reform; (b) implementation of rules and procedures to be applied by the Central Bank in
supervising the banking sector; (c) imrnlementation of the portfolio restructuring plans for the
three fully Government-owned commercial banks (BNI, BTM and BFV); (d) introduction of
an open general licensing system for imports; and (e) elimination of all restrictions on profit
margins. However, actions taken on behalf of the ten targeted public enterprises for
privatization and/or liquidation encountered significant delays, in spite of the agreements for
second tranche release. The target date of July 1988 was extended to December 27, 1990.
By that time, six of the public enterprises have been liquidated, three were sold to the private
sector, and the remaining enterprise was granted a postponement of 3 months for its sale or
liquidation.
33.   The Malagasy legal environment was not favorable to privatization and/or foreign
ownership. Foreign ownership definition, dividend payment provisions, capital repatriation,
foreign currency denominated local bank accounts and employee retention provisions were
serious obstacles to privatization. The original investment code, enacted in 1973, provided
for some fiscal and other incentives but proved to be ineffective in its implementation. The
National Assembly approved a new code in 1985, but this was not very helpful. The
investment code was further discussed under PSAC and a broader version, more in tune with



- 10-
the Government's reform efforts, was published in December 1989. However, the
implementing decrees have reestablished some of the cumbersome bureaucratic procedures.
The absence of a well functioning capital market, including private placements, issuance and
dispersal of stock and an orderly secondary market, was also a serious drawback to an
efficient dispersal of public assets.
G. Impact of Adjustment
Aggreiate Supply Response 2'
34.   The overall impact of the turnaround of the Malagasy policy environment has not
been spectacular in terms of per capita growth and supply response has been neither
unexpectedly slow nor uniformally sluggish. In the rice sector, for example, the response to
the 1986 liberalization measures was practically immediate, with the 1987 season showing a
substantial production increase. The increase was slowed in 1988 by bad weather, but
resumed at an accelerated pace in 1989. Helped by liberalization and good weather, the
country has moved away from heavy import dependence in this key staple. In the
manufacturing sector, investment for export production is beginning to gather momentum, but
this is not yet reflected in aggregate export statistics. With regard to the timing of the
response in the economy as a whole, it was not realistic to expect much before 1989 because
the fundamental structural adjustment changes did not begin in earnest until 1987-88 with the
reforms in the tariff and exchange regime. But around mid-1988 a response started to appear.
35.   The twelve months between the large devaluation of June 1987 and the introduction
of the Open General License (OGL) import system on July 1, 1988 was a key transition
period to the beginning of recovery. For the first half of 1987, the tight administrative import
regime required by the overvalued exchange rate continued to be an obstacle to sustained
economic expansion, but it provided short-term insulation against sharp reductions in imports
of intermediate goods. The June 1987 devaluation was an essential prerequisite for moving
the economy to a higher growth path, but it temporarily reduced domestic absorption, and
the economic situation consequently did not improve through early 1988. Indeed, exports and
imports continued their decline through the middle of 1988, along with private sector credit
and GDP.
36.   The impact of the devaluation, both on prices and on domestic demand, was absorbed
relatively quickly. In April 1988, inflation began to decelerate rapidly and economic activity
began to recover. Real GDP grew by 3.4 percent for 1988 and by 4.1 percent in 1989.
Growth in 1990 continued at a slower pace (3.5 percent), yielding the third consecutive year
of per capita GDP increase. Thes.e changes in the level of major aggregates gain added
credibility from concomitant improvements in their composition, with imports of capital goods
and long-term credit growing especially fast. Employment data in Madagascar cover less than
10 percent of labor force and show some stagnation. However, partial information suggests
that the informal sector has been an important and growing source of employment
opportunities.
? This section draws from the 1991 Country Economic Memorandum



- 11 -
37.   Since 1984, the poor performance of total exports has mainly reflected the price and
volume declines of the "traditional" export crops of Madagascar, namely, coffee, cloves and
vanilla. The relative share of these three products in the Malagasy exports declined from a
maximum of 68 percent in 1984 to 48 percent in 1989. Because of the decline in aggregate
exports, it would be misleading to call this "diversification". Actually, in value terms, exports
other than coffee, cloves and vanilla collapsed from US$171 million in 1980 to US$114
million in 1987. In 1988 and 1989, however, non-traditional exports picked up markedly,
spurred by the liberalization measures and by the devaluation. (see table 2)
38.   Overall, the impact of the exchange rate devaluation on Malagasy exports was
disappointing. For the 1980-89 period, the elasticity of exports with respect to the real
effective exchange rate was very low. However, this low elasticity does not diminish the
importance of maintaining a competitive exchange rate to develop and diversify exports. First,
the low elasticity of total exports reflects the inelasticity of traditional Malagasy exports. In
turn, this is partially explained by the Government policy of severing farmgate prices from
border prices, thereby preventing a pass-through of the exchange rate adjustment. Second,
the supply response to exchange rate variations was better for non-traditional exports.
39.   Given the stagnation of exports, merchandise imports bore the brunt of the external
adjustment in the 1980s. At constant prices, Malagasy imports fell by more than 60 percent
between 1980 and 1989. Over the decade, the major instrument used to compress imports
shifted from quantitative restrictions to exchange rate policy. The major devaluation of 1987
enabled the dismantling of the quantitative restrictions, the implementation of the tariff
reform, and the move to a free foreign exchange allocation system for imports. Quick
disbursing resources from external assistance, including ITPAC, made possible a substantial
increase in imports, especially in 1989 and 1990. (see table 2)
Supplv ResRonse in the Industriai Subsectors
40.   The core objective of this project was to implement trade policy reforms which would
in turn stimulate increased efficiency in resource allocation. Because the long-term nature
of the liberalization process, it is too early for a full assessment of the project's impact.
However, certain trends are manifesting themselves and support the hypothesis that the
private industrial sector in particular is responding positively. The most satisfactory change
in the economy that resulted from the ongoing reforms in the increased outward orientation
of the historically import-substituting industry. The successful macroeconomic stabilization
and, in particular, the devaluations and liberalization of the import and export procedures,
have stimulated private sector development of the garment, knitwear and food processing
industries.
41.   Until 1986, firms operated well below capacity, at rates averaging 45 percent and
never exceeding 60 percent, owing primarily to the uncertain and discriminatory allocation of
scarce foreign exchange. Since 1987, industrial capacity utilization has gradually risen by
about 15 percentage points to 60 percent on average, even in the face of weak domestic
demand. The increasing profitability of exports due to the 1987 devaluation, and the non-
discriminatory allocation of the increased foreign exchange supply since the adoption of the
Liberalized Import Regime, are major contributors to the rising capacity utilization. The
garment subsector, which is driven by export demand, made the most impressive gains in
industrial capacity utilization, reaching a rate of 85 percent in 1988, from a 1986 utilization



- 12 -
rate of 50 percent. So rapid was the expansion that some firms had to bring into productive
use for the first time idle equipment that had been in storage for ten years.
42.   The liberalization of imports and the increased access to foreign exchange also created
a new pattern of stock management. Heretofore importers maintained a six-month to a year's
supply of imported spare parts and inputs so as to sustain current production requirements.
This has been cut back by half, generating savings of between six and eight percent of total
proauction cost. The reduction in aggregate import demand was temporary because the
additional capacity utilization and expansion required increased imported inputs.
43.   A trend towards rationalization in production was another significant behavioral
adjustment which resulted from having an increased availability of imported goods in the
domestic market. Market forces have required firms to rethink their production patterns as
well as their pricing policies. This rationalization has, however, not taken place in sectors
where distribution is restricted, such as tobacco and pharmaceuticals. Significant gains have
been achieved in raising the level of quality control and reducing production costs. Product
quality levels in the export sector are still lagging behind international standards, even though
substantial progress has been made. Specific subsectors, such as the garment industry, have
met the stringent international requirements and are producing high quality labor-intensive
goods.
44.   Smaller private sector enterprises have been reacting more rapidly to the
rationalization process. This is primarily due to lingering attitudes prevalent under past
monopolistic and protectionist practices that the large capital-intensive firms enjoyed for many
years. In some areas, adjustment is also slower due to the built-in financial inefficiencies, the
prevailing but outmoded employee retention schemes, and the continued use of inefficient
capital-intensive technologies. In some areas adjustment has now firmly taken hold, as is
illustrated by the shoe manufacturing subsector, which trimmed its work force through normal
attrition and streamlined its product line by reducing from two thousand to two hundred the
styles it is producing. The shoe industry has also increased the use of locally produced
intermediate inputs by 50 percent.
45.    Enterprises that rely on labor rather than fLxed assets are more flexible in adjusting
to the Malagasy reform measures. Although labor is almost a fixed production cost because
of the strict regulations regarding lay-offs, labor is more easily adjusted than technology, and
it is cheaper than capital. Averaging only 5-8 percent of production costs (15 percent for
smaller enterprises), Madagascar clearly has had a competitive edge over the Asian miracle
countries by a factor of five, in terms of hourly compensation rates for workers, since the
1987 devaluation.  This margin is considered sufficient to compensate for the skill
differentials.
46.   A 1988 study on free trade zones, financed under MAC, concluded that such zones
could bring positive results in the near term. Encouraged by the economic success that
Mauritius has had in the past decade with the establishment of the free trade zones, the
Malagasy Government established the legal framework with Law 89-027 of 1989. Recently
an agreement was signed with a group of Chinese investors, where the Government granted
a free trade zone clearance for the port of Toamasina and delivered a fifty-year renewable
lease. The investors have agreed to make a US$650 million investment in the Zone over
fifteen years and it is estimated that 78,000 jobs will be created over this period.



- 13 -
47.   Madagascar has been able to exploit its comparative labor advantage in the garment
and knitwear subsectors. Firms in these subsectors can be identiried as pre-liberalization,
mostly import-substituting, and the post-liberalization, export oriented entrepreneurs catering
to the "higher volume--lower price" segment of the international market. An interesting
exception to this pattern is the export oriented producer of hand crafted, high quality
children's wear. The footwear subsector had traditionally been quasi-monopolistic, with one
firm controlling 64 percent of the domestic mark-et and the remaining 36 percent covered by
artisanal small producers. In 1988, sixty-three percent of primary materials had to be
imported by the main producer, but by 1989 this had fallen to 50 percent. Reliance on
subcontracts for some of the production also became more cost effective for the major
producer. The subcontracting aspect had a very stabilizing effect on smaller producers who
were beginning to face severe competition from imports. New entries in this subsector are
positioning themselves as exporters.
48.   The seafood processing subsector has a high capacity utilization rate and ninety
percent of production is exported. Offshore fishing is a growing industry and specific
agreements have been signed with Japan and the European Community. Major gains, since
1987, have been noted in shrimp fishing and farming. Aquaculture pilot projects have been
established in the coastal regions for shrimp and oyster farming. Shrimps now account for
approximately seven percent of total exports and the farming operations could substantially
raise that figure as they near full capacity.
The Results in Public Enterprise Reform
49.   A "score card" of public enterprise reform from 1988 through mid-1991 shows the
following: (i) credit to parastatals fell from 47 percent of total non-government credit at end
1987 to 30 percent at end 1990; (ii) dissolution or divestiture actions have been initiated for
70 public enterprises (out of the total of 170) and fully completed for 34 of them; (iii) the
important textile industry, in particular, is in the process of going from almost entirely state-
owned to fully privatized; (iv) restructuring plans have been formulated for the six largest
agricultural and commercial parastatals; (v) encouraging improvements have been made in the
financial situation and management of certain important public utilities, particularly the
electricity and water company (JIRAMA) and the national railroad; and, as noted in
paragraph 26, (vi) a single entity to manage the reform process has been established. Because
of the heterogeneity of the parastatal sector in Madagascar, it is impossible tco "measure" on
a precise uniform yardstick the economic importance of the actions taken. Nonetheless, a
combination of criteria (value added, employment, invested capital, etc.) leads to the
conclusion that the reform actions already completed or underway affect about one third of
the parastatal sector as a whole.
H. Conclusions
50.   Madagascar has made significant progress in its shift from a command economy, with
almost two decades of economic decline, to a market oriented economy. From 1988 to 1990,
economic recovery continued at a reasonable pace, although Madagascar still remains highly
dependent on external aid. Efforts must be made to stimulate private savings and investment
among both households and enterprises and to expand exports.



14 -
51.   IT.PAC was successful in carrying forward the reform effort in Madagascar and setting
the stage for renewed interest in Madagascar by domestic and foreign private investors. This
achievement was helped by the following features of the operation:
(a)  the implementation of trade reforms was conditioned on a credible fiscal
program that achieved and maintained internal balance;
(b)  currency devaluation made the elimination of quantitative restrictions consistent
with the balance of payments objectives;
(c)  the tariff reduction stage was phased to come after stabilization and was
coordinated with the stabilization program;
(d)  accompanying domestic regulatory/institutional reform, which focussed on
reducing Government discretion and facilitating business entry and exit,
increased the effectiveness of the reforms;
(e)  implementation and monitoring of the trade reform was facilitated by the
specificity of conditionality in terms of removal of quantitative restrictions and
of reduction of both maximum and average nominal tariffs and the dispersion
around the average;
52.   Under IITAC, Madagascar built on the first tentative steps under previous operations
to firmly put Madagascar on the path to becoming an open market oriented economy.
Nevertheless, ITPAC was not able, on its own, to underpin such a radical transformation.
Parallel and successor operations addressed imbalances in the public sector (PSAC), mitigated
the social costs of adjustment (PASAGE) and provided resources to encourage private
productive investment (APEX). Furthermore, remaining distortions in the labor market, in
restrictions on currency convertibility for current account transactions and civil service reform
are expected to be tackled in future adjustment operations.
53.   Nevertheless, recent developments (such as continuing concern with the weak
performance of domestic taxes and heavy reliance on foreign aid, lack of currency
convertibility for non-trade current account transactions and lack of momentum for further
reform in the trade of services), suggest that the adjustment could have been more effective
if:
(a)  trade reform had been directly linked to domestic tax reform, in particular excise
and value added taxation. Poor revenue performance is gerAerating pressures to
raise revenue from trade taxes;
(b) consideration had been given to whether the large amount of financing was
sustaining the real exchange rate at an artificially high level (thereby perhaps
hindering a better export performance), especially given that free access to
foreign exchange was essentially limited to trade in goods;
(c) a timetable had been agreed at an early stage for achieving full convertibility of
the Malagasy Lranc for all current account transactions--this would have given



- 15 -
more incentives for private investment and facilitated the privatization process
that hindered disbursements under the Credit;
(d) the eventual end-point of trade reform had been discussed explicitVy is the
current 35 percent average tariff with 15 percent dispersion adequate when
industrialized countries have tariffs of about 5 percent and high performing
developing countries now have average tariffs of about 10 percent; and
(e) during implementation more emphasis had been placed on the need for rapid
reform in regulations controlling private investment and incentives to private
investors, including foreigners, so as to get the fuli supply response and
efficiency gains generated by the trade reforms.
54.   These design improvements, with the benefit of hindsight. would probably have
increased ITPAC's effectiveness. More generally, it is possible to argue that the authorities
could have managed the program better by implementing reforms in a more determined and
less gradual manner. Their hesitancy, particularly with respect to defining the role the the
State and of PEs in the economy, sent mixed signals to the private sector and caused it to
adopt a wait and see attitude. With hindsight, it is clear that actual results, in the form of
supply response, could have been much more impressive if the reform program had been
carried out with greater vigor. As noted in this report, however, the Madagascar reform
program is generally considered as a relatively successful adjustment experience in Sub-
Saharan Africa and ITPAC had an important contribution to this achievement.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1834-MAG and A-32-MAG)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Government of Madagascar typically comments on PCRs. Indeed, it had
provided extensive comments on the PCR for the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit, the
first adjustment operation in Madagascar, which was sent to OED in June 1991. Due to the
current political transition, the Government was not able to comment on this PCR by the end
of November 1991, as we had requested in September 1991. We do not believe that the
Government will be able to comment in the near future and we, therefore, decided not to
delay the processing of the PCR.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1834-MAG and A-32-MAG)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
CREDIT DATA
Amounts (SDR million)
As of June 30, 1991
Original     Disbursed   Canceled    Repa&d          Outstanding
IDA 1834-MAG (SDR)                         12.5            12.5       0.00         0.00              12.5
SFA A-32-MAG (SDR)                         52.2            52.2       0.00          0.00             52.2
SUB-TOTAL (SDR)                            64.7           64.7        0.00          0.00             64.7
SALIDI LOAN (RIALS)                        12.0           12.0        0.00          0.00             12.0
OECF LOAN (YEN)                           1,000.0      1,000.0        0.00          0.00         1,000.0
JAPAN GRANT (YEN)                        1,000.0       1,000.0        0.00         0.00              0.0
SU-B-TOTAL (YEN)                         2,000.0       2,000.0        0.00          0.00         1,000.0
Original Credit Dates                 Revised
Initiating NMeorandum.                                  30 October 1986
Letter of Development Policy                             5 June 1987
Negotiations                                             April/May 1987
Board Approval                                           30 June 1987
Signature: IDA, SFA, Saudi Loan                          10 July 1987
Japanese Loan/Grant                         10 July 1987                     20 October 1987
Credit Effectiveness: IDA, SFA, Saudi Loan               21 September 1987
Japanese Loan/Grant             19 April 1988
First Tranche Release                                    21 September 1987
Second Tranche Release                                   January 1988                     18 April 1988
Third Tranche Release                                    Juty 1988                       27 December 1990
Closing Date                                             31 December 1989                31 March 1991
CUWUIATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY87        FY88         FY89       FY90        FY91
IDA 1834-NAG (SDR)                   Planned      4.17        12.50           12.50     12.50        12.50
Actual       2.78         8.50            8.51      8.51        12.50
SFA A-32-MAG (SDR)                   Planned     17.40        52.20           52.20     52.20        52.20
Actual      12.50        29.68           29.85     29.85        52.20
TOTAL (SDR)                                      15.28        38.18           38.36    38.36         64.70
Actual Total as Planned Total                    71           59              59        59          100
OECF CREDIT (YEN)                                N.A.         N.A.           250.25   475.77   1,000.00
JAPAN GRANT (YEN)                                N.A.         N.A.         1,000.00    N.A.         N.A.
SAUDI LOAN (RIALS)                               N.A.         N.A.           N.A.       N.A.         N.A.



- 18 -
MISSION DATA
Month/Year         No. of Weeks    No. of Persons    Staff Weeks         Report Date
Preparation        June 1986                                                                10/30/86
AppraisaL          Nov/Dec 1986              3                 8                 16         12/16/86
Post-Appraisal    February 1987              1                 3                 3          03/02/87
March 1987              2/3                 2                 5          04/03/87
Supervision        September 1987            2                 2                 4          10/07/87
January 198             2                 2                  4          02/05/88
February 1988            2                 3                  6          03/01/88
June/JuLy 1988           4                 3                 12          07/20/88
October 1988              1                 1                 1          10/88
Jan/reb 1989             2                  3                 4          02/13/89
June 1989                1                  1                 3          07/17/89
Oct/Nov 1989             2                  3                 6          11/14/89
JuLy 1990                1                  1                 2          08/02/90
September 1990           1                  1                 1          09/22/90
Completion         Feb\March 1991            1                 1                  1         03/91
FOLLTW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
Public Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1941-MAG) approved on June 29, 1988.



- 19 -
Table 1    Socected economic indicators, 19865-90
Annual averages
1966-73 1973-80 1980-84    1986    1986    1987    1988    1989         1990
Percentage Growth
Cross Domestic Product             3.6     1.2     -2.3      1.1      2.0     1.2      3.4     4.1     3.5
Primary sector                   ...    -0.4       1.6     1.2.    3.1      2.3      2.4     6.2     1.i
Secondary sector                         1.6     -8.8      1.3      3.8     4.S      1.9     0.9     8.3
Tertiary sector                          1.8     -3.3      1.0     0.8    -0.8      4.6      4.1     4.3
Exports                          ...     1.9    -10.8    -3.3    -1.9    29.2    -4.9    28.0        0.7
Impcrts                                  2.7    -16.1    -1.4    -3.7    -8.2    -1.6        0.9    20.0
Percentage of GDP */
Total consumption                ...    97.9     99.0    99.7    95.6    96.3    93.4   90.9        91.8
Private consumption              ...    85.7     88.5    90.0    86.8    86.2    86.2   82.1        83.2
Public consumption               ...    12.2     10.6      9.8      8.8     9.1     8.1    8.9       8.6
Domestic saving                  ...     2.1      1.0      0.3     4.4      4.7     6.6    9.1       8.2
Gross investment                 ...    12.6      9.8      8.6      9.0    10.1    13.3   13.6      16.9
Resource balance                       -10.6     -8.8    -8.2    -4.8    -6.4    -8.7   -4.4        -8.7
Memorandum items:
Annual X change in CPr          3.4      9.0     21.1    10.8    14.6    16.C    26.3    9.0        11.8
Gross national saving            ...    -1.0     -3.1    -1.0      0.3    -0.8       1.2    3.3      5.2
(as % of GDP)
a/ Based on current prices.
Source: Government of Madagascar; and Bank staff estimates.



- ?fl -
Table 2     Summary balance of payments, 1980 and 1986-90
(millions of dollars)
1980      1985        1986      1987     1988      1989      1990
Exports of goods (fob)             438        282         329       311      280       319      302
Imports of goods (fob)             784        334         331       31F      312       314      468
Trade balance                  -327         -62           -2       -4      -32        -6     -158
Exports of NFS                    79         59          76        97      118       132      169
Imports of NFS                  320         187         208       229      249      246       284
Resource balance                -se8       -160        -133      -138     -183      -109     -271
Net factor income                -45       -129        -165      -174     -169     -189      -159
Net current transfers            -21         32           34       53       69        81       6s
Current account balance         -834       -267        -264      -267     -263     -217      -382
Official transfers                  87         67         118       102      138       129      170
Long term capital flow
(not)                           358         152         229       248      209      179      101
Other                              -18         30         -17       -11       12      -24       -13
Overall balance                 -229         -8          76        82       88       80       104
Changes in reserves               -106         20         -70       -77      -40       -17     L16
other financing                    334        -12           -8       -6      -46       -43      -62
Uemorandum items:
rurrent account as % of GOP       -15.7        -8.9        -7.7      -9.9    -10.8    -8.8    -11.7
Exchange rate (FUG/USS)           211.3       682.6       876.3   1069.2  1407.1  1603.4   1494.1
Source: Government of Madagascar and Bank staff estimates.



- 21 -
Table 3: Exports and Imports by Major Category, 1987-90
(millions of dollars, and percentages)
1987        1988              1989               1990
Total Exports                                311.0             280.0             319.0              302.0
(fob, USSm.)
As X of total:
Traditional                                   60.4              48.9              47.0               39.4
Coffee                                      31.5              27.1              23.8               13.9
Vanilla                                     25.7              16.1              13.2               18.9
Cloves                                       3.2               5.7              10.0                6.6
Other                                         39.6              51.1              53.0               60.6
Total imports                                382.0             379.0             381.0              556.0
(cif, USSm.)
As X of total:
Food                                        12.8               4.5              10.2                7.2
Other consumer goods                        15.4              15.8              17.1               17.6
Erwigy                                      14.4              17.4              13.4               16.4
Other intermediates                         29.8              25.9              23.9               23.7
Capital goods                               27.6              36.4              35.4               35.1
Source: Goverrment of Madagascar and Bank staff estimates.



- 22 -
Table 4
AASCR:  @erchanIse Imports  1980I 90
(US oil lion)
aiaauu__mauuauuuuu                                                                       -
1980   198i   1962   19    196    1985   19M         1967   1966   19    1990
....................................... .................................. !..........
Food                     88.5   99.0  127.5   r:.6   50.3  46.0   51.8  49.1   17.2   39.0  60.0
o/v  Race I5.4   67.9  105.0  54.0  29.4  30.4   36.2  30.6   11.3   26.0   17.6
Energy                  159.2  126.9  133.9  90.2   99.3  65.2   58.5  53.3  65.5   51.5   90.7
Capital Goods           332.6  190.6  116.8  90.0  96.6   99.9  109.1  105.4  138.9  134.2  194.7
Intrmediate Goods       206.4  111.2  108.0  109.6  110.3  108.9  119.1  113.7  97.6   91.1  131.7
Conutr Goods            104.2   58.8   50.8  43.4  49.2   52.4   55.5  58.5   59.6   65.3   97.7
Other                    46.1   21.6   15.3   23.7    ..    ..    ..    ..           ..
TOTAL (c.i.f)         939.1  608.1  552.3  437.5  405.7  392.4  394.1  382.0  378.8  381.1  554.8
Coaposftion of imports CI)
.........................
Food                      9.4   16.3  23.1   16.6   12.4   11.7  13.1   12.6    6.5   10.2    7.2
a/u   RICe             5.9   11.2   19.0  12.3   7.3    7.7    9.2    8.0    3.0    6.8    3.2
Enerwy                   17.0   20.9   24.2   22.5   24.5   21.7  14.8  14.5   17.3   13.5   16.3
Capitel Goods            35.4   31.3   21.1   20.6  23.8  25.5   27.7  27.6   36.7   35.2   35.1
Intermediate Goods       22.0   16.3   19.5  25.0  27.2  27.6   30.2  29.8  25.8   23.9   23.7
Constr Goods             11.1    9.7    9.2    9.9   12.1   13.4   14.1  15.3   15.7   17.1   17.6
Other                     5.1    3.5    2.8    5.4      ..    ..    ..        ..    ..
TOTAL Cc.i.f)         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
.............           ................ ....   ...... ....   ...... ....   ...... ....  ...... .... ......... ............ ............ ...... 
Source: Nepaasy authoritis  Ke  1991.



- 23 -
Table 5
MADAGASCAR: Nerchadise Exports, 1960.90
(mitlion of I, volume In mtric tons, unit prices fn S/kg)
1980   1961   1962   1983   196    1965   19S6   1967   1966  199   1990
........................................................................................................
Graphite                      6.7    9.1    7.9    5.9    6.2    7.3    8.4   7.9   9.5   9.6   11.2
Voltm                      11.5  16.3  14.9   11.7   14.7   16.1   13.7   11.1   13.5  15.3   13.0
Price                       0.6    0.6   0.5    0.5    0.4    0.5    0.6    0.7   0.7   0.6    0.9
Other eports                 41.3   20.3   22.0  21.2  24.6   19.6  30.8  32.4  51.6  56.9  79.3
ofd ich:                  ...           .       ..                                  .
gutter ben                    2.6    0.2    1.5    3.2   3.4    3.3   2.2    5.4   3.2   2.0
Vqlsu                       3.7   0.4    1.9   5.7    5.2    4.9    2.3    2.6   4.3   3.3
Price                       0.7   0.5    0.8    0.6    O.7    0.7    1.0   2.1    0.8   0.6
.sether                       2.4    1.8    1.6    1.7   2.2    1.6    0.8    2.5    1.8   1.6
vo ue                       0.7    0.7   0.6    0.6    0.9    0.5    0.3    0.6   0.5   0.3
Price                       3.6    2.5    2.6    2.7   2.5    2.9    3.1   4.1    3.7   4.9
Medicinal ptants              3.9    1.S    1.2   0.9    1.1    1.0    1.2    1.3   0.8    0.7
Votum                       1.0    0.9    1.0   0.9    1.2    0.6    0.6    0.9   0.5    0.5
Price                       4.1    1.6    1.3    1.1    0.9    1.1    1.4    1.4    1.7   1.4
Corn                          0.0    0.0    0.2    0.0   1.6    0.2    0.0    1.5    2.5   3.2
YoLume                      0.2    0.0    0.9    0.0    7.7    1.1    0.0    7.4  20.0  20.8
PrIce                       0.1    0.0    0.2    0.0    0.2    0.2    0.0    0.2   0.2   0.2
usertz                        0.2    0.1    9.1    0.3    0.4    0.3    0.2    0.6   0.1    0.2
VolLu                       0.1    0.2    0.1    0.3    0.5    0.4    0.1    0.5   0.1   0.1
Price                       1.2    0.7    1.0   0.9    0.9    0.8    1.4    1.2   2.2    1.5
Canned meat                   1.5    0.7    0.6    0.6    0.9    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
Volue                       0.5    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
Price                       2.7   2.7    3.2    2.9   2.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Mica                          1.5    1.1    0.9    0.5    0.4    0.5    1.1    0.6    0.8   0.5
Voleu                       1.6    1.0    1.4    0.9    0.9    0.6    1.9    0.7    1.0   0.6
Price                       0.9    1.1    0.6    0.5    0.4    0.7   0.6    0.9   0.8   0.8
Lobsters                      0.2    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.2    0.7    0.6   2.4   2.3
Voltum                      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.0   0.1    0.2
Price                       8.4    6.2    8.1    9.6   10.6   9.6   12.4   15.4  16.9  14.5
Raffia                        2.3    1.5    1.2    0.8    0.9    0.6    1.0    2.7    I.7   1.0
Voleu                       2.6    2.0    1.6    1.5    1.7    1.1    1.1   2.1    1.3   1.0
Price                       0.9    0.8    0.7    0.6   0.5    0.6    0.9    1.3   1.3   1.0
Salt                          0.1    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.4   0.8
volue                       1.3    2.2    0.6    2.2    7.6    1.2   9.1    8.3   7.5   11,$
Price                       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.4    0.1    0.1   0.1    04 
Others (blance)              26.8   13.0   14.4   12.9   13.1   11.5   23.0   30.1   36.7  40.0
ReeJports                    35.4   16.5   17.0  16.0    5.7   12.6    9.2    0.0    2.9   1.5
Total                     435.2  332.0  326.5  309.8  337.1  291.3  329.3  309.8  279.6  319.1  302.0
owes:...   s.us N                M._   55.  .                               U      m.. Sin -m
Source: Nalegasyuthnorities, May 1991.



- 24 -
Table 6: Nominal Protection Rates (X) 1988-89
As of ApriL 1988        As of JulY 1988          As of January 1989
Unweighted   Weighted   Unweighted   Weighted   Unweighted  Weighted
Whole Econroy                        46.0         31.7         45.7         30.9         41.5         28.7
Agriculture                         53.3                      53.3                      47.7
Mining                              20.7                      19.6                      17.9
Manufacturing                       46.0         32.9         45.8         32.1         38.8         29.8
By Use:
Consumption Goods                  67.6                      72.5                     57.7
Intermediate Goods                 32.2                      26.8                     27.9
Capital Goods                      31.5                      31.3                     31.0
By Sector:
Food, Beverages & Tobacco          61.1         62.6         62.8         64.4        55.3         55.2
Textiles & Leather                 69.9         70.8         79.4         77.2        61.9         58.1
Wood, Cork & Products              59.7         69.4         59.7         69.4        61.9          70.3
Paper & Printing                   38.4         37.3         34.0         33.5        35.2         35.1
Chemicals, Petroleum & Coal        35.6         34.0         27.0         26.8        22.0          22.8
Non-metallic MineraLs              39.4         38.5         39.3         38.6        39.8          42.1
Basic Metal Industries             22.7         21.9         19.1         16.7        24.4          27.7
Metal Products & Machinery         31.0         32.3         35.5         31.7        34.2          30.4
Other Manufacturing                55.0         53.2         54.4         52.7        53.3          41.2
Source: Data provided by Malagasy authorities and World Bank estimates



- 25 -
Table 7 : Consumer price developments, 1980, 1985-90
(1972 u 100; traditional households)
Category (weight)                          1980     198S     1988     1987     1988      1989    1990
Food (60.35)                                238.8   592.0   709.3    766.9   919.5    1003.4   1144.2
Fuel and electricity (6.14)                 213.1   483.2    499.8   689.5    895.2        986.7   1068.2
Domestic services (1.82)                    133.3    210.2    223.0    262.9    306.1      338.7     368.3
Maintenance, (14.85)                        185.1    452.6    604.1    887.0   980.8    1094.7   1168.4
Miscellaneous (13.84)                       199.2   633.6   667.6    694.8    981.2        100.3   1110.9
General index  (100.00)                     221.1   S51.3   631.2   728.8   920.6   1003.8   1122.1
Annual changes (%)
Food                                      ...       11.0     19.8      8.1      19.9       8.8      14.0
Fuel and electricity                      ...        8.9      8.4     38.0      29.8      10.1       8.4
Domestic services                         ...        6.9      6.1     17.9      16.4      10.7       8.7
Maintenance                               ...        7.6     11.4     36.3    39.8        14.0       6.7
Miscellaneous                             ...        5.1      6.4     22.4      41.2       2.7      10.3
General Index                                         10.6     14.5      15.5     26.3       9.0      11.8
Source: C,vernment of Madagascar.



- 26 -
Table 8    Government revenue and expenditure, 1980, 1985-90
(billions of FUG)
1980     1986      1986      1987     1988      1989       1990
Revenue and grants                  128.7    273.1    301.3    468.4    642.2    826.1         749.3
Domestic revenues                 128.7    244.8    285.4    402.1    449.0    481.0         547.1
Grants                              0.0      28.6     36.9      68.3      93.2    184.1      202.2
Total expenditure                   238.1    346.8    372.8    660.8    666.8    788.0         784.1
Current expenditure               142.0    212.8    232.4    299.4    350.1    399.8         418.9
Personnel                          64.0    109.0    116.6    141.3    168.9    176.9         193, 
Goods and services                 32.8      39.8     35.7      48.0      47.9     66.3       78.3
Other                              46.2      63.8     80.1    112.1    137.1    156.6        148.3
Capital expenditure                 96.1    134.2    140.4    229.3    305.9    388.2         365.2
of which: on-lending
Deficit on a commitment basis       109.4      73.7      71.6     92.4    114.7    162.9         34.8
Adjustments                        12.9      -1.7       1.2      4.4       6.8       3.1       8.4
Cash deficit                      122.3      72.0     72.7      96.8    120.6    166.0        43.2
Memorandum items: (as % of COP)
Revenue and grants                 16.1      14.2      13.6     18.7      16.8      16.8      16.2
Totel expenditure 3/               29.4      18.0      18.8     20.2      19.3      20.0      18.9
Budget deficit                    -14.3      -3.8     -3.3      -3.6      -3.6      -4.2      -0.9
3/ Includes adjustments.
Source: Government of Madagascar and Bank staff estimates.



- 27 -
Table 9: Coumprison of Projected Versus Actual Ecoro ic Indicators 1988-90
Project Averge Annual Percent Growth Rates
AdJustment            AdJustment scenario   Actual average                          Actual Data
scenario with 3X      with 3.5X growth        annual percent           (millions FG constant 1984 prices)
growth 1988-90        rates 1988-90           growth rates 1988-90
1987      1988      1989      1990
GDP                    3.0                    3.4                      3.7            1769.0   1829.0   1904.0   1971.0
Consumption            2.6                    3.2                      1.2            1625.0   1632.0   1625.0   1685.8
Investment             4.3                    4.3                     21.4             182.0     243.0    255.0    320.7
Exports                7.8                    7.8                      7.9             274.0   260.0       333.0    335.0
lImports               2.5                    4.7                     6.4              312.0    307.0    310.0    371.5
Adjustment scenarios are derived from ITPAC President's Report (June 5, 1987).
Actual data are from Government data and Bank staff estimates (see June 1991 CEN).



Figure 1 Real and nominal exchange rates
IgsOA00                                        1982-89
120
100
80  : . . . @ @ ,, . . . *    Real Elf. Ex. Rate                 \
NomEN. Ex. . Rate
60-
40
20   JI I I I I I i I I a     I I I             I   I If  I  I I I 1  I I I I I I I a I I 1.  I.  l]    IJ..ll I I I  I I I I I I I  I I I I I I I I I  I I I  I I I I  I I I I     I I 1   I I I_
Jan     Aug      Mar       Od      May      D e    Ji         Feb      8eP       Ar    Nov         Jun      Jan
1     82             83                              e 84  s 85     86               87             s      69
bonth I Year



Figure 2 Saving and Investment,1960489
(percentage of GDP)
0.14
0.13
0.12 t    Gross domestc investment
0.11
0.1
0.09
0.08
0.07                    ~~~4                                                                     .
0.07
0.05                    r
0.03  -~ 
0.02                / -                    l            \      /         'I
0.01                              I        I
0
-0.02-
-0.03                                      Gross domesti saving
-0.04  -
-0.05    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1     1    1982 1    1              1989
1960 1962 1964 1966 1968 1970 1972 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986    1989



