Docuncent or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
f    l   --I      - t  
Report No. P-4488-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 12.5 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 52.2 MILLION
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
June 5, 1987
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$ = 833 FMG (end May 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
APB   =  Professional Bankers' Association
BCRM  =  Central Bank of Madagascar
BFV   =  National Bank for Trade
BNI   =  National Bank for Industry
BTM   =  National Bank for Agriculture
CcP   =  Postal Checking System
CD    =  Certificate of Deposit
CNE   =  Postal Savings System
CNAPS = Social Security Fund
CPI   =  Consumer Price Index
DCL   =  Doubtful/Contentious Loans
DRC   =  Domestic Resource Cost
FNDE  =  National Fund for Development Expenditures
FNI   =  National Investment Fund
FNUP  =  Commodity Price Stabilization Fund
IMI   =  Malagasy Institute for Innovation
LIR      Liberalized Import Rpgime
MIEM  =  Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining
OGL   =  Open General Licence
OMNIS = National Military Office for Strategic Industries
PFP   =  Policy Framework Paper
PIP   =  Public Investment Program
SFA   =  Special Facility for Africa



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit  and  Program  Sunmary  .a..*                      ................................                i i
PART  I - THE  ECONOMY  ......................                                                             1
Background   *SIS*Pa*99aSeaaa@aagasaaaeaa*e. ga*a**...........                                      1
The  Crisis  Period                            .........                         eggs. ,           2
The  Scabilization  Period   ..*..........                                                         3
Medium-Term  Prospects  .......  ...                 ....................                          4
PART  II  -  INDUSTRY,  TRADE  AND  THE  FINANCIAL  SECTOR  .............                                  9
Industry  and  Trade  ........ a...**   a  aa .             a.   a g g a a ........... . e..........aa g   9
Past  Policy  Environment  ..S a         a.....ag..........ag.gg.g..                gg .......            10
The  Financial  Sector  ..... ...a....   a a a ........ aaag..                ......aa....  a..a          11
Structure  ................................. .         *. a                 ............          11
Performance  .              .......... ..................a.... 00G..6806800                       13
Interest  Rates  ................... ........g.a.a.a.a.a.a.g.sag..........g                       14
PART III -  THE GOVERNM.ENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  ...................                                       15
The  Adjustment  Process                                                      .......... we ...           15
Macroeconomic  Adjustment  .................a. aa  a aa..........                                 15
Sectoral  Adjustment                   .......................................                    16
Towards  Accelerated  Adjustment  ...............................aa                                       18
Exchange  Rate  Regime                                         ...Seasg.ag ggg.   ag ..............gg g g g   19
Foreign  Exchange  Allocation  and  Import  Liberalization   .....                                20
Tariff  Regime  a ag ca........             ...agga S .agagg S. a a.. a.ag..........   ......     22
Price  Decontrol  .           ...... a aaa   aagga            aa a        gg.......................  23
Public  Investment  Program  ................................                                     24
Public  Enterprises  .a.egagga. aagg....................                                          24
Banking  Sector  a a a.           .................. a          ........................          26
PART  IV  - THE  PROPOSED  CREDITS  aa aaaa...........               a a a a a  a a a a a a a................aaa  27
Credit History  ..aaaaaaaaaa.a a g.Ia                        g    .        aa.a.. .a.a....a... ..        27
Credit  Objectives  .......aa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaa............ a ....a.... a .a.a                 28
Program  Description  ...a           a. agae         a. a a.a. aa........................a                29
Effects  of  the  Adjustment  Program  ....................aa....a a....                                 29
Prospects  for  the  Economy  without  Adjustment   ..............                                29
Economic  and  Social  Impact  of Adjustment                      . ..................            33
Benefits  and Risks  aaagaaea aa........aaaaa ........................                                   35
Procurement  and  Disbursement  .......... aas                                                           37
Tranche  Release  and Monitoring  ...a a                  a............aeaa sa         ..      ..aaaa     37
Collaboration  with  the  IMP  ......agag..........................g.....                                 38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART V - BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR ......      38
The Existing Portfolio *.........  ........... ..............    38
Bank Strategy and Future Program         ..........................  40
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION ..o ..................                       41
ANNEXES:
1 -  Economic Indicators .....................................      42
2  - Status of Bank Group Operations                  .........     46
3 -  Supplementary Credit Data Sheet .....      ....................  48
4  - Government Statement of Industrial and Trade Policy   oo...     50



MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT CREDITS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:              Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Amount:                US$100 million equivalent, of which:  IDA, SDR 12.5
million (US$16 million); Special Facility for Africa,
SDR 32.2 million (US$67 million); and 12 million
riyals  (US$3.2  million)  from  Saudi  Arabia  and
2 billion yen (US$13.8 million), of which 1 billion
as a grant, from Japan under Special Joint Financing.
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms.
Credit Objectives
and Description:       The Credits aim at supporting policy reforms designed
to increase the efficiency and productivity of the
economy, reallocate resources to the more productive
sectors, reorient these sectors towards exports and a
greater use of domestic inputs, and stimulate the
revival of the efficient segments of the industrial
sector. This should increase the economy's capacity
to generate foreign exchange and grow after years of
contraction.  Following a significant effort in the
area of economic stabilization and some initial
policy improvements at the sectoral level, the
cornerstone of the proposed policy package is a major
trade liberalization supported by exchange rate
adjustment.   The  broadening  of  a  market-oriented
system for allocating foreign exchange would be
accompanied by the removal of protective import
prohibitions, rationalization of the import tariff
structure and further price decontrol.  The proposed
policy package would also include measures in the
areas of public investment, public enterprises and
the banking system.   The quick-disbursing proceeds
of the Credits would increase the total amount of
foreign exchange available to finance imports by all
economic agents under a liberalized import regime,
thereby supporting the movement towards a market-
determined foreign exchange allocation system.
Benefits:              A  liberalized  import  regime,  together  with  an
exchange rate level that reflects the supply and
demand for foreign exchange, and a domestic price
system substantially free from Government controls
should ensure that the more efficient enterprises are
able to expand their production levels and force the



- ii -
less efficient firms to improve or suspend their
operations.     By  raising. production  levels  of
competitive firms and enhancing the profitability of
exports, the proposed operation wculd contribute to
Madagascar's economic recovery, provide employment
opportunities to a growing labor force and help ease
the  balance  of  payments  constraint.   Reforms  in
public investment, public enterprises and in the
banking  sector  would  continue  the  process  of
achieving increased discipline in public sector
management, while at the same time encouraging
private sector initiative and imDroving the business
environment.
Risks:                 The main risk facing the proposed operation is that
the  Government's  commitment   to  the   continuing
adjustment process may waiver under pressure from
groups who are now benefiting from distortions.
This risk is mitigated by several factors.   First,
the prolonged and serious difficulties of the economy
and its bleak prospects without adjustment have
helped to lay the foundations of a consensus on the
need for sustained reform.  Support for the proposed
policies is growing in Government and private
circles.      Second,   the   Government   has   been
implementing  important  and  politically  sensitive
stabilization measures  since  1981 and some sector
reforms since 1984.  It has, therefore, been building
a credible record of gradual but cwntinuing reforms.
Third, the expected benefits from an improved
allocation of scarce resources and from increased
imports  that  these  Credits  would  entail  can  be
expected to give tangible and timely credibility to
the policy  reform package.   Fourth,  the Credits'
proceeds will be disbursed in three tranches, with
release of each tranche linked to satisfactory
implementation of agreed actions.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                    US$ Million
IDA FY                  1988           1989
Annual                   45             55
Cumulative               45            100
Appraisal Report:      This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.



- 1 -
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.01      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
IDA Credit of SDR 12.5 million (US$16 million equivalent) and a proposed
Credit from the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa of SDR 52.2 million
(US$67 million equivalent) to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar on
standard IDA terms, to help finance an industry and trade policy adjustment
program.   In addition,  12 million riyals from Saudi Arabia and 2 billion
yen from Japan, of which 1 billion as a grant, would be provided under
Special Joint Financing, bringing the total to US$100 million equivalent.
Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1 to this report.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
1.02      A  report  entitled  "Current Economic Situation and  Prospects"
(Report No. 5996-MAG) was distributed to the Executive Directors and to
the participants in the Madagascar Consultative Group in March 1986.  Its
conclusions as well as more recent developments are reflected below.
Background
1.03      With a population of ten million and a per capita income of
US$265 in 1986, Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world.
It is a large island, far from its trading partners, sparsely settled,
with widely dispersed urban centers and a population density of about
17 inhabitants per square kilometer.   While generally well endowed with
natural resources and a variety of soils, the country has large regional
variations  in ecology  and climate.   The  central plateau  is  the most
economically advanced region, while the coastal areas, particularly in
the south, are considerably poorer.  Agriculture is the mainstay of the
economy, accounting for two fifths of GDP, providing employment for over
four fifths of the population, and generating about four fifths of export
earnings (coffee, vanilla, and cloves).
1.04      For about a decade following independence in 1960, Madagascar's
economy grew at an average annual  rate  of  three percent.   The years
following 1972 marked a turning point in the country's political and
economic development. The Government which took office in 1972 emphasized
state control of the economy. It introduced inward-looking policies aiming
at self-sufficiency in industry and agriculture, nationalized most of the
larger private companies, adopted interventionist practices characterized
by price controls and administrative regulations, and established direct or
indirect state control over the greater part of agriculture marketing. The



- 2 -
present Government, which came to power in 1975, intensified, extended, and
codified these policies. Real GDP rose at an annual rate of only one half
of one percent between 1970 and 1978 as agricultural output stagnated and
Madagascar, which had been self-sufficient in food and a net exporter of
rice, became a heavy importer of rice, the main staple.
1.05      Through 1977, fiscal and balance of payments policies remained
cautious, and public external debt was kept at a low level.   Starting in
1978, in the face of stagnating economic activity, the Government attempted
to diversify the economy, and adopted a policy of "all-out investment" by
the public sector with greatly increased reliance for its financing on
external sources.   The share of investment, mostly public, to GDP rose
sharply to about 25 percent in 1979 and 1980, while the heavy resort to
foreign financing resulted in a four-fold increase in Madagascar's external
debt  between  1978  and  1980.    Many  of  the  projects  selected  were
economically  and  financially  unviable;  they  therefore  made  little
contribution to GDP, exports or debt servicing capacity. As a result, by
1980, the  debt  service  ratio was  rising  sharply.    Domestic economic
policies were also geared towards expansion:   the overall fiscal deficit,
which had averaged 2.5 percent of GDP between 1970 and 1978, surged to over
18 percent in 1980, and the inflation rate reached 30 percent per year.
The Crisis Period
1.06      The financial crisis that started in 1980 was the result both of
inappropriate policies and of external shocks.   As Madagascar's export
prices remained sluggish and international oil prices doubled, GDP and the
volume of exports continued to decline; external debt service obligations
(before rescheduling) relative to exports escalated from about four percent
in 1978 to about 72 percent in 1982, and the current account deficit of the
balance of payments reached 18 percent of GDP.  As resource constraints
tightened,  domestic investment  plummeted.    Under  the impact  of heavy
external payment obligations, declining export earnings, and reduced
creditworthiness, severe foreign exchange shortages prevailed. To prevent
a run on reserves, the Government increased quantitative restrictions on
imports while the exchange rate remained linked to the French franc until
1982, when it was pegged to a basket of currencies of major trading
partners. Import constraints, the severe rationing of foreign exchange and
an overvalued exchange rate contributed to a sustained decline in
industrial and agricultural production.
1.07      By 1982,  real per capita GDP had fallen by an estimated  28
percent from its 1973 level.   Major factors contributing to this decline
were: (a) the persistent climate of uncertainty within the private sector
created by the nationalizations of the mid-1970s, combined with the rapid
expansion of an inefficient and unmanageable public sector resulting from
takeovers and new ventures; (b) excessive market regulation, through price
fixing and controls which favored urban consumers, restrictive licencing
legislation, quantitative import restrictions and exchange controls, and
the establishment of national and regional marketing monopolies (for
cereals, agriculturs± inputs and basic commodities and for road and sea
transport); and, (c) the neglect of smallholder agriculture in favor of a
protected import-dependent manufacturing sector, including enterprises of
dubious economic value.



-3-
The Stabilization Period
1.08      In  1980,  faced with  a severe economic and financial crisis,
the Government, with IMF assistance, began to implement stabilization
measures.   Sustained spending austerity combined with measures to boost
revenues helped reduce the budget deficit and inflation.   Beginning in
1983, aggregate expenditure was steadily reduced and gross domestic savings
increased.   Measures were also taken to restore production incentives.
Between 1982 and 1985, the FMG underwent a depreciation of 48 percent
against the basket of currencies to which it is pegged; since then, the
exchange rate has depreciated by a further 35 percent through discrete
devaluations and adjustments based  on the  rate of domestic inflation.
Public sector tariffs were increased, while a program of liberalization
c' prices and markets was undertaken in the agricultural, industrial, arLd
transport sectors.
1.09      Between 1981 and 1986, the bulk of the fiscal adjustment was
accomplished by cutting capital expenditures, reducing general Government
activity, containing the expansion of the public sector payroll, and
phasing out subsidies to parastatals.  Given the low level of activity of
the economy, attempts to increase revenues were generally less successful.
The overall public sector deficit was, nonetheless, reduced from over
18 percent of GDP in 1980 to under 4 percent in 1986. Some of this decline
was due, however, to the replacement of explicit subsidies to public
enterprises  by  credit  from the  nationalized  banking system.    Current
budgetary deficits were eliminated starting in 1983, and the Government
has since been in a position to contribute to development expenditures.
Nevertheless, the size of the current surplus remsins small, so that
shortages of local cost financing are contributing to delays in the
execution of some foreign-financed projects.
1.10      Monetary developments during 1981-86 were generally in line with
fiscal developments, reflecting implementation of stabilization measures.
The annual monetary growth rate decelerated to 13 percent in 1985 compared
to 21 percent in 1981.  Furthermore, throughout the period, the growth of
credit to Government was reduced, and, beginning in 1982, credit to the
nongovernment (i.e., parastatal and private) sectors generally expanded
faster  than  credit  to  Government.    Domestic  inflation  was  reduced,
from about 30 percent in 1981 and 1982 to about 10 percent in 1985.
In 1986, the rate of inflation increased to 14.5 percent as monetary
growth accelerated from an average of 15 percent in 1984 and 1985 to
24 percent.
1.11      Madagascar's  balance  of  payments  remained  weak  throughout
1980-86, despite substantial annual reductions in the volume of imports.
The position remained weak owing to poor export performance and heavy debt
service payment obligations.   Stabilization efforts throughout the period
led to steady and marked improvements in the resource and current
balances.   By  1986,  largely due to a steady decline in imports,  the
resource gap had fallen to 25 percent of its 1980 level and the current
account deficit was brought down to 8.7 percent of GDP from 18.3 percent
in 1980. Without interest payments, the current account deficit would have
fallen from 17 percent of GDP in 1980 to less than 3 percen3t in 1986.
Following a real GDP decline of 12 percent in 1981 and 1982 combined, GDP



growth turned positive in 1983 and reached about two percent in both 1984
and 1985.  In 1986, however, the growth rate was only 0.8 percent.   This
slowdown was due largely to lower import growth as the foreign exchange
shortage worsened.
1.12      Between   1980  and   1986,   agricultural   output   fluctuated.
Production of rice remained at around two million tons of paddy per year.
Madagascar had to continue importing rice throughout the period, although
the volume imported declined from a peak 356,000 tons in 1982 to about
172,000 tons in 1986.   Production of other food crops (maize, potatoes,
cassava, sweet potatoes) grew steadily and significantly.  Coffee exports
since 1982 have averaged 50,000 tons per year, compared to 70,000 tons in
1980.   This decline was the result of low producer prices, shortages of
inputs and transportation bottlenecks.  Cotton production grew rapidly in
response to increased producer prices, and Madagascar became a net exporter
of cotton fiber.   The production of other industrial and export  crops
generally stagnated (e.g., tobacco and pepper) or declined (e.g.,
groundnuts), due to inappropriate pricing and marketing policies, which
reduced incentives to producers and traders.  Export volumes of two other
principal export crops, vanilla and cloves, were stagnant in the face of
monopolistic   export   practices   and   limited  world   market   demand,
respectively.
1.13      Industrial output declined sharply between 1980 and 1984 with a
modest recovery in 1985 and 1986. Manufacturing capacity has been heavily
underutilized owing to shortages of domestically supplied and imported
inputs and spare parts.   The 1985-86 rebound in manufacturing output was
due to increased external financing of inputs and parts. The construction
industry also remained slack.   In parallel to the slow growth of agricul-
ture and industry, transport activity also stagnated. Costs escalated due
to the dilapidated state of the transport system. Low administered tariffs
reduced incentives to private transporters, thus furrher discouraging the
provision of services.   To improve the transport system and the policy
environment, the Government selected an "economic network" of about
10,000 kms. of primary and secondary roads for priority rehabilitation;
established a fund for road maintenance; and permitted tariff increases for
road transport, railways and the national airline.   A national transport
plan is now being prepared with IDA support.
Medium-Term Prospects
1.14      Despite some progress, the external financial situation remains
difficult.   Export earnings, which had fallen sharply in 1985, increased
marginally in 1986, but remained close to their lowest level in recent
years.   Most of the decli-e is accounted for by pAcing and marketing
policies, administrative constraints and external market conditions for
agricultural exports.   Nontraditional exports also fell sharply, however,
partly  because  of  an  overvalued  exchange  rate.    Madagascar's  import
capacity has been increasingly constrained not only by the failure to boost
exports  but  also  by  declining  capital  inflows.         Substantial  debt
rescheduling brought the debt service ratio in 1986 down from 96 percent of
exports to a still very high 51 percent but net resource transfers to
Madagascar declined from about US$650 million in 1980 to about US$150
million in 1986.  As a result, imports (fob) in 1986 had to be limited to
about US$330 million, a drop of over 50 percent in real termn from their
1980 level (US$764 million).



1.15      Since the emergence of the debt crisis at the beginning of the
1980s, Madagascar has managed the balance of payments by cutting imports,
through the demand management measures described above, and by substantial
debt rescheduling.  These actions have yet to lead to a viable balance of
payments.   This objective  can only be achieved by rescoring growth in
export earnings.  Madagascar now has probably reached a limit to further
cuts  in imports  as  these are  down to bare essentials.    To generate
significant  amounts  of  debt  relief,  future  rescheduling  arrangements
would need to be more concessional than previously.  In addition, in the
future, Madagascar must attempt to boost export earnings as a means of
strengthening the balance of payments and reducing the debt burden.
Concessional balance of payments support from multilateral and bilateral
sources will continue to be needed for a number of years.
1.16      Based on the external debt portfolio at end 1986 (estimated at
about US$3 billion) and after taking into account pipeline disburseaaents,
Madagascar will need gross capital inflows of about US$450 million per year
during the 1987-90 period to cover slight increases in imports, meet
rescheduled debt repayments, and maintain a modest amount of gross foreign
exchange reserves.   The country will therefore need increased financial
assistance from the international comnunity in the form of grants,
concessional  borrowings  and  debt  relief.    The  conditions  on  which
Madagascar is able to obtain new finance and, especially, reschedule ics
debt are of crucial importance and will determine whether the country will
be able to overcome present external payment constraints.
1.17      Relations with the IMF are now proceeding smoothly.  Negotiations
over the years have been difficult but Madagascar has made serious efforts
to respect its agreements. Negotiations on the sixth standby program were
concluded in July 1986 and it was approved by the Fund Board in September.
The program involves measures to stabilize the economy, gradual exchange
rate adjustments, the introduction of a liberalized import regime (LIR),
the rehabilitation of selected parastacals, continued price liberalization
and improved domestic producer prices and marketing systems.   The first
standby review was successfully concluded in March 1987.   Madagascar is
eligible for IMF Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) resources, and a
medium-term program has been formulated with the help of the Bank and
the IMN.   Bank and IMF staff have worked in close collaboration on the
preparation and negotiation of the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) required
for access to the facility.  Negotiations or. the SAF are nearly complete.
1.18      The  third meeting of  the Consultative  Group  for Madagascar,
which  took  place  on April  25  and  26,  1986,  was  encouraging.    The
Consultative Group agreed that the Government's program of policy reforms
was on the right path and that it was urgent to pursue and develop this
program further.  It was recognized that if the Government's efforts were
to succeed, Madagascar needed substantial external support. This would be
provided by a combination of higher official development assistance,
particularly in the form of quick-disbursing aid, and debt rescheduling.
The Consultative Group is expected to meet again late in 1987. In October
1986, the Paris Club rescheduled about US$230 million of principal and
interest due between April 1986 and December 1987.  Rescheduled amounts



-6-
will be repaid over ten years, including five years of grace,   If, as is
expected, comparable relief is achieved from other official creditors, the
total relief for 1986/87 would come to about USS340 million.
1.19      While   Madagascar'.   prospects   for   economic   recovery   and
sustainable growth would be enhanced by a reversal of the recent trend in
net resource transfers, the Government recognizes that resource transfers
alone will not be sufficient to bring about economic recovery.   Improved
allocation of resources towards the more productive and foreign exchange
earning segments of the economy will be necessary.   Thus, in parallel to
i.ts commitment to contLnued stabilization measures and its request For
increased  support  from  the  international  financial   community,   the
Government's new policies will be directed towards increasing exports,
encouraging   economic   efficiency,   enhancing   competition,   reforming
institutions, reducing administrative controls, encouraging private sector
initiative and adopting measures that would allow market forces to play anl
increasing role in resource allocation.   These policies will be supported
by the operation recommended in this report.
1.20      Projections of Madagascar's growth prospects for the short  to
medium term (1988-90) suggest that, with the proper adjustment policies,
real GDP growth could reach an annual rate of 3.5 percent.   This would
permit a slight (0.4 percent per year) rise in private per capita
cansumption  in  this  period,  and  further  increases  thereafter.    This
Ecenario (summarized in Table  1) envisages  a return to the growth path
prior to the economic crisis brought about by inappropriate economic
policies and inefficient administrative controls. These projections, shown
in Annex 1, assume buoyant but feasible export growth, an acceleration of
project and nonproject finance, and continued debt relief.   The volume of
exports is projected to grow at about 7.8 percent per year, while the
volume of nonfood imports is expected to iticrease by 4.7 percent per year.
The implied output and export performance for agricultural products to
achieve the projected export expansion and food import decrease, is
comparable to levels achieved by the Malagasy economy in the early 1970s.
Export growth projections assume a slight improvement in international
coffee prices, and increases in producer prices and coffee production.
They also assume that nontraditional exports will increase, as incentives
to efficiently utilize existing excess capacity and to produce and export
are strengthened.  As a result, the current account deficit would decline
from US$330 million in 1987 to US$205 million in 1990.   Mainly due to a
significant shift toward quick-disbursing operations by external donors and
financiers, disbursements on foreign assistance are projected to accelerate
to about US$270 million annually between 1988 and 1990, about 30 percent
higher than the annual average for the 1984-86 period.
1.21      The accelerated adjustment scenario,  shown in Table 1, implies
a sizable financing gap. The current indications from donors and creditors
suggest that adequate financing can be mobilized with reasonable confidence
only  in support of a three percent GDP growth scenario.   This growth
rate, combined with a downturn in the 1987 terms of trade (which would
apply to either scenario), implies continued erosion in per capita
consumption throughout the medium term. This is regrettable in itself and
increases the political risks of the adjustment process.   To attain the



-7-
higher  growth  scenario,  the  required  concessional  import  financing,
additional to the external inflows that currently may reasonably be
expected to become available, would amount to about US$50-60 million per
year in 1988-90.  To achieve this, a combination of accelerated disburse-
ments on existing commitments, increased levels of aid commitments and/or
increasingly concessional debt relief wnuld be required.   In view of the
high debt burden, Madagascar will conLinue to be in balance of payments
difficulties for the medium term; indeed, the scenario set out in Annex I
still projects debt service ratios, after debt relief, of 55 percent to 60
percent in 1987 to 1990. This reinforces the point made about the need for
more concessional rescheduling terms.
1.22      Both the 3 and  3.5 percent growth scenarios  assume  that the
adjustment process will continue and that reforms in key areas. including
those outlined in this report, will accelerate.  Timely implementation of
the adjustment program described in Part III of this report, which is
composed of a number of closely interrelated and mutually reinforcing
policy reforms, together with the level of external resource availability
described in the previous paragraph, would make a significant contribution
towards generating the initial supply response and providing the momentum
needed for sustained positive per capita GDP growth. A fuller presentation
of the expected economic and social impact of the proposed adjustment
program can be found in paras. 4.12 to 4.21.   Briefly, this scenario is
based on: strong incentives for the productive sectors, particularly with
regard to the efficient use of foreign exchange, which would now be
realistically priced; greater reliance on market signals, coupled with
improved elriciency in the use of public sector resources; and a higher
level of private sector investmen;--as price controls are dismantled, the
role of the public sector is redefined, the financial system begins to be
more responsive, and the business environment improves (paras. 3.13 to
3.34).   The three percent growth scenario, though, is far from the worst
that could occur. In the absence of continued policy reform, the without
adjustment scenario shown in Table 1, with GDP growth of only one percent,
would prevail.
TABLE 1: MADAGASCAR: MEDIUM-TERM SCENARIOS (1988-90)
(Average Annual Percent Growth Rates)
Without    Adjustment Scenario  Accelerated Adjust-
Adjustment      With 3 Percent      ment Scenario With
Scenario        Growth Rate        Increased Financing
Population              3.0                 3.0                    3.0
GDP                     1.0                 3.0                    3.4
Consumption             1.6                 2.6                    3.2
Investment             -1.7                 4.3                    4.3
Exports                 2.5                 7.8                    7.8
Imports                -4.4                 2.5                    4.7
Per Capita
GDP                    -2.0                 0.0                    0.4
Private Consumption   -1.6                 -0.2                    0.2



-8-
1.23      The higher growth (3.5 percent) scenario also shows an accelera-
tion of GDP growth beyond 1990, assuming an intensification and broadening
of the adjusitment process and increased levels of external assistance.
This would imply that GDP could grow by about four percent and private
consumption per capita by about one percent per year in the first half of
the 1990s.   Areas in which the Government would need to accelerate its
reform efforts in parallel and beyond the program supported by the
operation recommended in this report include:   continued deregulation of
the domestic economy, permitting the transmission of relative price
changes; further improvements in the banking system's ability to mediate
efficiently between savers and investors; restructuring of the parastatal
sector; infrastructure improvements; and, over the longer term, dealing
with the issues of a high population growth rate and a sharp downturn in
the state of basic education and health of the population.
1.24      Projections of sustained higher GDP growth are based on:   (i)
strong performance in agriculture (about four percent annual growth),
provided recent improvements in incentives are maintained and strengthened,
efforts to raise yields are redoubled and the liberalization of production
and marketing is consolidated; (ii) rapid growth in manufacturing (about
eight percent annually), first from improved availability and more
efficient allocation of imports for selective reactivation  of existing
capacity and, later on from new investments as incentives for efficient
import substitution and exports  and other improvements  in  the overall
climate  for the private  sector  lead  to a shift in  the structure  of
industrial production; and (iii) growth in the mining and service sectors
at rates somewhat higher than the GDP growth rate, reflecting increasing
opportunities for the private sector in these areas, liberalization of
internal and external trade, and substantial rehabilitation investments in
the transport sector.  On the external side, annual export growth of ten
percent in real terms, beginning in 1990, should be made possible by the
recovery of traditional exports from their presently depressed level to
their historical highs, while nontraditional exports respond to their new
incentive structure. Import growth will be contained at five percent per
year in real terms, sufficient to support the projected GDP growth.
1.25      To summarize, the economic benefits implied by the accelerated
adjustment scenario presented in the previous paragraphs would only
materialize  if  several  developments  occur  simultaneously:          first,
Madagascar must sustain and intensify the economic reform program that
would permit the impact of adjustment to work its way through the economy,
utilize efficiently the currently available external resources, and
facilitate the required reallocation of domestic resources; second, the
international financial community must support the adjustment with
increased flows of external -resources; third, in the context of a new
approach to Africa's debt problem, ways must be found to lighten
Madagascar's heavy external debt burden; and fourth, to achieve all of the
above, the close cooperation within the international financial community
and with Madagascar must be strengthened.



- 9 -
PART II - INDUSTRY, TRADE AND THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Industry and Trade
2.01      In 1960, Madagascar's  manufacturing sector accounted for about
4 percent of GDP; by 1970, it tripled its share to about 13 percent. From
1970 to 1979 manufacturing value added grew at a rate of about 2.5 percent
per annum, falling thereafter by a total of about 35 percent, a drop far
greater than any other sector. As a result, the sector's contribution to
GDP decreased to an estimated ten percent by 1986.   Textiles and food
processing account for about 50 percent of manufacturing value added. When
beverages, cigarettes, garments, and leather goods are also included, their
share increases to close to 70 percent. Other important subsectors include
household chemicals, construction materials, petroleum refining and some
intermediate goods such as metal and paper products.
2.02      Manufacturing  growth  proceeded  along  the  path  of  import
substitution.   Under a high level of protection from foreign competit'on,
the domestic manufacturing sector quickly became the supplier of many final
consumer  goods.    After  1979, however,  the deteriorating macroeconomic
situation and the emergence of a severe foreign exchange constraint
brought to the surface the structural inefficiencies of the sector (many
of them caused by the industrial policies described in paras. 2.06 through
2.08) and showed that development along the lines of the recent past was
unsustainable.   As a result of acute shortages of imported inputs and
spare parts and a sharp decline in the supply of domestic agricultural
inputs, a large number of enterprises were forced to slow down or even stop
production.
2.03      Because of the emphasis on the production of consumer goods, the
manufacturing sector is still characterized by a low level of integration.
Interindustry linkages are weak as there is little production of inter-
mediate goods.   Reflecting weak domestic integration, many manufacturing
enterprises  are dependent upon imported inputs.    In  1986,  imports  of
intermediate goods (excluding petroleum) and spare parts amounted to
US$158 million or 36 percent of total cif imports.   On the other hand,
manufactures accounted for only about six percent of export revenues.
Apart from a few export-oriented activities based on the processing of
agricultural and mineral products, only the textile and fisheries
industries exported more than ten percent of their output.  In addition
to exports of surplus petroleum products from the refinery, major goods
exported by the manufacturing sector are:   sugar and molasses, cotton
fabrics, essential oils, canned meat and garments.
2.04      Industry in Madagascar is highly protected  through  the trade
regime.  Up to 1976, protection was granted mainly through custem duties
and import taxes.   While duties are generally low and uniform with only
four rates (0, 5, 10, and 15 percent), import taxes are relatively high and
vary over a wide range of up to 150 percent. In many instances, finished
industrial products have the same or even lower duty rates than raw
materials and/or intermediate goods used in  their production.   Import
taxes, however, are generally low on raw materials, higher oan intermediate
goods and in the upper range for most finished products. Average tariff



- 10 -
protection (including all taxes and duties) is estimated at 112 percent
for consumer goods, 37 percent for intermediate goods and 34 percent for
capital goods.   More  recently,  the level of protection has increased
further as imports have been subject to increasingly tight quantitative
restrictions because of the increasing foreign exchange shortages.
Currently, all goods are subject to import restrictions and are classified
into three categories:   (i) those whose importation is prohibited, (ii)
those which can be imported only in limited quantities approved by sectoral
ministries, and (iii) those which can be imported but only under an annual
licencing program administered by the Ministry of Commerce.  Nonetheless,
in recent years, import licences approved have even exceeded foreign
exchange available.   Little foreign exchange has been made available for
finished goods, while the administrative allocation system for industrial
inputs has generally aimed at keeping most enterprises alive, without
regard to efficiency.
2.05         There are some 400 manufacturing enterprises in Madagascar,
more than half located in Antananarivo, the capital city, employing about
100,000 people or just over two percent of the economically active
population.  The largest firms are in the food and beverage, the textile
and  the  clothing  and  footwear  industries.    Many  industrial  firms,
particularly the large ones, were owned by foreign private interests at the
time of their establishment, in the sixties.   Throughout the seventies,
however, the Government pursued a policy of nationalization. By the late
1970s, as a result of nationalization of existing enterprises, as well as a
large public investment effort in subsectors where the private sector had
not ventured, a large part of industry came under Government control. At
present, some 50 industrial enterprises are entirely state-owned while the
Government has a majority interest in another 20 firms. As these include
most large-scale operations, enterprises in which the Government has an
interest of more than 50 percent account for an estimated 65 percent of
sectoral output and a similar share of employment.
B. Past Policy Environment
2.06      The main objective  of industrial  policy  in Madagascar  after
independence was to diversify the structure of national production through
the encouragement of industry. This objective was based on the desire to
reduce the economy's vulnerability to adverse movements in agricultural
prices and on the perception that industry promoted faster economic growth
and increased employment opportunities.  Import substitution offered the
easiest road to rapid growth in manufacturing output and was achieved
through policies protecting domestic production from external competition.
Tariffs and import taxes were the early means of protection, but, by the
late 1970s, import prohibitions, strict import licencing practices and
foreign exchange rationing, dictated by the Government's attempt to
maintain an overvalued exchange rate, became the main sources of the high
level of effective protection to domestic industry (para. 3.20).
2.07      Following a military coup in 1972,  the Government adopted an
increasingly interventionist attitude towards the economy. This approach
was characterized by widespread nationalization of economic activity, the
strengthening and extension of central regulation and a oDrresponding
reduction in the role of market forces in allocating resources.   Thus,



- I1 -
price controls were generalized and enforced with greater vigor than
before, and exchange controls were tightened as the gap between the supply
and  demand  for  foreign  exchange  grew  larger.          Furthermore,  many
nationalized and most of the newly created public sector enterprises fell
into serious financial difficulties and have been able to survive only
because of credit from the three state banks (crowding out the private
sector) which now find themselves  in financial trouble as well.   This
policy environment has created an unfavorable climate, which discouraged
private sector investments in productive areas and exports, sent incorrect
signals that oriented the sector towards the internal market and excessive
use of imported inputs and permitted production inefficiencies to persist.
2.08      Import dependence and production inefficiencies have contributed
significantly to the sharp declines in industrial production noted above,
despite large capital investments in the late seventies (average industrial
investment ratio to GDP of 9 percent in 1979-81) mostly by the public
sector, frequently for uneconomic ventures, and a disproportionate use by
industry of scarce foreign exchange (about 25 percent of the total import
bill).   A strong indication of the extent of inefficiency in the sector
is provided by the finding that for 32 of 80 firms analyzed in 1985
(accounting for about 70 percent of industrial value added) the value of
tradeable inputs (excluding capital) exceeded the value of output produced
by the firm, both calculated at border prices. In other words, these firms
used up more foreign exchange than they either saved (by import
substitution) or generated (by exporting).
C. The Financial Sector
Structure
2.09      The Malagasy financial sector consists of the Central Bank, three
state commercial banks, a postal savings and checking system, two state
insurance companies and a national investment fund. There is also a Social
Security Fund (CNAPS) and a Commodity Price Stabilization Fund (FNUP).
In general, the sector is marked by its limited variety of institutions,
services and markets. The commercial banks enjoy a quasi monopoly in the
collection of savings and the provision of credit.  Securities markets are
nonexistent and the issue of nonmarketable Treasury bills to the general
public has not been successful.
2.10      The  Central  Bank  (BCRM)  was  established  in  1973  following
Madagascar's decision to withdraw from the franc zone.   BCRM took over
the management of Madagascar's foreign assets as well as the formulation
and implementation of monetary and credit policies.   In particular, BCRM
determines ceilings on credit extended by the three commercial banks,
authorizes loans in excess of specified amounts and allocates rediscount
quotas. BCRM is also responsible for supervising commercial banks and for
determining various maximum or minimum ratios between their assets and
liabilities.
2.11      BCRM s  bank  supervision  performance  has  been  less  than
satisfactory.   The last inspection of a bank took place in  1983.   It
was only in 1985 that BCRM, with the help of an outside auditor, set up



- 12 -
criteria to be used in classifying bank borrowers according to the degree
of risk. No attempt has been made to review the classification of claims
and of borrowers by commercial banks.   In addition, no rules have been
prepared for the treatment of consortium credits, write-offs and accrual of
interest due on doubtful loans.  In the light of growing difficulties in
the financial system, BCRM is becomiLg more willing to play an active role
in  supervising  the  commercial  banks.    In June  1987,  it  accepted  the
services of an expert from abroad to provide the necessary expertise
(para. 3.33).
2.12      In  1975,  the  then  existing  four  private  commercial  banks
(largely foreign owned or affiliated to foreign financial institutions)
were  nationalized.    In  1977, the banks,  together with  the then State
Development Bank, were reorganized into three fully Government-owned
commercial banks, each of which was in principle responsi';1e for a specific
sector of the economy: BNI for industry, BTM for agriculture and BFV for
commerce.   In practice, the specialization was never enforced rigidly and
has been somewhat limited by difficulties in determining the exact
boundaries of each sector, differences in the geographical distribution of
branches (BTM has branches in a number of localities where the other banks
are not represented) and the pooling of resources through consortium
credits.    Toans  by  BTM and  BFV  to  their  specialized  sectors  (i.e.,
agriculture and commerce) represent only about one third of their total
portfolio.   bNI directs a major portion of  its resources  (80 percent)
towards industry, mining, construction and transportation but nevertheless
accounts for only 50 percent of the total loans to the industrial sector.
2.13      Until  recently,  the  three  banks  were  governed  by  a  Joint
Management Board.   As departing members were never replaced, membership
in the Board declined from 12 to 2-the Minister of Finance (ex-officio
chairman) and the Executive Director of the Banks. In practice the Board
rarely met and the Executive Director alone approved loans exceeding the
specified  ceilings.    In November  1986, a  new  and separate  board was
appointed for each bank, consisting of the Minister of Fiuance as Chairman
and representatives of the Government and the public and private sectors.
The private sector is represented by 2 members out of 12.  It is too early
to assess the impact of the reform on the independence of the banks and the
competition among them.
2.14      The  Professional  Bankers'  Association  (APB)  represents  the
interests of the banking sector and advises the Minister of Finance, to
whom it reports.  The APB began operations in June 1985.  Its first major
task has been to begin work, on behalf of both Government and the banks,
on a case by case review of nonperforming parastatal debt. This review is
expected to contribute to action programs for financial rehabilitation and
debt recovery.  The Postal Checking System (CCP) and the Postal Savings
System (CNE) provide windows in all Post Offices which make checking and
passbook savings accounts accessible to depositors in most parts of the
country.   The two insurance cormanies are also controlled by the state,
which is their major shareholder.   Their portfolio consists mainly of
equity, Treasury bonds, time deposits, bonds issued by banks, loans to the
Government and loans to policyholders.



- 13 -
2.15      The National Investment Fund (FNI) was originally intended to
utilize, for productive investments, the long-term resources of state-
controlled institutional investors, such as the Social Security Fund
(CNAPS),  the  Commodity  Price  Stabilization  Fund  (FNUP)  and  the  two
insurance  companies.   The sole  shareholder of FNI is  the Government.
The statutes of FNI restrict its beneficiaries to publicly controlled and
socialist cooperative units of production which are required to relinquish
their decision-making authority to the FNI in order to qualify for use of
its resources.  FNI is a participant in 20 projects which include some of
the  more  ill-advised  industrial  and  agro-industrial   public  sector
projects.   Since then, FNI has not made new commitments.   At the end of
1986, FNI's assets amounted to FMG 10 billion.
Performance
2.16      All three commercial banks are in a difficult situation and some
of then in a state of virtual bankruptcy as (i) a significant portion of
their short-term loans are nonperforming or frozen through successive
rollovers; (ii) their irrecoverable loans probably exceed their capital
and reserve funds; and (iii) their profitability, somewhat inflated through
the capitalization of interest due on doubtful and contentious loans, is
declining because of a change in deposit mix and an increase in idle
liquidities. At the end of 1985, the loan portfolio of the banking system
amounted to FMG 355.1 billion (US$475.0 million equivalent) of which FMG
109.9 billion were classified as doubtful or contentious loans (DCL) by the
banks themselves.
2.17      Provisions against  doubtful  loans  totalled FMG 43.-  billion,
leaving FMG 66.1 billion uncovered. These DCL figures, as reported by the
banks, are probably underestimated. Given the difficulties in collecting
secured loans that are in default, the reluctance of the banks to sue
debtors, and the legislative, administrative and social impediments in
disposing of collateral, the hopes of the banks to recover their secured
claims rapidly may be optimistic.  In the case of BTM, which is the only
bank currently being audited by an experienced international firm, the
audit shows that its DCLs may be underestimated by over FMG 25 billion,
about 20 percent of its portfolio. The nonperforming loans of the banking
system, which are not covered by existing provisions, may well represent
up to 50 percent of their total loan portfolio (net of provisions).
The capital and reserve funds of the banking system amounted to FMG 50.8
billion at the end of 1985. These funds are insufficient to cover doubtful
and contentious loans not already covered by existing provisions.   The
shortfall exceeds FMG 40 billion.
2.18      As of December 31, 1985, short-term loans of the banking system
represented 88.9 percent of the total portfolio, exceeding by 34.6 percent
(FMG 62.7 billion) the short-term liabilities of the system. This apparent
favorable liquidity position is misleading because the short-term nature of
many loans is questionable.  Rollovers are frequent and a large portion of
the short-term credits are extended in the form of overdrafts, which makes
it difficult to identify nonperforming loans.  At least one third of the
short-term loans (FMG 90 billion) went to enterprises whose turnover was
a fraction of the amount of their short-term debts to the banks.  It is
difficult to see how those enterprises will be able to generate adequate
cash flows to reimburse their short-term debts,



- 14 -
2.19      In  1985,  bank  profits  before  provisions  represented  between
25 and 50 percent of capital and reserves.   These results, however, are
inflated by the underestimation of nonperforming loans and the accrual of
some interest due on doubtful and contentious loans.   Furthermore, the
profitability of the banks is now threatened by changes in the distribution
of deposits between sight and tine deposits, which tends to increase the
average cost of bank resources.  The cost of deposits, as a percentage of
the gross return on total assets, has increased in the last few years and a
further increase may be expected in 1987.  Tight credit ceilings prevent
banks from extending additional loans, and no short-term investment
opportunities are available to them.   The resulting increase in cash and
deposits with the Central Bank, from 5 percent of total deposits in
December 1985 to 20 percent in June 1986, poses the most serious threat to
the profitability of the banking system.
2.20      An appraisal of the portfolio situation of the banks will be
carried out by international auditors, in the context of the operation
proposed in this report. This, together with an assessment of the impact
of rehabilitating major public enterprises, would make possible the
preparation of plans for restructuring the banks' portfolios, also to be
supported by the' proposed operation.   This restructuring should put the
existing banks in a sounder financial position, a prerequisite for more
far-reaching financial sector reform.   Such subsequent reform would be
carried out at a later stage, and would be supported by a future adjustment
operation.   Improved supervision by the Central Bank, a feature of the
operation proposed in this report, should help prevent a recurrence of
present  problems.    Measures  to  strengthen  the  banking  system  more
permanently, including steps to foster the independence of the commercial
banks, increase oDmpetition, and increase and diversify their capital base,
with foreign participation in existing or new financial institutions, will
be studied in greater detail under the proposed operation (para. 3.34).
Interest Rates
2.21      From  1974 to  1985,  nominal interest  rates  remained constant
except for minor increases in 1982 and 1983.  In April 1985, the interest
rate structure was  simplified  and  liberalized in accordance with  IMF
recommendations.   The Central Bank sets the rediscount rate, which was
raised from 11.5 to 15 percent beginning January 1987, and the deposit rate
offered by commercial banks on 6- to 12-month deposits, which was also
raised from 12.5 to 16 percent in January 1987. The three commercial banks
have adjusted their interest rates according to the guidance of the
Professional Bankers' Association. Through the end of 1986, lending rates
on short-term credits under two years were 13.5 to 21 percent, depending on
the client and the type of credit.   For medium-term loans, the banks
charged interest of 16 to 17 percent a year, calculated on the basis of the
Central Bank rediscount rate plus a 5 to 6 percent spread. In 1985, these
lending rates were positive in real terms as inflation was less than 11
percent. In 1986, with the rise in inflation to an estimated 14.5 percent
per annum, some interest rates turned negative.   The recent 3.5 percent
increase in both the Central Bank discount rate and the six-month deposit
rate is pushilng the overall interest rate structure upwards, and interest
rates are now positive in real terns and are expected to remain so in the
medium term (para. 3.33).



- 15 -
PART III - THE GOVERNMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. The Adjustment Process
Macroeconomic Adjustment
3.01      The rapidly deteriorating economic situation in the early 1980s
prompted the Malagasy Government to reconsider its past policies and to
conclude that sustained recovery of the economy required policy reforms.
In 1981, with IMF support, the Government began implementing stabilization
measures aimed at containing aggregate demand. Madagascar's stabilization
efforts included tax measures, increases in tariffs charged by Piblic
enterprises, a reduction in consumer subsidies and a deceleration in money
supply growth. Fiscal restraint and prudent monetary policies resulted in
substantial reductions in the public sector and external current account
deficits and a slowdown of inflation.  The overall public sector deficit
was reduced from 18.4 percent of GDP in 1980 to 4 percent in 1986; the
external current account deficit was also brought down from 18.3 percent of
GDP in 1980 to 8.7 percent in 1986, while the inflation rate slowed down to
an estimated 10.5 percent per annum in 1985, compared to over 30 percent in
both 1981 and 1982.   Monetary growth, however, was much faster in 1986
(24 percent) than in 1985 (12 percent) and the inflation rate accelerated
from 11 percent to 14.5 percent.
3.02      In addition to demand management measures, the Government also
began to introduce a program of macroeconomic and sectoral reforms aimed at
establishing the framework for the resumption of economic growth. In April
1982, the Malagasy franc was pegged to a basket of currencies; it has been
devalued several times since then, resulting in a real adjustment in the
order of 15 percent by end-1986. In 1985, the structure of interest rates,
which turned positive in real terms on most deposits and loans in 1984, was
simplified and controls were limited to the Central Bank's discount rates
and the rate on individual deposits of 6-12 months. In parallel, with Bank
support, the Government has made substantial progress towards liberalizing
pricing and marketing arrangements in agriculture aimed at improving
production and export performance. Recognizing that the revitalization of
industry on an efficient basis would make an important contribution to
overall economic recovery, the Government has also moved to decontrol the
prices of all but ten manufactured goods; adopt a more rational public
investment program; introduce measures encouraging inaustrial exports;
reduce import restrictions; and adopt an investment code that encourages
private sector initiative.
3.03      These  measures  have  already  begun  to  yield  some  positive
results. Real GDP, which declined by almost ten percent in 1981 and by
a further two percent in 1982, increased by just under one percent in 1983
and by about two percent in both 1984 and 1985. Economic growth in 1985
was led by the industrial sector, which expanded by 4.5 percent as
enterprises began to rebound from capacity utilization rates estimated as
low as 20 percent to 30 percent, while agriculture, which accounts for over
40 percent of value added, grew by only 1.9 percent. Continued shortages
of imported essential inputs and drought conditions in several parts of the
country kept GDP growth in 1985 below the three percent target rate.  In



- 16 -
1986, because of lower than anticipated export earnings and difficulties in
disbursing aid funds, imports fell short of the programmed level. W±th the
slower expansion of imports, the 1986 GDP growth rate was only 0.8 percent
as compared tD 2.1 percent in 1985.  Thus, the rate of economic growth,
although positive beginning in 1983, has remained below the rate of
population increase, and in 1986 real GDP was still some seven percent
below its 1980 level.
Sectoral Adjustment
3.04      The  experience  of  1982  through  1986  demonstrates  that  for
stabilization to be accompanied by recovery and followed by sustainable
growth, a significant supply response from the economy needs to be
encouraged.  Output from existing productive capacity needs to increase,
while incentives to encourage efficient production for the domestic market
and for export need to be established.   The Government's strategy for
achieving these objectives in the industrial and agricultural sectors has
involved the launching of a program of policy reforms and the provision of
foreign exchange  for  the importation of inputs.   The main thrust  of
sectoral policy reforms to date was to liberalize domestic markets, reduce
administrative controls over prices, increase producer prices still under
control and provide incentives for the rehabilitation of efficient
activities.   Further policy reforms (paras. 3.13 to 3.34) are currently
being adopted in parallel to an intensified effort to increase the
country's capacity to import.
3.05      In  the  agricultural  sector,  the  Government's  objectives,
supported by an Agricultural Sector Adjustment operation which became
effective in November 1986 (an FY86 US$20 million IDA Credit, supplemented
by a US$33 million SFA Credit), are to increase the efficient production of
fooderops to reduce imports, revive the production of traditional export
crops and diversify exports.   The strategy to achieve these objectives
recognizes that small farmers are the main producers and that Government
policy  and  investments  DUSt  create  an  environment  that  stimulates
production by these key economic agents. To this end, prices and markets
were partly liberalized beginning in 1983. The minimum producer price of
paddy was progressively raised and, following the increase in competition
in the rice trade and the gradual elimination of the state marketing
monopoly in certain areas, actual prices paid to the producers in 1985/86
were, on average, between 75 percent and 100 percent higher than the floor
price.   At the same time, systematic efforts were made to improve the
programming and management of public sector investments.
3.06      In  1986,  the  remaining  controls  on  the  rice  trade  were
eliminated. Compared with an average of about 170,000 tons from 1978-81,
and a high of 356,000 tons in 1982, the volume of rice imports was reduced
to an annual average of 129,000 tons in 1984"86. For 1987, the estimated
volume  of  rice  imports  is  90,000  tons.    Producer  prices  of  other
agricultural crops, which had declined substantially in real terms between
1970 and 1983, were increased sharply but, generally, not sufficiently to
make up for earlier declines. Thus, the producer price of coffee, the main
export crop, was increased by an average of 29 percent per year between
1984 and 1986, a 50 percent increase in real terms copared to the 1983
level.  For the 1987-88 coffee year, a further 30 percent producer price



- 17 -
increase  has been  approved.   thile  the producer price  of vanilla was
increased by 43 percent in 1983, the sluggishness in the world markets for
vanilla and cloves, combined with the high level of stocks in Madagascar,
permitted only slight increases in nominal producer prices of both crops
since  1983.   Finally,  real producer prices  of pepper arn  cotton were
increased between 1983 and 1985, and for the 1986/87 crop season, the
minimum producer price for pepper was nbolished.
3.07      In the transport sector, the removal of bottlenecks through a
road rehabilitation program is an important part of the Government's
strategy.   A priority program of road rehabilitation of 10,000 kms. was
initiated,  supported  by a  road  fund and  generous  donor  finance.    In
addition, the Government deregulated the road transport industry through
the phasing out of regional transport monopolies and the liberalization
of tariffs in 1986.   Furthermore, the national airline and the railway
have also been rehabilitated, in an effort to strengthen regional and
international transport and the capital's link to the main port.
3.08      The first phase of the Government's adjustment efforts in the
industrial sector, supported by the first Industrial Sector Adjustent
Credit (ISAC I - an FY85 US$40 million IDA Credit supplemented by an FY86
US$20 million SFA Credit), aimed at increasing output from existing
efficient plants while at the same time beginning the process of
establishing an environment conducive to efficient import substitution and
export production. The Government strategy for achieving these objectives
involved the adoption of policy reforms and the provision of foreign
exchange for the importation of industrial inputs.  As was stated in the
President's Report for ISAC I (P-3862-MAG), that operation was 'a first
step in an effort aimed at eliminating distortions in the sector and the
economy and it is anticipated that further reforms wilI be achieved through
subsequent IDA Credits in the sector."   The Credits recommended in this
report are the first such follow-up operation.   Progress under ISAC I is
briefly reviewed in the following paragraphs.
3.09      The Government is adhering to the agreed-upon program of policy
reforms; the second tranche of ISAC I was released on September 25, 1986.
Ex-factory prices of goods representing 70 percent of manufacturing value
added were freed from control, leaving only 31 industrial products under
control. With support from the IMF, as of August 1986, the number of goods
under price control has been further reduced to ten (para. 3.23).   These
ten products account for about eight percent of manufacturing value added.
A Public Investment Program (PIP) in Industry, consisting only of projects
whose viability bas been established, was agreed for 1984, 1985, and 1986.
The average annual PIP in industry for those three years came to about
US$14 million, well below the unsustainable levels of about US$80 million
per year since 1979.
3.10      In the area of export promotion, the Government, with IMF and
Bank Group support, has been paying increasing attention to the exchange
rate.   During 1986, as a result of a step devaluation In August and a
continuation of the policy of quarterly adjustment based on domestic
inflation, the real effective exchange rate depreciated by about ten
percent. In addition, the Government licenced exporters to export a range
of goods rather than only specific items, and the requirement for



- 18-
Government clearance prior to each consignment has been droppped for all
exporters with a previous export record. Furthermore, export taxes on all
manufactured goods were eliminated and exporters were exonerated from all
indirect taxes on raw materials and spare parts used as inputs in export
production.
3.11      The Government also introduced an export promotion program which
guarantees to industrial exporters the foreign exchange necessary for the
imported inputs and spare parts for their export production, while
exporters who succeed in exporting more than half their output are
guaranteed their entire foreign exchange needs. In moving towards opening
up the economy and promoting greater efficiency, the Government also
removed prohibitions on the importation of basic necessities representing
about 20 percent of the number of goods whose importation was prohibited.
Finally, Madagascar has enacted a new investment code that is favorable to
private sector initiative and, in conjunction with a sustained reduction of
Government controls, should Improve the business environment.
3.12      The removal of price controls on the vast majority of industrial
goods, the abolition of export taxes, the simplification of export
procedures and the adoption of a more private sector oriented investment
code have enhanced the business community's confidence in the Government's
commitment to liberalize the economy. There has also been some increase in
capacity utilization of existing plants but a significant increase in
output is constrained by continuing erosion of domestic demand and lack of
export competitiveness.   Although an effort has been made to reduce the
foreign exchange allocation to the absolutely inefficient firms (i.e.,
those with negative value dded at border prices) there has been no
significant reallocation of resources towards the more efficient firms. As
discussed below,, such a reallocation requires significant reform in the
trade and exchange rate regime.
B. Towards Accelerated Adjustment
3.13      Following  a  significant  effort  in  the  areas  of  economic
stabilization and some initial policy improvements at the sectoral level,
the Government of Madagascar has given considerable attention to the need
to move rapidly towards the overall liberalization of the economy, to
enable it to increase its efficiency, productivity and export orientation.
The Government, with Bank and IMF assistance, has developed a packag3 of
policy reforms which would help translate the analytical work done so
far  and  the  growing  realization  of  the  need  for  reform  into
concrete action.  The cornerstone of this policy package is a major trade
liberalization supported by exchange rate adjustment and reform of the
exchange rate regime.   The strengthening of a market-oriented system of
allocating foreign exchange would be accompanied by the removal of import
prohibitions, rationalization of the import tariff structure and further
price decontrol.  A liberalized import regime, together with an exchange
rate level that reflects the supply and demand for foreign exchange and a
domestic price system free from Government controls would ensure that the
more efficient enterprises would be able to expand their production levels
and would force the less efficient firms to improve or suspend their
operations. The proposed package would also include measures in the areas
of public investment programs, public sector enterprises and the banking



- 19 -
system. Reforms in these areas are important for continuing the process of
achieving increased discipline in public sector investments and management,
while encouraging private sector initiative and improving the business
environment. Major aspects of the Government's new policies are summarized
below.
Exchange Rate Regime
3.14      Until April 1982, the Malagasy franc was pegged to the French
franc.    Domestic  inflation  rates  substantially  exceeded  those  of
Madagascar's major trading partners since about 1979 due to expansionary
fiscal  and  monetary  policies,  while  the  debt  service  ratio  rose
dramatically (from 4 percent in 1978 to 72 percent in 1982) and the terms
of trade deteriorated sharply (by 24 percent between 1978 and 1982).
This process led to an overvaluation of the currency which requirea the
establishment of strict exchange controls, quantitative barriers to imports
and administrative allocation of foreign exchange.   In April  1982, the
Malagasy franc was pegged to a basket of currencies and it has since been
devalued several times, resulting in a real depreciation of the order of
15 percent by end-1986. The devaluation process has accelerated since the
middle of 1986.  Effective August 11, 1986 the Malagasy franc was devalued
by 20 percent in foreign currency terms against the basket of currencies to
which it is pegged. It was also agreed with the IMF that the exchange rate
will continue to be adjusted quarterly by an amount equal to the increase
in the consumer price index for low income households over the previous
quarter.   According to this policy,  the exchange  rate was adjusted  by
5.2 percent in December 1986. Finally, in February 1987 the Malagasy franc
was devalued by an additional 5.2 percent at the initiative of the
Government.   In spite of these devaluations, however, significant excess
demand for foreign exchange persisted, requiring the preparation of a
detailed import program agreed with the IMF on an annual basis. Available
foreign exchange continued to be allocated through a cumbersome and
inefficient administrative system; and prohibitions and strict licencing of
all imports were still in place.  In early 1987, the parallel market rate
was about 50 percent higher (in foreign currency terms) than the official
rate, suggesting that the degree of overvaluation remained substantial.
The Government, therefore, concluded that further real devaluation was
required, particularly in view of the introduction of a process of gradual
trade liberalization.
3.15      The  exchange  rate  issue  has  been  the  subject  of  extensive
Government/IMF/Bank discussions, focusing on the achievement of a market-
clearing exchange rate for the trade account in the course of 1988 and on
the necessary intermediate actions.   Bv mid-1988 the exchange  rate  is
expected to reach a level appropriate to support an Open General Licence
(OGL) system for all imports. Under this system, all requests for imports
will be satisfied in full at the official exchange rate; if the demand for
foreign exchange exceeds the supply at the prevailing official exchange
rate, the Central Bank will protect its reserve position by adjusting the
level of the exchange rate in accordance with a specific balance of
payments/reserve  test  to  be  agreed with  the  IMF.   All quantitative
restrictions on imports and import prohibitions for protective and balance
of payments purposes will be eliminated and replaced by a revised tariff
structure (para. 3.21); current regulations for capital transactions will



- 20 -
remain in force.   To support the import liLberalization discussed below
(paras. 3.16 to 3.19) and to facilitate the transition to the OGL system,
significant exchange rate depreciation will be needed in 1987.   In the
context of the second tranche release of the operation proposed in this
report (expected in January 1988), the exchange rate situation will be
further reviewed jointly with IMF staff who would then be carrying out the
last review of the current standby arrangement and, it is expected, be
negotIating a new one. The overvaluation discussed above and the deepening
of imlport liberalization may well require additional depreciation during
1988 before  the introduction  of  the OGL system.    The  Government has
accepted the principle of further devaluat'ons, if they prove necessary,
to complete the transition to an OGL in June 1988. The effective price of
foreign exchange, resulting from the liberalized import regime, would
provide an important indicator for this exchange rate action.
Foreign Exchange Allocation and Import Liberalization
3.16      The  sixth  IMF  standby  arrangement  includes,  in  addition  to
substantial step devaluations, a significant advance towards a market-
oriented system of allocating  foreign' exchange.   Thus,  the Government
agreed to allow, effective January 2, 1987, the importation of raw
materials, spare parts and consumer goods, using the Central Bank's free
foreign exchange resources (but excluding those financed from bilateral
and multilateral sources) through a "liberalized import regime" (LIR).
This means that the discretionary element in granting foreign exchange
authorizations was eliminated for about 25 percent of the total import
bill (SDR 84 million annually). All economic agents are eligible to submit
monthly requests for foreign exchange and they have to pay a fee on the
amount of the licence requested.  This fee is currently ten percent and
could  be  periodically  adjusted.   As the  requests  exceed  the  foreign
exchange available, the foreign exchange authorization for each applicant
is reduced proportionately (and nondiscriminately) by a factor equal to the
relationship  between  the  total  amount   requested  and  the  overall
availability of foreign exchange.   As the licence fee paid by importers
on the total amount of foreign exchange requested is nonrefundable, the
effective cost of foreign exchange actually received is higher than the
nominal fee.   The effective fee for consumer goods was 20 percent in
January, 38 percent in February, 26 percent in March and 30 percent in
April.   For spare parts and raw materials, the corresponding effective
import licence fees were 16, 23, 31 and 40 perceu.t, respectively. In order
to encourage exports of nontraditional goods, there is a special regime for
enterprises exporting minerals and manufactured goods. Such exporters who
manage to export more than 50 percent of their turnover are authorized to
import all their material and spare part requirements. This special regime
was allotted a maxduum of SDR. 25 million in 1987.
3.17      The centerpiece of the structural adjustment program supported
by the proposed operation would be a major liberalization in Madagascar's
import regime and the associated exchange rate adjustments. Building upon
the initial steps agreed with the IMF, the Government hac decided to
broaden and strengthen the LIR by expanding the nondiscretionary import
window from the estimated 25 percent of the total import bill, to a auch
higher percentage.  This would be done by including all spare parts, raw
materials and consumer goods except rice, flour and edible oils (48 percent



- 21 -
of total imports in !986) and equipment goods (except where prohibited
under aid agreements), raising the percentage of total imports potentially
covered by the liberalized scheme up to about 75 percent (the rest is made
up by jil, 13.5 percent, and food, 12 percent).  For the total amount of
impor.s included in the liberalized import regime, no breakdown of import
cat'.egories would be established  in the  country's  Import program.   The
expanded liberalized import regime would be funded by the Government's own
foreign exchange, by the proceeds of new Bank Group Adjustment Credits,
a part  of  the proceeds  of  the ongoing  Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit and, with the agreement of other donors, by other quick-disbursing
foreign lending.
3.18      In  addition  to  broadening  the  liberalized  import  regime,  a
mechanism would be introduced to move the effective cost of foreign
exchange for those imporcs not covered by the LIR (i.e., the food items
listed in para. 3.17, oil and imports funded by foreign lending not yet
incorporated in the LIR) closer to its scarcity value and to increase the
profitability of exports.  Thia would be achieved by applying the nominal
licence fee paid by importers in the LIR to all imports irrespective of the
source of financing, and by adjusting the exchange rate in response to
manifested excess demand for foreign exchange.   As long as the exchange
rate does not reach a market-determined level, all exporters would continue
to be effectively taxed because of the lover (than in a market-determined
rate situatior.) receipts in local currency. Additional devaluations would
constitute significant eteps towards reestablishing the profitability of
exports.    A  further  measure has  been  agreed with  the  Government  to
compensate exporters for the additional cost of imports resulting from the
liberalized import regime and the overvalued exchange rate until the OGL
system is in place.   Beginning in January 1988, whenever the effective
import licenze Fee in the LIR exceeds 25 percent for two consecutive
months, the official exchange rate would be adjusted by the difference
between the nominal fee and the average effective fee for those two months.
3.19      The level  of the effective import  licence fee is a suitable
indicator of the need fcr official exchange rate action.  Applicants would
increase their requests a,d therefore pay a higher effective price as long
as the foreign e change obtained tbrough this system is cheaper than the
opportunity cost of foreign exchange. as reflected in the parallel market.
Thus, the actual price paid for each unit of foreign exchange under the
LIR would be moving in the direction of the one that would prevail under
an exchange rate float or a direct atcction.   To allow this process to
operate smoothly, the requirement of obtaining an import licence from the
Ministry of Commerce was discontinued and has been replaced by a system of
granting licences automatically (within 48 hours) to all participants
in the liberalized import regime.  Aurthermure, in June 1987, the list of
goods not subject to import prohibitions or quantitative controls was
extended  to cover  62.2  percent  of  the  customs  nomenclature  (from its
previous levTel of 43.7 percent).  Before the release of the second tranche
(expected  in January  1988), this percentage would rise to 80 and,  if
rnecessary, the level of tariff protection extended to goods so liberalized
would be adjusted within the limits of the tariff reform described in the
next paragrarnh. At the same time, goods representing another 18 percent of



- 22 -
the nomenclature would either be liberalized or, if, after review by the
ministries currently responsible for administering the prohibitions, it can
be demonstrated to the Bank's satisfaction that their liberalization would
represent a threat to the environment or public health, they would be
maintained on the list of prohibited goods.   Finally, the importation of
38 products (about two percent of the nomenclature), mostly goods that
could present a threat to security or the environment and precious stones
and metals, would continue to be prohibited. Not later than June 30, 1988,
the LIR would be replaced by an OGL system for all imports, and the
exchange rate level would be adjusted, if necessary, to allow for the
operation of the OGL without losses of foreign exchange reserves.
Introduction of the OGL system would be a condition of release of the
third tranche of the propused Credits, expected in July 1988.
Tariff Regime
3.20      Since 1979, the major limitation to imports has been the shortage
of foreign exchange and the accompanying strict exchange controls, import
prohibitions and quotas (i.e., on rice) and administrative allocation of
foreign  exchange.    All  imports  are  subject  to  either  quantitative
restrictions (in the sense that the current system of foreign exchange
allocation authorizes foreign exchange for specific quantities) or
prohibitions.   Thern  are also import tariffs and taxes, which together
range between 0 pe:cent and 150 percent and are generally low for raw
materials, higher for intermediate goods and still higher for finished
products.  Although this tariff structure has not had a major protective
impact in the past due to the strict nontariff barriers, it will become the
major instrument of industrial protection as the exchange rate approaches
its market level and nontariff barriers are abolished.   A study financed
under ISAC I shows that under the present structure, tariffs would provide
a high and fairly dispersed pattern of effective protection.  The average
effective protection, granted by tariffs, for 68 representative products
is about 160 percent while the specific rates vary between -5 percent and
almost +1000 percent.   Among subsectors, effective procection is highest
for textiles, followed by construction materials, food and beverages, and
chemical  and  metal  products.    This  structure  of  protection  reduces
competition,   provides  a  powerful  incentive  for  inefficient  import
substitution industries  and  directs  resources  to industrial activities
which may not correspond to Madagascar's comparative advantages.
3.21      To correct the distortions created by the present structure of
tariff protection, and in conjunction with the introduction of the
liberalized import regime and the gradual removal of all import prohibi-
tions for protective purposes, the Government has adopted a program of
tariff rationalization. This program aims at evening effective protection
through the narrowing of the dispersion of nominal tariffs.   The program
includes a timetable for moving towards a more uniform tariff structure;
minimum and maximum tariffs; fewer tariff categories; and a simplification
of the customs code. Sales taxes would be trade neutral, i.e., they would
apply equally to goods in the same category, whether imported or of
domestic origin.   A tariff working group has been established to prepare
the tariff reform.   Before release of the second tranche of the Credits
proposed in this report, the number of tariff categories would be reduced



- 23 -
from 69 to 16, specific taxes would be replaced by ad valorem tariffs,
minimum and maximum tariffs of 10 percent and 80 percent respectively would
be introduced and exemptions would be kept to a minimum.  Specifically, a
minimum tariff of 5 percent would apply to a small number of basic
necessities while a surtax, not exceeding 30 percent, would apply to a
limited number of goods which are currently prohibited.   The surcharge
would be progressively reduced and would be eliminated at the end of 1991,
at the latest. Before release of the third tranche, a four-year program of
tariff reform would be agreed with the Bank to reduce average tariff
protection from its current level of 46 percent to 35 percent and the
dispersion around the average from its current level of 45 percent to 15
percent. The elements of a monitoring system for these reforms were agreed
upon.
3.22      The  introduction  of  a minimum tariff  and the replacement  of
prohibitions by tariffs will more than offset revenues foregone by lowering
maximum tariffs.   At the current exchange  rate, import  tariff  receipts
are expected to increase by five percent in 1988. Import tariffs and taxes
currently contribute about 25 percent of total Government revenues.  Thus,
the proposed tariff structure will reduce the level and range of effective
protection and will also have a positive impact on fiscal receipts. In the
cases where it is considered desirable to limit the consumption of luxury
goods (particularly during the early stages of the import liberalization
process), excise taxes may be applied-equally to imported and domestically
produced goods, so as not to provide incentives for the inefficient
domestic production  of these luxuries.   Similarly,  in cases where  the
import of certain products into Madagascar is the result of unfair trade
practices, such as "dumping", a temporary import surcharge may be imposed,
after consultation and agreement with the Bank.
Price Decontrol
3.23      In the late 1970s, in an attempt to control the pricing behavior
of protected local industry and, more recently, to protect consumers from
the impact of increasing scarcities, the use of Government price controls
was intensified and generalized to apply to all industrial goods.   This
policy aggravated shortages and distortions and inflicted financial
hardship on enterprises.   In 1982,  the Government  took  the first step
towards relaxing price controls by reducing the delays in responding to
price increase  requests.   In  1985 and  early  1986,  under  ISAC  I,  the
ex-factory prices of all manufactured goods, except 31, were decontrolled.
As of August 1986, the number of goods under control was further reduced to
ten:  cement, flour, bread, edible oils, baby food, condensed milk, soap,
candles, notebooks,  and packing materials.   These products  account for
about eight percent  of manufacturing  value added.   The Government  has
continued to fix maximum profit margins between ex-factory and retail
prices for all industrial products.  The retention of fixed profit margins
could be a source of arbitrariness and harassment of manufacturers.   In
addition,   these  controls  create  skepticism  about  the  Government's
commitment to the policy of liberalization and have a negative impact on
the investment climate.



- 24 -
3.24      Under the proposed operation, all profit margin controls will
be eliminated. Profit margin controls on all but 16 goods were removed in
April 1987.   Controls  on eight of them will be removed by the second
tranche and on the remaining eight by the third tranche. Furthermore, as a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credits, controls on the prices
of five of the ten goods which are still under ex-factory price control
(soap, candles, edible oils, baby food and condensed milk) will be
eliminated. The price of cement will be reviewed in the context of the
rehabilitation plan for the cement factory which will be agreed upon before
the release of the second tranche.   Flour, bread, notebooks and packing
materials will rema,in under ex-factory price control.  In no case would an
efficient manufacturer be forced to price his output below the average cost
of production and, in the event of any subsidy, it will be fully covered by
the Treasury and not by commercial bank credit.  Staff in the Ministry of
Commerce who were previously, among other duties, engaged in enforcing
price controls will now concentrate on other tasks.
Public Investment Program (PIP)
3.25      Public  sector  industrial  investment  accelerated  in  the  late
seventies.   More than 70 percent of investment in manufacturing between
1979 and 1983 was undertaken by the public sector. Much of this investment
was in new activities (fertilizers, cement, pharmaceuticals) and was aimed
at broadening import substitution into areas where the private sector had
not ventured.   A significant part  of these investments was undertaken
without analysis and the financial and/or economic viability of many
investments is questionable.   Some of these projects have been reexamined
under ISAC I and two major ones (Zeren, a urea plant and Mamisoa, a
vegetable oil factory), although completed at a cost of over US$100
million, were found to be unable to cover their operating costs and have
not been allowed to operate.   Under ISAC I, annual agreement was reached
on modest and better focused industrial PIPs for 1984, 1985 and 1986.
3.26      Under  the  proposed  operation,  agreement  on  the  overall  PIP
(i.e., for industry and all other sectors) for 1987, 1988 and 1989 would
be reached. Agreement on the 1987 national PIP, including an agreement on
measures for dealing with several projects of doubtful economic merit, has
already been reached.   Agreement on the 1988 PIP will be reached before
release of the second tranche.   In addition, during  1987, a series of
actions at the national level will be undertaken to strengthen the
preparation, budgeting and follow-up of the PIP and to improve its
quality.  Shortcomings in the programming process. identified in reaching
the 1987 PIP agreement, are being addressed through technical assistance,
in cooperation with UNDP.   Several immediate measures that would improve
the preparation, control and supervision of public expenditures have
already been agreed with the Government.   It is expected that improved
programming and budgeting of both investments and expenditures on a
three-year rolling basis will be supported by subsequent Bank Group
adjustment and technical assistance operations.
Public Enterprises
3.27      Madagascar's  public  enterprise  sector  is  large  and  diverse,
following the takeover of numerous private firms by the state and an



- 25 -
ambitious public sector investment program. Today, the Government controls
majority shares (directly or through other state-owned enterprises) of
about 155 companies and is a minority shareholder in another 100 firms.
A large number of these public sector enterprises suffer from financial,
technical and managerial problems, putting a burden on both the banking
system  and Government finances.   The economic  downturn, shortages  of
inputs, large and inflexible wage bills, price controls and other
Government policies have been at least as important for the poor financial
position of public enterprises as public ownership itself. More than half
of the current portfolio of the three state banks is composed of credit to
these public enterprises, large portions of which are nonperforming.
The need to allocate additional credit to postpone the bankruptcy of these
enterprises has crowded out private clients.
3.28      The  Government  has  recognized  the  need  to  move  rapidly  to
rehabilitate  and,  where  appropriate,  to  privatize  or  liquidate  these
enterprises. Under IMF sponsorship, a pilot project was initiated in 1985,
yielding positive but uneven results.   Substantial progress was achieved
in rehabilitating Air Madagascar; some headway was made in bringing the
two sugar companies (SNBC and SIRAMA) under common management with private
sector participation; only limited progress was made in reducing the losses
of the water and power company (JIRAMA). Additional measures will be taken
for the latter under an IDA energy Credit, which has recently been approved
by the Executive Directors.  The sixth IMF standby arrangement stipulates
specific credit ceilings for public enterprises and requires that the
national budget rather than the three state banks finance the losses of
these firms. As part of the IMF standby arrangement, prediagnostic studies
of 16 selected public enterprises (accounting for about 40 percent of
the banking system's outstanding credit to public enterprises) were
completed  and  prediagnostic  studies  are  soon  to  begin  for  10  other
enterprises.    Based  on  the  already  completed  studies,  two  of  these
enterprises (TOLY, farm implements and SINTP, construction) have ceased
operations, pending sale to other enterprises, possibly with foreign
participation.
3.29      The specific rehabilitation proposals for the  16 enterprises,
selected under the sixth standby, have been reviewed with the Bank and
agreement has been reached on the implementation of rehabilitation plans.
Progress reports for the rehabilitation of 16 public enterprises would be
prepared on a regular basis. The first report would be available in March
1988. Another ten manufacturing enterprises in need of rehabilitation were
identified, based on the size of their losses, the drain on the banking
system and  their  importance  to the  economy.    Agreements  on  specific
rehabilitation plans will be reached for the additional ten enterprises,
as a condition of second tranche release.  The necessary studies of these
enterprises will be carried out with funding from a Project Preparation
Facility advance (para. 4.07).
3.30      The Government proposes  to establish a stronger framework for
public sector enterprise management and formulate an action program for
restructuring the public enterprise sector as a whole.   This framework
would integrate rehabilitation efforts already underway and would put
future  initiatives  in perspective.    The action  program would  include
closing down or selling nonviable enterprises and criteria for the



- 26 -
rehabilitation  and  possible  privatization  of  viable  enterprises.    The
formulation of a comprehensive action program would requi:e full-scale
economic and financial studies of industrial, agro-industrial and mining
parastatals that have not yet been adequately studied.  Terms of reference
for this study have been reviewed and agreed and the launching of the study
is a condition of effectiveness.  The study is expected to be completed by
September 1988 and a review of its findings will be carried out in the
framework of the supervision of the current operation. The action program
is expected to be supported by future IDA adjustment lending.
Banking Sector
3.31      Closely  related  to  the  poor  financial  state  of many  public
enterprises  are  the  serious  problems  of  the  country's  three  state
commercial  banks,  which were  nationalized  in  1975.   Government  inter-
ference, antiquated banking practices, inappropriate credit policies and
inadequate attention to troubled clients have contributed to the fact that
about 50 percent of the outstanding portfolio of the three banks is not
performing.   As existing portfolio audits for two of the three banks are
not adequate, a more precise estimate of the overall portfolio situation
will be available only after such audits have been completed. These audits
will be undertaken in the context of the operation proposed in this
report.   Government has  requested,  and IDA has agreed to provide,  PPF
financing for carrying out the bank audits (para. 4.07).
3.32      Until recently the receptiveness of the Government to proposals
for refora in the banling sector was limited.   Although a beginning is
being made under the sixth IMF standby, more significant reforms are
necessary both with respect to the three state commercial banks and the
financial system in general.   Under the proposed operation, a number of
reforms will be undertaken.   First,  there will be restructuring of the
portfolios of the three banks, based on portfolio audit results and
rehabilitation plans for major troubled clients.  This restructuring would
include write-offs, reduction of capital and reserve funds and, depending
on the seriousness of the portfolio situation as determined by the
portfolio audits, a swap of nonperforming loans against special Treasury
bonds.     The  portfolio  auditors  will  also  examine,  and  will  make
recommendations on, procedures and criteria used by banks in project
evaluation and supervision. The audits are expected to be completed before
the end of October 19B7. Agreement on a specific restructuring plan is a
condition of second tranche release and implementation of the plan is a
condition for the release of the proposed Credits' third tranche.
Beginning with the 1987 accounts, full audits will replace the existing
incomplete audits for the three banks.
3.33      Second, the proposed operation will support a strengthening of
the  Central  Bank  supervision.    Presently,  the  Central  Bank  is  not
adequately equipped to:  (a) define rules regarding write-offs, classifi-
cation of loans and debtors, and accounting practices for the treatment
of interest due on doubtful loans; (b) ensure that the bank audits are
prepared and their results presented in a homogeneous and comparable
fashion; and (c) decide in cases of disagreement between auditors and banks
over the classification of a loan or a debtor. To remedy this situation,
the services of an expert in bank supervision have been made available to



- 27 -
the  Central  Bank.    Before  the  release  of  the propoLed Credits'  third
tranche, a new system of Central Bank supervision of banks would be in
place.   The CDvernment has also undertaken the continuing obligation to
maintain positive interest rates in real terms (Statement of Industrial and
Trade Policy, Annex 4, para. 18).
3.34      Finally, a study would  be carried  out  to review  the current
performance and limitations faced by the financial sector and address the
following:  (a) the adequacy of existing financial institutions to respond
fully to the needs of the sector; (b) the prospects for, and preliminary
actions required, for allowing additional financial institutions to enter
the sector, or to introduce private capital--local and/or foreign--into the
existing three banks once the financial restructuring is completed; (c) the
legal framework in which the banks operat * including the possibility of
calling guarantees, foreclosing on companies, and selling of pledged
assets; (d) the adequacy of credit ceilings, rediscounting facilities and
credit supply, especially in rural areas; (e) the expansion of financial
services to include export financing, leasing, and housing finance;
(f) mobilization of savings, especially in rural areas; and (g) application
of the liberalized interest rate structure.   Terms of reference for this
study have already been agreed and the launching of the study is a
condition of effectiveness.   The study is expected  to be completed by
September  1988.   Its findings would help form the basis for subsequent
reforms.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDITS
A. Credit History
4.01      The Government requested the Bank Group to consider providing
Madagascar balance of payments support as early as 192l.  It was, however,
not until  the following year that it made  evident  its willingness  to
consider  implementing  a  program of  sectoral  reforms.    A new  team of
economic ministers with a mandate to negotiate far-reaching reforms and a
successful stabilization  program supported  by  the  IMF made possible  a
dialogue that led to two policy-based sector operations, one in industry
and another in agriculture.
4.02      Throughout  the  preparation  of  the  first  industrial  sector
operation, it was recognized that the adjustment process would involve
several phases and that it would need to be supported by further sector
operations and, at the appropriate time, by structural adjustment lending.
Studies were included in the first industrial sector operation to identify
major constraints to efficient industrial development, to analyze the
incentive structure for industry, with emphasis on the trade regime, and,
finally, to make recommendations for policy reforms.   These studies are
complete. A package of policy reform, partly based on the results of these
studies, was discussed with the Government during three supervision
missions of the first industrial adjustment operation, during a preparation
mission in July 1986, and during the 1986 Annual Meetings.



- 28 -
4.03      The  proposed  operation  was  appraised  by  an  IDA  mission  in
November 1986.   The appraisal mission overlapped and worked closely with
an IMF standby review mission.  A po_t-appraisal mission visited Madagascar
in February 1987 to continue discussions on the policy package supported by
the proposed operation; Bank and Fund staff worked closely together in the
field. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 16 to May 1, 1987.
The Malagasy delegation was headed by Mr. Jean Robiarivony, Director
General of Planning.   A Credit and Program summary is presented at the
beginning of this report and a Supplementary Data Sheet is provided in
Annex 3.
4.04      The preparation  of  the  proposed  operation  has  served  as  an
important vehicle for intensifying the dialogue among the Malagasy
Government, the Bank Group and the IMF, on a number of far-reaching policy
changes. These policy changes should help consolidate important gains in
stabilization and the first macroeconomic and sectoral reforms, and
contribute  to  the  resumption  of  sustainable  growth;  as  such,  they
constitute timely and critical steps in the adjustment process. They would
provide momentum to Madagascar's productive sectors towards becoming more
efficient, open and export-oriented so that they would be in a position to
make an increasingly significant contribution to the country's balance of
payments and to the growth of employment and output. The sequencing of the
reform program follows a pattern from successful stabilization, resulting
in a significant reduction in the domestic disequilibrium, to a liberaliza-
tion of the trade account, leaving for last the liberalization of financial
markets.   Experience suggests that this sequencing reduces  the risk of
reversal of the adjustment process.   Successful implementation of these
policies would make possible future sector and/or structural adjustment
operations focusing inter alia on further improvements in the incentive
framework and on public sector management.
B. Credit Objectives
4.05      The objectives  of  the  proposed  operation  are  to  assist  the
Malagasy Government in its strategy to reallocate resources to the more
productive sectors, to stimulate the revival of the efficient segments of
the economy and to restore them to the position of efficient contributors
to growth after years of contraction.   Through policy and institutional
reforms and through an increase in the supply of foreign exchange, the
proposed operation would bring about improvements in the productivity and
efficiency of existing industrial and other enterprises, and encourage the
development  of  bigh  priority,  export  oriented  and  efficient  import
substitution projects, thereby helping to improve the balance of payments
situation and to permit an expansion of imports.   At the same time, a
beginning will be made to rehabilitate important areas of the economy such
as public sector enterprises and the banking system, which are experiencing
serious difficulties partly as a result of past policies.  The availability
of quick-disbursing external  resources, in  conjunction  with  a market-
oriented system for allocating foreign exchange, would spearhead the
reactivation  of  the  economy  through  a selective  increase  in  capacity
utilization and would also help ease Madagascar's foreign exchange
constraint.    The  expansion  in  foreign exchange  availability,  and  its
redistribution to more productive activities, combined with other measures,
would  afford Madagascar  a  reasonable  chance  to aspire  to  sustainable



- 29 -
growth, allowing for improvement in per capita income and consumption after
more than a decade of continuous decline.  The proposed package of policy
measures would further reduce long-standing distoitions and would provide
potent incentives to spur sectoral efficiency and the reorientation of
manufacturing from its traditional inward-looking bent toward the export
market.
4.06      Increased availability of basic industrial goods fcr the domestic
market, produced by efficient import substitution industries, would provide
incentives to other sectors, notably agriculture, to raise their output.
The policies supported by the proposed operation would also stimulate local
production of intermediate goods and substitution of domestic for imported
raw materials, where feasible.   Together with the liberalization of the
interest rate structure (aciileved with IMF support ln April 1985),
the package would discourage the use of imported capital in favor of local
labor, thus helping alleviate Madagascar's unemployment problems.   Last,
the program does away with major distortions and uneconomic prices and
removes opportunities for arbitrary application of controls, and with the
consequent waste of resources in enforcing and evading control.
C. Program Description
4.07      The objectives outlined in the preceding section would be pursued
through a fast-disbursing US$100 million operation (US$16 million from
IDA and US$67 million from the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa and
US$17 million under Special Joint Financing from Saudi Arabia and Japan),
and a supporting package of policy reforms. The proposed Credits would be
made to the Government and would be released in three equal tranches; the
foreign exchange proceeds would be channelled to the final beneficiaries
through the Central Bank.   All economic agents  could benefit from the
proposed Credit.   As explained above (pars.  3.17), the proceeds of the
Credit would increase the total amount of foreign exchange available to the
import liberalization scheme initiated by the Central Bank with IMF
support, thereby supporting the movement towards a market-determined
exchange rate and foreign exchange allocation system. The main features of
the policy reforms which this operation supports were discussed in paras.
3.14 to 3.34, and they are summarized in the form of a matrix on pages 30
and 31. The first tranche of the proposed Credits would be made available
to the Government for draw-down upon effectiveness, the second should be
available irn January 1988 and the third tranche in July 1988.   A Project
Preparation Facility advance for US$600,000 has been approved by IDA to
finance the proposed commercial bank audits and the preparation of
rehabilitation plans for ten public sector enterprises. Another US$400,000
is earmarked for the financing of the preparation of an action program for
public enterprises (para. 3.30) and a study of the financial system
(para. 3.34).
D. Effects of the Adjustment Program
Prospects for the Economy without Adjustment
4.08      Real per capita income in Madagascar has been declining since
the 1970s and it is now over 30 percent below its 1973 level. Urban real
wages declined in every year since 1978 and have now fallen by a total of



- 30-
MADAGASCAR - INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTKENT PROGRAM
SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT REFORM PROGRAM
OBJECTIVES              STATUS AND RECENT ACTION                     ACTICN PROGRAM
I. Import Liberalization
Regain external        Devaluation by 20 percent in      - Enlarge and improve market-oriented
balance by             August 1986 and by 5.2               system of foreign exchange allocation
stimulating exports    percent in February 1987             for imports.#
and efficient          and continued depreciation        - Replace system of import licences with
import substitution    in accordance with domestic         a simple import registration system.
and increase           inflation. Malagasy franc            (Done)
economy's              remains overvalued and            - Abolish import prohibitions for
productivity           foreign exchange shortage            protective purposes and quantitative
through a more         persists.  Introduction of          restrictions.  (Started, to be
efficient use of       a liberalized import regime         completed by second tranche release)
foreign exchange.       (LIR) for about 25 percent of    - Significant devaluations, leading to
Imports.                            an O(L system for aU  imports in June
1988.**
II. Tariff Regime
Increase the           Import prohibitions and           - Establish interministerial working
outward                cumbersome licencing system;        group to impleent reform.  (Done)
orientation,           high and varied levels of         - Si-plify tariff system and reduce
competitiveness and    effective protection; under         tariff categories.*
efficiency of the      ISAC I import prohibitions        - Reduce maxidmm tariffs to 80 percent.*
industrial sector.     reduced by 20 percent.            - Introduce a 10 percent mtnrilm tariff.*
- Prepare a four-year program to reduce
average nominal protection to 35
percent and the dispersion around the
average to 15 percent.**
II]. Price Decontrol
Make the Malagasy      Government has decontrolled       - Remove oontrols on most retail prices
economy more           ex-factory prices of goods          and profit margins.  (Done)
responsive to          representing 85 percent of        - Decontrol the prices of 5 of the 10
market forces so       manufacturing value added;          goods which are still under ex-factory
as to increase its     however, retail prices and          price control.#
efficiency,            profit margins are still          - Remove controls on 8 of the 16 products
dynamism and           controlled.                         still under margin control.*
productivity.                                            - Complete the profit margin decontrol.**



- 31 -
OBJECrIVES              SrArUS AND RECENT ACTION                     ACTION PROGRAM
IV. Public Investment Program (PIP)
Rationalize the PIP    Under ISAC I:  Government/IDA    - Agree on 198? PIP at national level
process; improve       agreement on 1984, 1985 and          (i.e., not li_ited to industrial
quality of project      1986 industrial PIPs,               sector).  (Done)
appraisal.              reducing their size and          - Agree on measures to improve
improving the quality of            preparation, control and supervision
projects; strengthened              of public investments.  (Done)
project appraisal capability      - Agree on 1988 PIP at national level.*
at Ministry of Industry.         - Agree on 1989 PIP in the course of
Under ASAC:  1986                   reviewing implementation progress.
agricultural PIP agreement.
V. Public Enterprises (FE)
Rehabilitate,          Government has begun the          - Agree on the rehabilitation plans for
liquidate or           preparation of rehabilitation        16 enterprises.  (Done)
privatize PE and       plans for PE in difficulties.    - Award contract for the preparation of
establish a system                                          an action program for public sector
for monitoring                                              enterprises.#
their performance.                                       - Agree on the rehabilitation of another
10 enterprises.*
VI. Bank Reform
Restore sound          More than half of the              - Central Bank to utilize the services
portfolio structure    aggregate bank portfolio            of expert in bank supervision.  (Done)
of the three banks;    is nonperforming, after           - Award contract, for preparation of
improve credit         state-owned banks made              action program  to enhance competition,
decisions; expand      numerous bad loans. The             permit private sector participation in
range and quality      sixth IMF standby provides          the banking sector and improve
of financial           for separate boards for each        financial services.#
services.              of the three banks and for        - Agree on portfolio restructuring of
the Central Bank to formulate       three banks based on results of audits
a general and comprehensive         and specific rehabilitation plans for
statement of credit policy.         26 public sector enterprises.*
- Implement the restructuring plan for
the banks.**
- Agree on appropriate systeis to inprove
the efficiency of bank supervision by
the Central Bank.**
I Condition of effectiveness
* Condition of second tranche release
* Condition of third tranche release



- 32 -
60 percent; employment has stagnated while the labor force in urban areas
is growing fast. Imports in 1986 were about half their 1980 level and the
rate of economic growth, although now positive, is still below the rate of
population  increase.    Thus,  despite  stabilization  efforts  since  the
beginning of the decade, reducing internal and external disequilibria.
conditions for sustained growth have yet to be established.
4.09      Prospects for the immediate future are not bright.  The terms of
trade are probably as good now as they are likely to be over the next few
years. Quantities of vanilla and cloves exports and, under current price
and marketing arrangements, coffee exports as well, are not likely to
increase significantly, nor are there any reasons to believe that the
precipitous decline of nontraditional exports can be reversed under the
present relative price structure.  Future reschedulings, on current Paris
Club terms, will yield increasingly smaller amounts of relief. In view of
the current burden of external debt, new commercial borrowings are unwise
and,  in any  case,  probably  not  feasible.   Under the present pace of
adjustment, prospects for increased aid and concessional borrowing would
be minimal.   Possibilities  to attract large amounts  of direct foreign
investment are also limited. Net capital transfers will therefore continue
to decline and may soon become negative.
4.10      Under these conditions, projected imports would probably not be
sufficient to support even a modest increase in GDP growth.   With no
prospects for productivity growth, under the present structure of the
economy, incomes per capita would continue to decline, while available
resources would not be able to halt the downward trend in urban real
wages.   As limits on public expenditures and bank credit tighten,  the
employment situation would worsen because enterprises would no longer be
able to keep surplus labor.
4.11      Industry provides a good illustration of problems the Malagasy
economy faces and of what the future holds unless the adjustment process is
deepened significantly. Ex_trnal shocks, inadequate policies and very low
productivity of massive new investments, have resulted in:  (i) low and
declining  levels  of  industrial  production,  with  manufacturing  now
contributing an estimated 5 percent of GDP, at world prices, while more
than one third of national investment was channelled to industry In the
late seventies and early eighties; (ii) an inefficient and import dependent
manufacturing sector, which exports about US$25 million and uses at least
three times as much foreign exchange to operate at about 40 percent
capacity utilization; (iii) insufficient investment and incentives to other
sectors, notably agriculture and infrastructure, which, together with the
high import dependency of industry and declining availability of foreign
exchange, contributed significantly to the overall economic decline.
4.12      As noted in Part I, the prolonged decline in the economy through
1983 caused a substantial reduction in per capita real incomes and food
production.  While the majority of the population experienced a sharp drop
in its living standards over the period, the poorer groups, primarily the
rural population and the urban informal sector, were the least able to
protect their economic interests.   Living standards were further eroded
by the debilitation and misdirection of public sector infrastructure
investment, while massive ill-advised investments in the productive sectors



- 33 -
were taking place.   In the absence of further adjustment measures,  the
economic recovery experienced to date would falter, and the economy would
resume Its downward decline with *-vere adverse consequences for all the
citizens of Madagascar, particularly the poor.
Economic and Social Impact of AdJustment
4.13      As indicated earlier, a significant segment of the manufacturing
sector is producing with negative value added at international prices.
These wasteful activities are generally found in llnes of production rather
than entire  firms.   Their  continuing existence implies,  however,  that
efficient activities are denied scarce resources. According to the results
of the efficiency studies carried out under ISAC I, a reallocation of
recurrent resources from the absolutely inefficient lines of production to
efficient production lines would have increased-in the year of the study
(1983)--manufacturing value added by just under 30 percent, reduced the
trade deficit by 40 percent and increased GDP by 3 percent.   The policy
reforms supported by the proposed operation would reduce substantially the
protection to inefficient firms and would price imported inputs at their
economic value, thus encouraging the transfer of resources to economically
viable lines of production.   Gradual elimination of activities producing
negative value added and further reallocation of resources among activities
producing positive value added towards the mwre efficient ones can be
expected to have a significant impact on economic growth.
4.14      The adjustment program aims at supporting an annual growth of
3.4 percent in the 1988-90 period and providing the momentum for sustained
growth of about four percent for several years thereafter, originating in
an improved performance by all sectors, as explained in paras. 1.20 to
1.25.  This is to be achieved through measures to create an appropriate
incentives framework for the private sector, to improve the efficiency of
public investment and to increase the level of private sector investment.
Exchange and trade policy reforms, which lie at the heart of the adjustment
program, are designed to price foreign exchange realistically and thus to
remove the bias against exports and to encourage a more efficient use of
foreign exchange. The accompanying liberalization of trade and access to
foreign exchange and the dismantling of price controls will encourage
fuller capacity utilization both directly and through the shift in
incentives  from  trading  to  productive  activities.    Improved  producer
prices, particularly for coffee, will provide a strong stimulus to
continued agricultural recovery.
4.15      Although  the  benefits  from  a  more  efficient  allocation  of
resources will be substantial, attention needs to be paid to the short-term
social costs in terms of loss of employment, resulting from possible
closures of industrial finrs, and higher prices due to devaluation. Under
the restructuring that would make industry an efficient contributor to the
Malagasy economy, some very inefficient firms may have to close down.
According to the results of studies which analyzed the efficiency of
Malagasy industries, however, the problem lies more in inefficient lines
of production rather than totally inefficient firms.  Therefore, much of
the industrial restructuring can be expected to take place as a result of
streamlining of product lines within firms, the output expansion and
rehabilitation of viable enterprises and eventual emergence of new firms.



- 34 -
Labor dislocation resulting from closure of inefficient lines wouild
be alleviated by labor reallocatlon towards efficient and expanding product
lines, more productive firms and growing subsectors. Under the adjustmenn
program, in the short-run, incentives to engage in agriculture axed. in
small-scale operations or self-employment would help the employnent
siLuation while in the medium term a healthier industrial sector would
provide new jobs, and productivity gains would permit real wages to rise
again.
4.16      Concerns  that  trade  liberalization would  result  in excessive
imports of luxury consumer goods at the expense of basic necessities are
not well founded.   Similar  fears in other  countries where substantial
import  liberalization  was  introduced  have  not  materialized.           The
inflationary impact of devaluation on low income groups and the resulting
possible social costs can be shown to be modest. The import content of the
Consumer Price Index (CPI) for low income groups in Antananarivo,  the
capital city, is only about eight percent.  Available evidence for 1984 and
1985 suggests that a 28 percent depreciation of the FMG had a negligible
inflationary impact.  Specifically, in 1984 the rate of price increase for
locally produced goods (with no import content) was 9.7 percent while the
overall CPI, which includes both imported and domestically produced goods,
increased at the marginally higher rate of 9.9 percent.  Furthermore, in
1985 the overall increase in prices was no greater than the increase irn the
prices of domestically prodi"ced goods (both about 10.5 percent).
4.17      Food, together with nontradeables such as shelter, account for
about 70 percent of expenditure by the poor in Madagascar. In 1984, both
in Ghana and Zaire, there was a significant fall in food prices when the
exchange rate depreciated sharply.   The most important of the remaining
expenditures Rre transport, cooking fuel and clothing.   In Madagascar,
consumer prices of clothing are determined by the availability of cloth in
the domestic market rather than by the exchange rate or price controls.
Changes in the exchange rate and price controls do not have a significant
impact on prices but instead redistribute income from thorA  who obtain
goods at low controlled prices or at an overvalued exchange rate for sale
to the public, towards consumers and producers. Exchange rate adjustments
do cause petroleum price Increases, 'hut experience shows that their effect
on transport  costs is likely to be modest.    Improved availability of
gasoline, diesel, tires, batteries and spare parts should  'sod to lower
overall transport costs.
4.18      Thus, on the basis  of  recent experience and existing ,macro-
economic conditions, the depreciation of the FMG under a liberalized import
regime, if accompanied by continued prudent monetary and fiscal policies
coupled with realistic interest rates, should have a relatively modest
impact on the price level.   Furthermore,  as a result  of the proposed
foreign exchange allocation and trade regime reforms, the following factors
should tend to offset even these moderate upward pressures on prices:  a)
reduced marginal costs and additional supply availability as capacity
utilization increases in efficient industrial and agricultural activities;
b) increased imports, due initially to higher aid flows and subsequently to
stronger export performance; and c) reduction in effective protection and
increase in competition through trade liberalization, exerting downward
pressures on prices of domestically produced goods.



- 35 -
4.19      Overall  income  distribution  is expected to improve under the
praposed program as a result of a movement of the internal terms of trade
in favor of the heretofore relatively unprotected agricultural sector.
Higher producer prices for the main export crops, made possible by passing
on the gains from exchange rate depreciation, should raise farm incomes and
titus improve rural purchasing power and encourage farmers to increase
production of these crops.  In the urban areas, liberalization of domestic
marketing and good prospects for rice production should keep rice prices
steady as the FMG depreciates  further.   Regarding urban wages,  a very
significant downward real adjustment has already taken place over many
years precediag the depreciation of the FMG. A more efficient allocation
of scarce foreign exchange resources resulting from the proposed reforms
would increase output and productivity, leading to increases in urban
employment and real wages.   A successful outcome of current efforts  to
improve the cost effectiveness and targeting of social expenditures towards
the lowest income groups and planned Bank Group lending operations in
support of small-scale enterprise.; to expand employment opportunities
ehould also have positive social effects.
4.20      Finally, any assessment of the possible economic and social costs
of the proposed adjustment program ought to consider the social costs for
the population  in  the absence  of adjustment.   As noted  earlier,  the
downward trend of the Malagasy economy over the past years, which has
resulted in substantial social costs for the population, would continue if
a comprehensive program of reform stalls.   The significant drop in urban
wages, and employment stagnation in the face of a growing labor force,
are likely to continue if adjustment is postponed or only partially
implemented. The social costs of a comprehensive adjustment program, while
present in the short-term for some selected groups in the economy, compare
favorably to the prospects without adjustment and can be made even smaller
by appropriately targeted social expenditures, including the conversion of
the official  distribution  of  rice  to a targeted  program.    Government
activities to reduce the adverse effects of the transition on the more
vulnerable income groups are expected to include a long-term program of
studies and policy measures dealing with the social impact of the
adjustment process, undertaken with the assistance of the international
community.
E. Benefits and Risks
4.21      Madagascar  has  made  much  progress  since  the  onset  of  the
financial crisis in thLe early eighties, principally in the areas of
restoring Internal and external balance, agricultural marketing and
pricing, the removal of controls in the industrial sector and improvements
in the business environment for the private sector.   The policy package
described in this report would build on these reforms by broadening and
deepening the process of structural adjustment with a special emphasis on
trade and exchange rate policies and improvements in the use of public
sector resources.  This, in turn, should lead to increased efficiency and
an improved allocatiorn of resources. The proposed policies would reverse
the excessive protection from trade restrictions and the exchange rate
overvaluation that has distorted the structure of production and has led



- 36 -
to discrimination against exports and to the low competitiveness and
efficiency of the Malagasy economy. As indicated in the previous section,
the analysis of the expected impact suggests that the expected benefits
could be substantial.
4.22      The  increase  in  the  availability  of  foreign  exchange  made
possible by these Credits is expected to permit the more efficient and
cost-competitive enterprises to increase their output and exports.  These
firms can be expected to increase not only their exports, which would help
the country increase and diversify its sources of foreign exchange, but
also their output of basic consumption goods which should act as an
incentive to agricultural and urban  producers.   Beyond the immediate
increase in output, resulting from the foreign exchange support provided by
the Credits, there will be significant permanent increases in output and
employment opportunities for the country's growing labor force, resulting
from changes in the incentive structure in favor of efficient producers.
The timing and the magnitude of these increases are difficult to assess
with precision.   However, the past dynamism of the private sector in
Madagascar  shows  that  the  capacity  of  economic  agents  to  react  to
opportunities rapidly is strong.
4.23      The main risk facing the proposed operation is that internal
opposition to the continuation of the adjustment process may cause the
Government commitment to reform to waiver.   Although a beginning has
already been made in initiating reforms that would result in a supply-side
response from the economy, most of the adjustment efforts in Madagascar to
date have been in the area of stabilization. The benefits of stabilization
are important but they become visible only to the extent that they provide
the basis for recovery and growth. The losses experienced by the groups
hurt by the removal of distortions from which they have benefited are more
immediate and more vocally expressed than the future benefits derived from
greater efficiency. Furthermore, the expected financial support from the
international community and the growth in personal consumption may be less
than is now envisaged. Staying power will be needed until the medium and
longer term benefits of adjustment gather momentum.   The risks for the
success of adjustment, therefore, relate to the uncertainties about the
length and the difficulty of the adjustment process and the associated
internal pressures to slow down the pace of reform or even reverse it.
4.24      This risk is mitigated by several factors.  First, the prolonged
end serious difficulties of the economy and its bleak prospects without
adjustment have helped build a consensus on the need for sustained reform.
Support for the proposed policies is growing in Government and private
circles.   Second, the Government has been  implementing  important and
politically sensitive stabilization measures since 1981 and some sector
reforms since 1984. It has, therefore, been building a credible record of
gradual but continuing reforms.   Third, the expected benefits from an
improved allocation of scarce resources and from increased imports that
these Credits would entail can be expected to give tangible and timely
credibility to the policy reform package. Fourth, the Credits' proceeds
will be disbursed in three tranches, with release of each tranche linked to
satisfactory implementation of agreed actions.



- 37 -
F. Procur--,ent and Disbursement
4.25      Procurement and disbursement procedures for this operation have
been designed to allow rapid utilization of the Credits' proceeds. To that
end, Special Accounts for the proposed IDA and SPA Credits would be
established in dollars with a commercial bank of the Government's choice,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.  At effectiveness, initial
deposits of US$3 million would be made by IDA and US$15 million by the
African Facility  to their respective Special Accounts.   These accounts
would be replenished regularly.  Statements of expenditures would be used
to support requests for disbursements for all purchase orders for less than
US$100 thousand.   Statements of expenditures wojld be prepared by  the
Central Bank, which would retain appropriate ducumentation for review by
IDA. These statements would be audited annually. FuU documentation would
be required for all other expenditures.   Disbursements would cover 100
percent of the cif costs of eligible imports, on the basis of a negative
list, and 100 percent of expenditures for consulting services.  The PPF
would be refinanced by the IDA Credit.
4.26      Enterprises and other importers can be expected to procure their
imports in accordance with normal commercial procedures from the most
efficient sources, and to minimize costs. Contracts for goods costing more
than US$2 million, however, would be awarded on the basis of procedures
that include international competitive bidding with simplified advertising
and currency provisions.  Expenditures covered by the IDA Credit would be
in accordance with IDA rules, while expenditures covered by the Africa
Facility Credit would be in accordance with the resolution establishing
the facility, i.e., for goods produced in, or services supplied from, any
Part II member of IDA, Part I members who have contributed to the Facility
or any country which maintains Special Joint Financing arrangements with
IDA.  Consultants for the studies (para. 3.30 and 3.34) would be selected
according to normal procedures acceptable to IDA.
G. Tranche Release and Monitoring
4.27      Except for US$1 million (covering the PPF and the studies of the
financial and public enterprise sectors), the proceeds of the Credits would
be made available in three equal tranches, upon effectiveness of the Credit
Agreements and about four and ten months thereafter, respectively (i.e.,
January and July 1988). Release of the second tranche would be conditional
on:   (i) elimination of all import prohibitions for protective purposes;
(ii) simplification of the import tariff system and introduction of minimum
and maximum tariffs of 10 percent and 80 percent respectively; (iii)
reduction of the number of goods for which profit margins are controlled
from 16 to 8; (iv) agreement on rehabilitation plans for ten public
enterprises; (v) agreement on portfolio rehabilitation 2lans for BNI, BTM
and BFV; (vi) agreement on the public investment program for 1988; (vii)
satisfactory progress in the implementation of policies described in the
Government's statement of Industrial and Trade Policy (Annex 4); and (viii)
effectiveness of the Loan and Grant agreements with Japan. Release of the
third tranche would be conditional on:  (i) adoption of a four-year tariff
reform program aimed at reducing average tariff protection from its current
level of 46 percent to 35 percent and the dispersion around the average
from 45 percent to 15 percent; (ii) elimination of controls on profit



- 38 -
margins on the eight goods still under control; (iii) agreement on
appropriate systems to improve the efficiency of bank supervision by the
Central Bank; (iv) implementation of a restructuring plan for the three
banks; (v) introduction of an Open General Licence system for all imports;
and (vi) satisfactory progress in the implementation of policies described
in the Government's Statement of Industrial and Trade Policy (Annex 4).
4.28      Progress of the adjustment program will  be monitored  in  two
ways.   First, regular supervision will be carried out.  In this context,
the Government will regularly exchange views with the Bank Group on
progress  achieved under the Credits.   As part of these exchanges, the
Government will furnish the Bank with a report on the status of the
implementation of its adjustment program in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request.   The first such exchange of views will take place
before January  1988.   Second,  the preparation of follow-up adjustment
operations would be based on the successful implementation of the program
supported by this operation.  To ensure successful implementation of this
and timely preparation of the subsequent adjustment operations, the
Government has set up a special interministerial Economic Committee to
oversee progress, supervise studies and coordinate action plans of the key
ministries and agencies involved in the adjustment process.
H. Collaboration with the IMF
4.29      As  is  evident  from  the  several  references  to  collaboration
between the Bank and the Fund in this report, staff from the two
institutions have worked closely together, and with the Government, in
designing the adjustment program supported by the present operation.
This cooperation was achieved both at headquarters and during parallel and
joint missions to Madagascar.   Fund staff participated actively in the
negotiations of the Credits recommended in this report and are in full
agreement  with  the  policy  reform  package  it  supports.    Furthermore,
negotiations of the Policy Framework Paper for the proposed IMF Structural
Adjustment Facility, which was prepared jointly by the two staffs, are
expected to be completed soon.   Fund staff have focused in particular on
exchange rate and trade regime issues. Continued cooperation in this, and
other areas where further reform is required, is an essential element for
the success of the adjustment program.
PART V - BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
The Existing Portfolio
5.01      Overall Lending Levels and Sectoral Composition.  As of March 31,
1987, IDA Credits to Madagascar amounted to US$615.1 million (including
US$29.9 million from the Special Fund and US$53 million from the Special
Facility for Africa) and Bank Loans totalled US$32.6 million. Bank Group
assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated on infrastructure, Including
urban and social infrastructure (48 percent of lending), agriculture and
industry (41 percent) and energy (11 percent).  IFC has four investments
in Madagascar, in textiles, footwear, and fisheries.   Annex 2 contains a
summary statement of past Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1987.



- 39 -
5.02      Infrastructure Lending.   The Bank has supported 11 transport
projects with IDA Credits  totalling US$205.9 million.    Six  (US$147.2
million) were  for  the construction,  maintenance and rehabilitation  of
highways,  one (US$11.65 million) in  1970 to improve Madagascar's main
port of Toamasina, and three (US$31 million) to support the railway's
moderaization efforts, in 1974, 1979 and 1986.   A ports rehabilitation
project (US$16.0 million) was approved in January 1987.  All except the
sixth highway project, the third railways project, which has only recently
been declared effective, and the ports rehabilitation project, which was
recently approved, have been completed.   Urban infrastructure development
benefited in 1980 from a Water Supply and Sanitation Credit for the capital
city of Antananarivo (US$20.5 million), and an urban development project
(US$12.8  million)  in  1984.    In  1984  IDA  responded  to  the  need  to
reconstruct cyclone damage with a US$15 million Credit; a supplemental
Credit of US$10 million, following the March 1986 cyclone, was approved by
the Executive Directors in August 1986 and declared effective in December
1986.
5.03      Agricultural Lending.   The Bank has supported 15 agricultural
projects, of which five have been completed and 10 are under execution.
These projects include three livestock development, four irrigation, two
agricultural institution development, two forestry projects, and one for
each of agricultural credit, rice intensification and cotton development.
After intensive preparation, an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit was
approved in May 1986.  The program on which it was based included major
modifications in rice marketing, improved agricultural public investment
programmi ng, and actions to promote export crops.  A second agricultural
Credit to BTM was approved by the Executive Directors in May 1987.
5.04      Energy projects  have  received  growing  Bank  Group  attention.
IDA participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the large
Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully completed in June
1982. Two Credits (for US$12.5 million and SDR 10.7 million) for petroleum
exploration support the Government 's efforts to develop a domestic supply
of hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the energy sector.   In both
projects the technical components have proceeded well. Over US$250 million
in exploration development by foreign oil companies has been generated by
promotion under  one of the projects.   Energy planning  remains weak,
although the recent decision by Government to give prime responsibility for
energy planning to the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines has set the
scene for improved use of resources in this sector. An energy project was
approved by the Board in April 1987.
5.05      Other Lending.  In 1980, a US$5 million Credit was made to BNI,
the National Bank for Industry. An Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit of
US$40 million became effective in August 1985 and a supplemental Credit of
US$20 million from the Special Facility for Africa was approved in December
1985.  In the social sectors, education has been the major recipient of
Bank assistance with two Credits in 1967 and 1976 totalling US$11.8
million. A Credit of SDR 9.4 million (US$11.5 million) for an accounting
and audit training project was approved in 1981; and a second Credit of
US$10.3 million  for  training  auditors,  accountants  and managers   in
February 1986.



- 40-
5.06      Problems have arisen in the execution of a number of projects.
These include mainly delays, cost overruns, deficiencies in management and
inadequate financial performance. Current problems center on difficulties
linked to the country's economic crisis, notably the acute shortage of
foreign exchange and budget funds, and institutional problems with the
parastatal system. The Bank has addressed generic issues through Country
Implementation Reviews in June 1985 and in May 1987. The Government has
been responsive and there have been improvements in Government portfolio
management.
5.07      Eight completed projects have  been audited by the Operations
Evaluation Department. Audit Report No. 1622 of December 1976 on the first
Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally successful.
However, the Impact Evaluation Report No. 3600 of August 1981 concluded
that earlier assessments of project performance had been overoptimistic
and that the actual rate of return was probably negative. Report No. 5403
of  December  1984  covered  two  agricultural  projects:    the  Morondava
Irrigation and Rural Development Project was a profoundly disappointing
operation, but the village Livestock and Rural Development Project
contributed to laying the groundwork for more effective services for
traditional livestock owners, with good prospects for sustainability.
5.08      Audit Report No.  1143 of April  1976 on  the first Education
Project concluded that the education and manpower training objectives were
satisfactorily achieved. Report No. 2143 of July 1978 coneluded that the
Third Highway project was well justified and had a satisfactory rate of
return, despite substantial cost overruns.   Report No. 2299 of December
1978 concluded that the physical objectives of the Tamatave Port project
were satisfactorily achieved but pointed out that the institutional
objective was not accomplished during project implementation because of
inadequacies in the staffing of the port authority.  Report No. 5434 of
January 1984 on the firsit Railway Project concluded that, due to overruns
and delays, the scaled-down project had an estimated rate of return of less
than ten percent.
Bank Strategy and Future Program
5.09      The Bank strategy is to support  the Government's  efforts  to
rehabilitate and restructure the economy by:   (a) promoting policies and
programs aimed at reforming incentive structures, setting a more favorable
climate for private sector initiative and investments, and providing
financial and other support for appropriate policy programs; (b) supporting
sectoral strategies aimed at rehabilitating productive infrastructure and
establishing conditions for long-term growth, and providing financial and
technical assistance for these programs; (c) strengthening the institutions
responsible for sectoral policy formulation and management; and (d) helping
Madagascar to mobilize and to make effective use of donor and creditor
financial, technical and debt relief support.
5.10      The economic dud sector work program for the next three years is
intended to support the identification of future adjustment measures, as
well as donor coordination within the Consultative Group framework.   It
is directed at parastatal reform, improvements in public investment and
expenditure programs, and development of a core medium-term lending



- 41 -
program.   UNDP/IBRD projects for technical assistance to the Directorate
General of Planning in planning and aid coordination were recently signed.
A study of the population and health sectors was discussed with the
Government in March 1987, and a mining sector report is in preparation.
The Bank is also providing technical assistance in policy analysis and
selected  institution-building.       Two  secondment  positions  have  been
approved, and the Bank's Resident Mission in Madagascar has been augmented
by a resident economist and an agricultural country officer.
5.11      Madagascar has benefited from $60 million in commitments under
the IDA Special Facility for Africa, which has provided a useful stimulus
to the adjustment process in the country.  On the assumption of continued
Government responsiveness, the Bank plans to support Government adjustment
efforts with sectoral and, possibly, structural adjustment lending as its
main vehicle of financial assistance. An operation aimed at reforming and
assisting the adjustment of the public enterprise sector and improving the
business environment for all enterprises is under preparation.   A second
sector adjustment operation in agriculture is also being prepared; it would
support continued market deregulation and export promotion.   The lending
program would also address longer term issues in small-scale enterprise
and human resource development, health and population programs, forestry,
and  agricultural  extension  and  research.    A  mining  project  for  the
exploitation of mineral sands is in the early scages of preparation and a
highway project is soon to be appraised.   Overall, future lending would
concentrate mainly on agriculture, industry, and transport.
5.12      The main vehicle for aid coordination has been the Consultative
Group. An important part of the Bank's country assistance strategy is to
make the Consultative Group a more effective means of addressing
Madagascar's economic and financial problems.   The Bank has also been
represented at Paris Club meetings  on Madagascar.   Donor and creditor
support of a comprehensive financing strategy, combined with a sound
Government program to stimulate real growth, offers the best prospects for
future development.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
6.01      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the proposed African
Facility Credit would comply with Resolution No. IDA 85-1 and recommend
that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credits.   I further
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the administration by the
Association of the proposed Japanese Grant.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
June 5, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 42 -
MOCASCM  - EOrhC IOICATORS                                                 Annex  1
Nl;d-1915 Populstien (mile.)     10                                                                                     Page  1  of  4
1ISo  Per Capita CW is Wa:      250
A. Sheree or Gross Do_setic Product                         *. Growth Rate. Es per *amus)
(from current price date)                                  (tram  oaeLet price date)
1965     1973     1g6O     1984     1965p    ISe            195-f73  197340  1960-44       19,ip  1iff
Cros Doesetie Product cp.           100      100      100       1C0      100      lO0                          L     -1.4      2.2        0.9
fat Indirect TYese              11.9    13.4
Aricultbu,-    32.3    38.1    42.4                                    42     43.2                       - 0.4     1.9       1.9       2.2
Iodustry                          ..    20.2        18    1S.6    1634        15.6 H                       .      -9.7      5.1      -1.9
(of which l4nufc        .tutri ng)
Serv;ces                                 47.4    45. 9       42     41.6        41                        1.9     -1.2       1.a       0.6
R-eourc- BHlsce                    -6.4       -4   -17.1    -4.4    -5.3    -4.7
Esports of ClFS                 15.7    16.9    15.9    15.6    14.5    15. 1                   -1.4      1.9   -10.6       4.3        3.8
I_portL of CNS                  22.1    20.9    32.9         20      19.8    19.8                0.6      2.7   -14.8    -0.5           7
Total Epe-nditurm                 106.4      104    117.1   104.4   105.3   104.7                            1.3    -3:3        1.6       1.6
Total Consu-mtion               96.2    89.7    93.5    90.8    91.3    90.                               0.9    .-16        1.S       1 l
Pr,i.At Consueption          73.6    72.4    76.4       77.3    77.8    77.7                           0.2     -1.5      1.4        1.2
C ntral Co-aroment           22.5     17.3    17.1       13.5    13.5    122.                 3.3      4.3    -1.8        1.9       0.7
Cross Dosetic Investment        10.2     14.3    23.5    111.          14     14.2               4.2      3.2   -11.5         2        4.6
Fieci  nve-tment                      13 .S    22. 
Changes in Stoch                       0.8      0.7
Crom  Domestic Saving               3.8     10.3      6.5       9.2      8.7      9.5                       -9.5     10.6    -5.1        6.9
Kat Factor Incom                -&-      -2.2    -1.4    -5.6        -5.3    -4.6
Nat CurrantTranfr.                                 2 1.4    3.1       4.1
Croam  National Saving                                6 .      6.7      7.                                 -12.0    -2T.1      M3 -0
In ..I; iM. of Lai's               1968     1073     1980     1964      L985,   19s
(-t con-twnt 1980 Orie0s)          -_       __-      __       ----
Crowem DO.atic Product            ..      623      690       648      660      66                           1     -1.4      2.2        0.9
C-_pcity to Iwort                136      158      109       88        82       92               1.4    -4.7    -4.4         -7       11S
Term-  of Trade Adjustst          40       66        0        19       10 ..
Cross DtsLie Incoa                        544      6Go       665      670      63                        - 4.2    -0.6      0.8        1.9
croe  National Product                    612      680      570       575      50W                        1.2    -3.9       0.9        2.5
Crom" National Xncome                     578      680       589      ses      606                       -0.1    -3.1    -0.6          3.6
-  100)----------- -                 ------         latiom Rates (3 p.s.)- ---
C. Prie. dices                     1960     1Q82      1963    1964      1065,    1966.          1956-73  1973-80 1960-44    196p    1968.
Cons"er Prics (FSF 64)              100      172    205.3   225. 5                                  3.4      9.1     23.1
Wholesale Prices (IFS 63)M
Implicit COP Deflator               100    150.3   193.7       212   235.3   275.9                          10.2    21.5        11      17.3
Implicit Ependituras Deflator       100    157.5   190.3   207.2   233.5   270.6                           2117      20.6    12.7        L158
D. Other Indicaters                      1965-73            1973-80           1980-65p         _-______________________
Croath Rates (3 a.a):
P.nuit;on                                 2.4               2.7               3.0
Labor Force
Cross National Incom  pc                   .               -2.7              -5.5
Private Consumption pc *                                   -2.4              -3.9
L-sort El-aticity:
POrts  ICS) / CoP (Ca)                     ,.               2.7
Iargi,nl SainogB Rtas
3sro-, Nations I Sewing
Cross omewtic Sewing
ICOR (period aveages):
e *  eatimete dats
Share of Total      t              1965     1973     1960     108Sp                                     p   pral;minary dats
Labor Forc in:
Agricult-rs                     85.2    82.0      60.9       85
Industry                         4.3      5.2      5.9      2.7
Sr vi ce.                       So.      11.9     13.1      9.2
Total



43  -                               ~~~~~~Annexc  1
ADAWM -C C DOWAICA                                              Page 2 of 4
Value  lad"  (10 -  160)I                   Valel at Current Price. (millIons  I).
E. Nerdrr_i,d     KEporhe          16o0     1662    t19      1io       164    1S    W0 ow2 Iwo             1u4      191114   1xoi    na
Coesd itr 1 I Coffee              100.0    76.2    72.?    74.0        ".3    72.1        214     I:I      141       1oo      104       125
Ceeeditr 2 ! Wenilla             100.0   25.5    26.0   201.7   15.7   195.1              l       73       To       71       44        41
Com=Wedit 3 z Clowes              100.0   240.1    U8.2   141.1   254.4   255.7           m1      101       53       46       38        3'
G_;eit  A                            ..       ..       ..      .-       ..        ..
anuefactres                          ..       ..      .. ..              ..      ..        2        iU                        2         a
Other Experts                       ..         .       ..       ..l ..           ..                 o       n                 72        72
Totl MerchadAise Expes Fl        100.0    110-.   117.2   113.1   106.4   1211.0         411     421       SI      448      281       260
F. Merchandies lumers
Fed                               100.0   86.3   161.8   108.0   120.2   149.5            36       162       11      50       50        S1
MaL ad Other En-re                100.0   140.7   168.15    11.9   135.2    64.8          70       137      13       16       85        48
Other 5mpar15
OtMer Consumer Gade            100.0    48.5    39.1    43.6    53.0    40.9            as      40       39       47       52        43
Or Intermeditle GOed           100.0  S3.7    36.3    3.2    31.3    4A.O               0       147      14r      150     109       135
Cepitsl Coe                    10D.O    33.9    27.5   26.0    21.6    30.4           176       149      114      133      69       101
Total Merrhandias Iserta CIF    ICO.O       8.7    46.1    42.9    42.4    49.0          613      670      S        s54      481       371
C. Term of Trade (1080 - 100)    1q1D       1962    18        1664     1666   1Sw             _
March. Expert Prece laden           100     0D.3    66.8    66.1        4.4   101.1
Nercb. leprto Price Iad             -         0116   6.5    98.8    91.4    90.6
Merchandise Tern of Traed            10     04.1    64.6    69.8   10e.3   111.3
1i II ons (n curesnt prices):
H. SaIem  of PaensX                1 1960,  1062     18"3        1S114    lWS    loeSe
E.porte of  eod.s end   S          S1       360      36       373      32       300
Marchandi _ (Fll)               43a      527       310     317      270      239
MOe-Factor Services -2                     as       47     5B        61       62
mart s of Ooods end NFS           1075      8a2      551      490      498      399
marced;in (FM)                  764       452     378      335      352      260
Nen-Factor Services             311       200      173     165       16T     1J39         e -stited data
p - Preliminary data
Resorce balm-7                                      -194    -118      -161      -66
Net Factor laces.                  -40      -96     -113    -tI7      -124     -121
(interest per OM                 27       ST       34       37       5a
Net Current Transfor                4         71       6       74        05      67
no'ks. remittances)                  0        0        0        0        0        0
Current Account B lance           -IV7      W00     -247    -17        1.900   -Z22
LoaTere Capital Inflow            375       121      197       2       148     164
;i ct nvete.ent                    0       0        0        0        0        a
Official Capitol Crants           0        0        0        0        0        0
14.t. LT Lasts (U  dote)         W7       206      163      97       9 3       -
Other LT iteflows (Not)          16      -6        14       55       5S ..
Ttal Other Iten (Not)              233       130      30       25       26      -24
Not. Shrt-tern Capitel          233       130      30       25       26      -24
Capital FIo N.E.I1                0        0        a        a        0        a
Errors and Oainie.ns              0        0        a        0        0        0
Chanae in Not Re1es- we             -51      46       21       -7       16      -18
Mt Credit from RF                49       57        7       1i       -3        3
Other Reserve Chsanes
C - indicates increase)        -100       -9       14      -24       19      -20
As ear" of CDP:
Resmource  alence              -17.1    -9.5    -6.9        -5    -6.9
INteret Pfymt.                  0.8      1.3       1.2     1.6      2.3       ..
Curoent Account Uslecew          -17    -10.5    -3.7    -7.2    -6.1
NeecrNd_s Itse:
Internst. R-enaves 5i l_ USI5)       9       20       20       56       48
Reserves mnrI. Cold (sitI U5E)        9       20       29      56       48
Official x-ets (LO'-JSI)          211.3  340.11     3O.5   576.6   62.48
lnda  Reel Eff. X-R Dows 166       100   l1T.48   117.61   1o6.54     64.6
UIP (mill ions of current 155)    36        218 2U     8     2374    2345        .,



- 44 -
Annex 1
NAIMCASCAR - OCONaIC INCICATIS                                          Page  3  of  4
Sitar.. of  PW (3                                     Creeth Rates. (in currant prices)
1. Budgetl                        1060      196     1900    1.984    1905p    1986.              1180 - 63         1964      1985    1966.
Currant Recaipta                   17.93    16.511   17A3    15.93    161.9 go                            23.311   19.83    30.11
Currant Eapenditures              20.23    20.43    17.43    16.236   15.45                               12.53     7.6 1s4.03
Current. Budget 9lnc.nG            2.311    1.631   -0.41    -2.73    -1.53       .                      202.331 -129.93   735.231
Capital Receipts                     .        .        .        .        .-       .                          .       -
Capital Expendltures               16.13     9.93    9.431    9.131    7.13       .                        3.21    20.55    19.03
Overall Deficit                    18.43    11.03    6.23     5.43     5.916      .-i.                             -6.21   -18.s
Official Capital Crane.             0.03    0.55     0.83      1.03    0.331      .                          .    127.63    50.03l
Eutarnal Borrowing (noat)           6.93     6.4"    4.813    3.0      3.13       ..                        .03    B8.13   -21.031
Domeatic Mun-Bank Financing        11.8.3   4.33     3.71     2.63      1.51      .                      -20.43     7.73   412.331
Deetic Sanlk Financing             0.13    0.33    -0.111  -0.23      0.03       .                       102.93  4144.43   1.00.031
Nat Dhaburemente OmB ;I milone)                  Debt Dutatanding & Disbursad (U.3 eii-)
J. Eatarnel Capital Floee.Debt,    ----------------------                                                        -------------
and Debt hrdent Retina          196      196      1968    1934      16wp    191115    1900    1962     1963    19O4       1985p   186.
Public a Publicly Gmerenteed UT    357      210      lea       iT       98        .      958      1635    ims      1937f    2340
Afficial Creditors,              231      167     232       Be      106        .      630     1039    1278    149s       1670
tIVII tletralI                es       e1        M       41       73       ..      220      323      373      407      496
of viich IE                  L        0       -L      -1       -1       ..       30       31       30       28       27
of ahich IDA                25       38      34       30       57       ..       12      103      217      245      306
Hi LasteralI                  168      126       77       48      35       ..      409      716      903     1091      1361
Privet., Credi twoe              121      23       SL.       it     -16        .      329      590      562      489      461
SuppIiere                     62       13        0        2       5        ..      15       197     202      1SO      154
Financial Market.              5&       10       St       9      -20        ..      ill     399      380      330      307
Privet. Nun-Guaranteed LT.                    .        ..       .        ..       .       ..        .
Total LT                            357     210       188      97       93               956     1635     1880     1967    2340
IW Net Credit                       49       52        7       1*       -4       ..       55      140      130      14B      162
Nat Short-Term Capital              233     130       30       25       29      -24      238       67      148       08       as
Total including DPI A Ht ST         589      391      219      141      L17              ml 25    1661    2145    2218      2588
Dank and IDK Ratio.               1980     1962     1983    1964      12I65p    1986.-------------   ----------
Shtar, of Total Long-Tome DOD     3.11I    1.87      1.59    1.43     1.15s
1. IBM am  lof Totlu             1 2.72    11.19    11.66    12.31    13.17
2. IDA -m II of TotalI            15.68    13.01    13.25    13.74    14.32
3. rIW.IDA we 3 of TotalI
Share of Total LT Debt Sarvicme
1. IBM! am 3 of TotLu             4.72     3.74    3.89      4.44     2.62
2. IDA as K of Total               1.69    2.22    5."4    4.03    2.65
3. IURDIDA as S of TotalI          6.56    5.62      9.2    6.47      5. 47
DOD-tio-Exporta Ratioa
1. Langt-Teran DabtfEaporta      184.01  427.62  519.67   526.33   695.6
2. IW Credit/Eaporta              10.55   36.53    38.03   39.21    48.01          
3. Short-Term Debt/Exports,      45.92    22.77    40.8   21.09   25.56
4. LT.INF.ST DMD/Eaporta        241.39   dm7'.12  599.61   587.52  78917  .                  a7  aetiaet.d data
p- preli.inary date
DlD-to-CDP Ratio.,
1. Long-Tara DebtjO0             29.36    57.39    45.59    83.6     99.79
2. 1W Credit/CDP                   1.68     4.0    4.91      5.23     6.09
3. Short-Tarsr Debt/ODW           7.29      3.05    5.15      3.5    3.67
4. LT.INFaST DMfDOW              38.32    65.35   75.65    93.41   110.35
Debt Serd ce/Eaporte
1. Public Afliarantued LT         11.44    18.9   21.56    10.71    34.75
2. Private Wuon-Coernateed LT        ..       .
3. Total LT DebtL Service         11.4.4    18.9   21.56    19.71   34.78
4. 1W Rapurchases * Sar Chowa.
5. Interest Only on ST Debt
6. Total  (LT.1PY.ST   lat.)------ ---- - - ----- ----------



- 45 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
MADACASCAR: MEDIUM-TERM PROJECTIONS, 1987-90
(Absolute Values are in USX Millions)
3% Growth Cas                 3.s% Growth Case
1986   1987/88  1989/90       1986   1987/88  1989/fl
-----(average)---         ---   ----(average)--
A. Th Real Econo7m
CDP Growth,X                                0.7X     2.9%      2.5%       0.7X     3.2X      3.S%
GDY Growth, X                               1.0X     2.4X      3.0%       1.0X     2.7%      3.5X
GDY Per Capita Growth, X                   -1.9%    -0.6%      O.0%      -1.9%    -0.3%      0.6%
CDS/CDP                                     9.5X     9.8%    13.2%        9.6X      9.8%    13.2X
GDI/GDP                                    14.2X    14.4%    14.4X       14.2%    14.4%    14.41
Import Growth, X                           -4.61     0.6X      2.8%      -4.61     2.9S      S.4%
Export Growth, %                            9.1X     5.3%      8.1X       9.1%      6.3%     8.1%
B Balanc of Paym nts
Export , fob                              335.7    397.8    637.6       336.7    397.8    537.6
Imports, fob                             -353.0   -427.0   -473.5      -353.0   -440.8   -530.1
Trade Balance                             -17.2    -29.2      64.1      -17.2    -43.0       7.5
Service Balance                          -286.3   -320.9   -338.9      -285.3   -322.8   -351.3
Private Transfers                          33.4     33.1      40.6       33.4     33.1      40.6
Current Balance                          -269.1   -316.9   -234.3      -269.1   -332.6   -303.2
C . Fj'jlgnani
Public Transfers                          103.1    103.0    109.3       103.1    103.0    109.3
Net Drawings iLT                           14.5     31.8      26.8       14.5     31.8      26.8
Debt Relief                               193.2    195.4    161.5       193.2    196.4    164.5
Net IMF                                     4.0      -6.6    -43.1        4.0      -6.6    -43.1
Arrears Reduction                          -9.4    -17.4    -20.5        -9.4    -17.4    -20.6
Reserves Increase                         -58.9     -4.0      -6.8      -68.9      -6.0     -6.8
Others, NEI                                22.5      3.4      13.5       22.6      3.4      13.5
Financing Gap                               0.0    -13.4      -3.6        0.0    -29.1    -69.6
D. Memo Items
Debt Servic/Exports, before relief         92.7%    94.56     78.9%      92.7%    94.5%    78.9%
Debt Service/Exports, after relief         47.0%    68.7X    61.51       47.0%    56.71 S0.2%
Debt Service, before relief               391.9    477.7    648.4       391.9    477.7    552.9
Debt Service, after relief                198.7    282.3    396.9       198.7    282.3    388.4
IMF SAF                                             14.5       6.3                14.5       6.3
Note:  GDY refers  to  Gross  Domestic  Income,  defined  as Gross Domestic
Product adjusted for terms of trade changes. GDS is Gross Domestic
Savings. GDI is Gross Domestic Investment. Term loan drawings are
based on a detailed projection of drawings from already contracted
loans as well as from new commitments assumed for 1987-1989 on the
basis of past experience and contacts with selected donors; the IDA
drawings include the operation proposed in this document and another
quick-disbursing operation a year  later.           The 1986-87 debt relief
figures reflect the October 1986 Paris Club agreement; the 1988-89
estimates assume the same terms  and  are net of moratorium interest
charges arising from the rescheduling.



- 46 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1987)
Loan or                                                                    (Amount US! Ml llI on
Credit                                                                     less cancyl lations)
Number      Year     Borrower      Purpose                            Bank      IDA 4/  Undisbursed 2/
Sixteen Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                                             32.57    194.54        --
CR.   817-MAO    1978     Madagascar    Andekalake Hydroelectric                      40.80 3/      0.03
CR.   881-MAG    1979     Madagascar   tangoky - Agriculture                          12.00         1.19
CR.  1164-MAG    1981     Madagascar   Agriculture Bank - i3n                         11.60         1.65
CR.  1086-MAC    1991     Madagascar   Plain of Antananarivo T.A.                      2.30         0.36
CR.  1155-MAC    1981     Madagascar   Accounting & Audit                             11.50         1.10
CR.  1161-MAO    1981     Madagascar   Forestry II                                    20.00         5.64
CR.  1211-MAG    1982    Madagascar    Village Livestock II                           15.00        10.17
CR.  1249-MAG    1982     Madagascar    Agriculture Institutions                       5.70         0.74
CR.  1298-MAG    1982     Madagaacer   Teimiroro Heavy Oil Exploration                11.50         4.38
CR.  1337-MAG    1982     Madagascar   Lac Alaotra                                    19.00        13.42
CR.  1391-MAG    1983     Madagascar   Sixth Highway                                  25.00         4.92
CR.  F004-MAG    1983     Madagascar   Sixth Highway                                  20.00         8.51
CR. 1433-MAG    1983      Madagascar   Cotton Developmnt                               7.90         1.12
CR. FOOS-MAC    1983      Madagascar    Cotton Devolopment                             9.90         2.04
CR. F1497-MAG   is8a      Madagascar   Urban                                          12.80        13.27
CR. 1526-MAG    1984      Madagascar    Cyclone Rehabilitation                        16.00         1.20
CR. 1541-MAG    1986      Madagacar    Industrial Assistance                          40.00        25.57
CR. A007-MAC   1986       Madagascar    Industrial Assistance (SFA)                   20.00        10.69
CR. 1589-MAG    1986      Madagaecor   Irrigation Rehabilitation                      10.57        12.46
CR. 1681-MAG    1986      Madagascar   Accounting A Mgtmt. Training                   10.30        12.21
CR. 1526-MAG    1986      Madagascar   Cyclone Supplemental                           10.00        11.31
CR. 1891-MAC    1996      Madagascar   Ag. Sector Adjt. Credit                        20.00        20.19
CR. A16-MAG      1986     Madagascar   Ag. Sector Adjt. Credit                        33.00        32.39
CR. 1694-MAC    198       Madagascar   Third Rallray                                  12.00        12.87
CR. 1709-MAC    1986      Madagascar   Second Ag. Institutions                        10.00         9.66
CR. 1752-MAG4/  1987      Madagascar   Port Rehabilitation                            16.00        16.97
TOTAL                                            32.67    616.11       231.85
of which has been repaid                         7.16      6.05
TOTAL now outstanding                            25.42    610.05
Amount sold                                                 6.85
of which has been repaid                          --       6.88
TOTAL now hold by Bank and IDA                   25.42    610.08
TOTAL undisbursed                                                      231.65
./ The status of projects li-ted In Part 'A' is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31
2J  Except Credits 817 and 881-MAG, the undisbursd balance of IDA 6 and 7
in USE was calculated at the SDR rate of 3/31/87.
/ Including a supplemental credit of US! 10 million of 1980.
9 Not yet effective



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investment (as of March 31, 1987)
Loan       Equity    Total
(US$ Million)-------
1977      Sotema - Textile Hill at Majunga        11.00      0.299    11.299
1980      Bets - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                          1.25         --       1.25
1983      Pecheries de Nossi-Be                    2.57      0.099      2.669
1985      Cotona, S.A. at Antisirabe               9.35      0.184      9.534
Total                        24.17       0.582    24.752
Total Commitments now
Held by IFC                   15.92      0.582    16.51
Total Undisbursed            2.93          --       2.93



- 48 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT CREDITS
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                             February 1986
(b)  Project Preparation                        July 1986
(c)  Appraisal Mission                          November/December 1986
(d)  Negotiations                               April/May 1987
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness              August 1987
(f)  Planned Second Tranche Release             January 1988
Cg)  Planned Third Tranche Release              July 1988
II. Actions to be Taken Before Credit Effectiveness
(i)  Enlarge and improve market-oriented system of foreign exchange
allocation (3.16 to 3.19);
Cii)  Decontrol the ex-roctory prices of five of the ten goods still
under control (3.24);
Ciii) Award the contracts for the preparation of an action program for
public sector enterprises and for a study of the financial system
(3.30 and 3.34).
III. Actions to be Taken Before the Release of the Second Tranche
(i)  Eliminate all import prohibitions for protective purposes (3.19);
(ii)  Simplify import tariff system and introduce minimum and maximum
tariffs of 10 percent and 80 percent, respectively (3.21);
Ciii) Reduce the number of goods for which profit margins are controlled
from 16 to 8 (3.24);
(iv)  Agree  on  the  rehabilitation  plans  for  ten public enterprises
(3.29);
(v) Agree  on portfolio  rehabilitation  plans  for BNI, BTM and BFV
(3.32);
(vi)  Agree on the 1988 national PIP (3.26);
Cvii) Satisfactory progress in the implementation of policies described
in the Government's Statement of Industrial and Trade Policy
(Annex 4);
(viii) Effectiveness of the Loan and Grant agreements with Japan (1.01).



- 49 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
IV. Actions to be Taken Before the Release of the Third Tranche
(i)  Adopt a four-year tariff reform program aimed at reducing average
tariff protection from its current level of 46 percent to 35
percent and the dispersion around the average from 45 percent to
15 percent (3.21);
(ii)  Eliminate controls on profit margins on the eight goods still
under control (3.24);
(iii) Agree on appropriate systems to improve the efficiency of bank
supervision by the Central Bank (3.33);
(iv) Implement a restructuring plan for the three banks (3.32);
(v) Introduce an Open General Licence system for all imports (3.19);
(vi) Satisfactory progress in the implementation of policies described
in the Government's Statement of Industrial and Trade Policy
(Annex 4).
V. Special Feature
Government Statement of Industrial and Trade Policy (Annex 4).



- 50 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
STATEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY
(Translation from the French)
Background
1.        At the beginning of the 1980s, the Malagasy economy, facing a
severe balance of payments crisis, was in recession and was unable to meet
its external debt service obligations.  Given the high population growth
rate, per capita income in 1986 was 20 percent below its 1980 level, while
purchasing power in urban areas had begun to decline. This disappointing
performance was as much the result of external shocks as of internal
rigidities of the economy. A policy of investment at all costs, pursued
during a period of economic stability, did not give the anticipated results
but instead accentuated internal and external disequilibria.
Stabilization
2.        Faced with this  difficult economic situation and aware that
economic recovery would be impossible unless internal and external finances
were put on a sounder footing, the Government instituted a policy of
stabilization. In 1981, with the support of an IMP standby arrangement,
it began implementing a series of measures aimed at containing aggregate
demand.   Fiscal restraint  and a prudent monetary  policy  resulted  in
substantial reductions in the public sector and external current account
deficits, as well as in a slowdown of inflation. The budget deficit was
reduced from 18.4 percent of GDP in 1980 to 3.9 percent in 1986; the
external current account deficit was also brought down, from 18.3 percent
of GDP in 1980 to 10.5 percent in 1986.   Finally,  the inflation rate
declined to 14 percent in 1986, compared to 30 percent in 1981 and 1982.
The Adjustment Process
3.        The Government also launched a program of macroeconomic reforms
aimed at creating the conditions essential for a resumption of economic
growth.   In particular,  the Malagasy franc was pegged to a basket of
currencies and has been adjusted several times since then. In real terms
it has been devalued by 18 percent since 1980.   Several changes in the
exchange rate regime have been implemented in the context of the sixth
standby agreement.
4.        The World Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to
stabilize the economy and lay the foundations for economic growth.  This
support has taken the form of two sector adjustment operations, one in
industry and the other in agriculture.   In the industrial sector, the
Government has taken steps to narrow considerably the field of application
of the system of ex-factory price controls. Major effort has been put into
increasing the effectiveness of the public investment program for the
industrial sector.  Measures have been introduced to encourage exports.
Some restrictions on imports have been eliminated and a new investment oDde
designed to encourage private sector initiative has been enacted.   In



- 51 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 6
agriculture, the Government has moved toward liberalizing pricing and
marketing arrangements. The monopoly on rice trading has been eliminated.
The public sector has withdrawn from the distribution of agricultural
inputs in favor of the commercial sector, and the agricultural sector
investment program has been improved markedly.
Towards Accelerated Adjustment
5.        These measures have succeeded in curbing the deterioration of
the economic and financial situation. GDP growth became positive again in
1983 after having been negative in 1981 and 1982.  Nonetheless, in 1986,
because of a shortfall in imports, the rate of growth of the economy,
although positive (0.8 percent), lagged significantly behind the rate of
population  growth  (about three percent).   Thus,  although stabilization
efforts pursued since the early 1980s have helped reduce internal and
external disequilibria, they have not reestablished the conditions for
sustained revitalization  of  the economy.   In order  to hasten economic
recovery, the remaining distortions in the economy must be rectified.
6.        In the circumstances, the Government has asked the World Bank
Group to consider a series of Adjustment Credits in addition to the
traditional assistance with infrastructure, agricultural development,
inaustrial and social projects.   Such Credits would permit the economy
to reestablish a satisfactory growth rate while the Government continues
and intensifies the implementation of its program of economic reforms.
The Government has also requested the World Bank, acting within the
Consultative  Group,  to  support  its  external  financing  strategy,  of
mobilizing supplementary external resources in conjunction with the
rescheduling of its external debts.
7.        Resource  transfers  alone,  however,  will not be sufficient to
bring about economic recovery.   An improved allocation of resources, in
favor of the more productive foreign exchange earning sectors, is also
necessary.   Accordingly, the Government will accompany its stabilization
measures and its quest for increased financial support from the
international community with a policy directed toward increasing exports,
encouraging economic efficiency, stimulating competition by promoting
private sector initiative and adopting measures that will allow market
forces to play an increasing role in resource allocation, improving the
institutional environment, and reducing administrative impediments to
economic activity.
Reform Program
8.        In  the light of experience  gained during the preparation and
implementation of earlier stabilization and sector adjustment operations,
the program of reforms will focus on the following areas:
(a) import liberalization;
(b) price decontrol;
(c)  restructuring of public enterprises;
(d) reform of the banking system;
(e) public investment program.



- 52 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
9.        The thrust of the measures to be implemented will be toward
increasing the efficiency of the Malagasy economy, making it more sensitive
to market forces such as the exchange rate and prices, and orienting it
solidly toward exports. They should make it possible to alleviate balance
of payments constraints, stimulate domestic production of intermediate
goods, and encourage substitution of domestic for imported raw materials.
The principles that guided development of the adjustment program will
be retained so as to ensure its monitoring, evaluation, and careful
coordination of its various components.
10.       (a) Import Liberalization:   The Government's  objective is to
establish as soon as possible a system for allocating foreign exchange
through market forces,  leading to an equilibrium exchange  rate.   This
simple and unified system would be applied to all trade account
transactions.
11.       During  a  transition  period  beginning in September  1987,  the
current liberalized import regime will be extended to all imported goods
except petroleum products, rice, flour and edible oils.  Imports will be
funded by the Government's own foreign exchange resources, the proceeds of
the Sector Adjustment Credit for Industrial and Arade Policy, and the funds
allocated to certain categories of IDA Sector Adjustment Credits.   The
Government will do everything in its power to persuade donors to authorize
allocation of their credits intended as balance of payments assistance to
the  Liberalized  Import Regime.   The Regime  itself  will  include  the
following new features:  (i) elimination of the various import categories
of the present system; (ii) inclusion of capital goods; (iii) reduction of
protective import prohibitions; and (iv) automatic granting of import
licences within 48 hours of receipt of licence applications.
12.       As of June 1988, an Open General Licence (OGL) system for all
imports will be established.   Introduction of this system will be made
possible by virtue of successive devaluations of the official exchange rate
and unification of the import regime.
13.       Under these conditions, a reform of the import tariff regime will
be undertaken with a view to establishing a more coherent and uniform
system of effective protection.  To this end, a timetable has been drawn up
for moving toward a more uniform tariff structure consisting of fewer
tariff categories, raL.ging from a minimum tariff of 10 percent to a maximum
of 80 percent.  Exemptions are allowed on a restricted number of products
and specific tariff rates will be replaced by ad valorem rates. For some
commodities, a minimum tariff of five percent is set.   In addition, a
temporary import surcharge not exceeding 30 percent will be reduced
gradually until it is eliminated as a December 31, 1991. In June 1988, a
four-year program for reducing both average tariff protection and the
degree of variability around that average will be introduced, as will a
system for monitoring tariff adjustments.   In cases where the Government
establishes that the import of certain products into Madagascar is the
result of unfair trade practices, such as dumping, it may impose a special
import surcharge on them, to be decided after consultation and agreement
with the World Bank.



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
14.       (b) Price Decontrol:  The Government proposes to follow a prudent
fiscal and monetary policy which, together with the expected increase in
domestic production, should make It possible to contain the inflationary
pressures created by the various liberalization measures.   However,  in
order to ensure that resources are allocated toward the most productive
sectors, relative prices will need to be adjusted.   The Government will
therefore pursue and expand its policy of liberalizing industrial prices by
reducing to five the number of products whose ex-factory prices will still
require approval.  However, should it prove necessary to subsidize any of
these products, the cost involved will be shown in a transparent manner in
the  Treasury's  aggregate  operating  statements.    In  addition,  gradual
elimination of the system of controlling profit margins will commence in
January 1988, to be completed by the following June.
15.       Cc)  Restructuring  of  Public  Enterprises:         The  Government
reaffirms Its intention to restructure the entire public enterprise sector
in order to improve its economic and financial performance and ensure that
it is no longer a financial burden on the Government or the resources of
the economy in general.  Ways and means of accomplishing this objective
through   rehabilitation,   restructuring,   leasing,   divestiture,   and
liquidation  will  be  examined.    The  Government  has  already  begun
rehabilitating a group of 16 public enterprises, which are expected to be
fully restored to a sound financial footing in the course of 1987. A study
will be made of an additional group of ten enterprises using the same
approach as with the first group and focusing particularly on economic
issues; the corresponding rehabilitation plans are to be formulated fully
by December 31 this year.  Current policy on the management of the public
enterprises, particularly the role of the State as owner, and the functions
and powers of their governing bodies will be clarified in the interests of
more effective operational performance.
16.       However, a global action program will be necessary to ensure
continuing recovery In the public enterprise sector.   This will be based
on an analysis of the legal and institutional environment of the sector
together with a classification of enterprises according to their economic
viability. With this in mind, the Government intends to undertake a series
of studies during 1987 to generate proposals for a series of measures to
ensure the successful execution and follow-up of the program.
17.       (d) Banking Sector:  The difficult economic conditions that have
prevailed in recent years have had an adverse impact on many enterprises,
both public and private, with serious repercussions for the portfolios of
the  three  commercials  banks.    Since  1984, measures  to improve  their
financial situation, accompanied by the reinforcement of monetary policy
instruments and credit, as well control of the banking profession, have
been instituted.   The authorities propose to accelerate the effort to
improve the financial position of these banks.  To that end, a Board of
Directors including representatives of the private sector has already been
established for each bank.  In addition, the portfolio of each bank is to
be audited, as the first step toward development of an action plan for
portfolio restructuring.   Finally,  in  order to preclude any portfolio
deterioration in the future, a general audit of each bank will be
undertaken with a view to defining appropriate operating regulations and
systems, as well as management and monitoring procedures.



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
18.       The authorities will undertake a review of the entire financial
system, in particular to: Ci) assess the feasibility of creating a number
of new instruments to reinforce the present policy of maintaining real
positive interest rates and developing the financial market; (ii) determine
to what extent the effectiveness of the banking system can be improved if
it possesses new resources that enable the banks to fulfill their mission
better and if there is increased competition among them; (iii) determine
to what extent the existing financial institutions are capable of meeting
the economy's requirements and whether new institutions might be needed;
(iv) study the quality of bank loan guarantees and collateral and assess
their negotiability under the legislation and procedures now in force;
(v)  improve  banking  services  and  develop  new  financial  products
(specifically, export financing, housing and construction financing, and
leasing); (vi) mobilize domestic savings, especially in rural areas; and
(vii) reinforce the mechanism for Central Bank supervision of commercial
banks. Finally, the Central Bank will formulate a credit policy compatible
with the Government's macroeconomic goals and consistent with the
recommendations generated by the studies outlined above.
19.       (e) Public Investment Program (PIP):   The  1987 PIP has been
strengthened with regard to preparation, budget and follow-up, with the
result that it has improved in quality. The Government does not expect to
modify the overall volume of investment budgeted, and new projects will not
be funded until they have first been discussed with the Bank. During the
life of the Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit, the PIPs will be
examined in conjunction with the Bank and steps taken to clarify doubts
regarding the viability of  any  project.   As far as  the  1988 PIP is
concerned, further strengthening measures will be taken and the basis for
future improvementb in investment programming will be laid down:
(i) incorporation into the PIP of all public sector investment;
(ii)  investment  expenditures  proper  will  be  distinguished  from
development-related and recurrent expenditures.
20.       For 1989, the Government will introduce mandatory procedures for
the scrutiny of projects to be incorporated in the PIP and will reexamine
the content and duration of current program authorizations.  Measures will
also be taken to strengthen public expenditure programming and budgeting at
the sector level. The current program budgeting practices of the Ministry
of Agriculture will be evaluated in 1987 with a view to drawing lessons
that may be applicable to all Government departments. In 1988, tests will
be conducted of the program budgeting introduced in various ministries.
21.       (f) Social Support Measures:   The adjustment program aims at
bringing into play the means for sounder and more sustainable growth and at
reinforcing economic efficiency. Since the measures it incorporates will
not produce immediate benefits for the entire population, their initial
impact on living conditions must be distributed equitably among the various
strata of the population.   To that end,  the Government will introduce
social policy measures designed to mitigate the effects of adjustment on
the most precariously placed social groups. Accordingly:



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
(i) wage-earner purchasing power will be. reviewed to soften the
effects of price increases;
(ii) creation of small and medium enterprises and industries will be
accelerated so as to increase job opportunities;
(iii) a system of temporary welfare payments will be introduced to
cover losses of employment traceable to public enterprise
recovery programs;
(iv) a policy to bring down the cost of medication will be introduced;
(v) a housing construction program will be initiated rapidly.
22.       The public resources to fund these actions will be mobilized in a
manner consistent with the demands of the financial recovery program, and
the Treasury's aggregate operating statements will clearly identify any
subsidies required. In addition, efforts will be made to mobilize external
resources to back such social measures. The Bank has indicated that it can
assist the Government with a number of these programs.
For the Government of the
Democratic Republic
of Madagascar
The Minister of Finance
Antananarivo, Madagascar
May 29, 1987



4



