Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                           AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-32 MAG
           (Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      as ADMINISTRATOR of the
              SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
                        Dated July 10, 1987
                           AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-32 MAG
                 AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  10,  1987, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF  MADAGASCAR  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as  ADMINISTRATOR  of  the  SPECIAL  FACILITY FOR SUB-
SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Executive  Directors  of  the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolution
No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special Facility
for Sub-Saharan Africa (the  African  Facility) constituted by the
funds which shall  be  contributed  by  the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development  (the  Bank)  and  other donors and
administered  by  IDA,  acting  as  Administrator  of  the African
Facility,  for  the  purpose  of,  and  in  accordance  with,  the
provisions of the Resolution;
     (B)  the Administrator has received  a  letter, dated May 29,
1987, from the Borrower  describing  a  program of actions, objec-
tives and  policies  designed  to  improve  the  efficiency of the
Page  2
industry and trade  sector  of  Madagascar (hereinafter called the
Program) and declaring the  Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program;
     (C)  the Borrower has  also  requested  IDA  to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing  of the Program and, by an
agreement of even date herewith  between the Borrower and IDA (the
Development Credit Agreement),  IDA  is  agreeing  to provide such
assistance in an aggregate  principal  amount equivalent to twelve
million   five   hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 12,500,000) (the IDA Credit);
     (D)  the Borrower intends  to  contract  from  Saudi Fund for
Development a loan, under the  Special Joint Financing Program for
the Special African Facility,  in  an  amount equivalent to twelve
million Saudi Rials (SR 12,000,000) in support of the Program;
     (E)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Japan Overseas
Economic Cooperation  Fund  (hereinafter  called  OECF)  under the
Special  Joint  Financing   Agreement   for  the  Special  African
Facility a loan (the OECF  Loan)  in  an amount of one billion yen
(Y 1,000,000,000) to assist in supporting the Program on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the OECF Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF; and
     (F)  the Borrower intends  to  contract from the Association,
acting as Administrator on behalf  of  Japan a grant (the Japanese
Grant Agreement)  in  an  amount  equivalent  to  one  billion yen
(Y 1,000,000,000) (the Japanese Grant) in support of the Program;
     WHEREAS the  Administrator  has  agreed  on  the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to  extend  the African Facility Credit to
the Borrower upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section  1.01.   The   "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development Credit  Agreements"  of  the International Development
Association, dated January  1,  1985,  with  the modifications set
forth below (the General  Conditions)  constitute an integral part
of this Agreement:
     (a)  the  term  "Association",  when   used  in  the  General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as Administrator of  the  African  Facility,  except in the phrase
"member of the Association"  in  Sections  2.01  (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
     (b)  the terms "Development  Credit  Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are amended
to read  "African  Facility  Credit  Agreement", "African Facility
Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", respectively;
     (c)  the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  and  the  second
sentence of Section 5.01 are deleted;
     (d)  in Sections 6.O2 and  7.Ol, the term "Association" shall
also include the  International  Development Association acting in
its own capacity;
     (e)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
          " 'Project' means the  imports and other activities that
     may be financed out of  the  proceeds of the African Facility
     Credit pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to the
     Development Credit Agreement."; and
Page  3
     (f)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
     such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
     Borrower and the International Development Association acting
     as Administrator of the  African Facility, the Borrower shall
     prepare and furnish  to  the  Association  a  report, of such
     scope and in  such  detail  as  the International Development
     Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
     program referred to in  the  Preamble to the African Facility
     Credit Agreement, the  performance  by  the  Borrower and the
     International  Development  Association  of  their respective
     obligations under the  African  Facility Credit Agreement and
     the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.".
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Part II member  of  IDA"  means  a  member  of IDA with
respect to which the terms  and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries whose
names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those Articles;
     (b)  "Development Credit  Agreement"  means  the agreement of
even date herewith between the  Borrower  and IDA for the Project,
as such agreement may be amended  from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions  Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of IDA,  dated  January  1,  1985,  as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement;
     (c)  "Special Account B"  means  the  account  referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "BNI" means Bankin'ny Indostria;
     (e)  "BTM" means Bankin'ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra; and
     (f)  "BFV" means Banky Fampandrosoana ny Varotra.
                            ARTICLE II
                    The African Facility Credit
     Section  2.01.  The  Administrator  agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions  set forth or referred to in
the  African  Facility  Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in various
currencies equivalent to  fifty-two  million  two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 52,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of the African Facility Credit
may be  withdrawn  from  the  African  Facility  Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made, as such  Schedule  may  be amended from time to
time.
     (b)  Withdrawals shall be  made  only  on account of expendi-
tures for  goods  produced  in,  or  services  supplied  from, the
territories of: (i)  any  Part  II  member  of  IDA;  and (ii) any
country designated by the  Administrator as meeting the provisions
set forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
     (c)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
cause its Central Bank to  open  and maintain in dollars a special
account in a commercial bank  on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Administrator. Deposits into,  and payments out of, Special
Account B shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1989,
or such  later  date  as  the  Administrator  shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly  notify  the  Borrower  of such later
date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower  shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate  of  one-half  of  one  percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount  of  the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to  time.  The  commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty  days  after  the  date  of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as IDA  shall  reasonably  request;  (ii)  without restrictions of
any kind imposed by,  or  in  the  territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified  in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General  Conditions  or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may, from time to time, be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall  pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of  one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the amount withdrawn  from  the African Facility Credit Account
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African  Facility  Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each January 15 and  July 15, commencing July 15, 1997,
and ending January 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 15,  2007, shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be  one  and  one-half  percent  (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The  Borrower  and the Administrator shall,
from time to time, at the  request of either party, exchange views
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Administrator, for its review and comment, a report
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the Program, in such
detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall  be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  By  September  30,  1988,  the  Borrower shall
complete: (i) an action  program  for the rehabilitation of public
sector enterprises; and (ii)  a  study  on the financial sector of
the Borrower. To that  end,  the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Administrator.  Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with the principles
and procedures satisfactory to  the  Administrator on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank  as  Executing Agency" published by the Bank
Page  5
in August 1981.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall  take all necessary actions
for the implementation of the  rehabilitation plans referred to in
paragraph 1(d) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of  the  proceeds  of the Credit. Thereafter,
the Borrower shall take  appropriate action for the implementation
of such rehabilitation plans.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               Special Account B, for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Administrator;
         (ii)  furnish to the Administrator  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Administrator such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the  Administrator  shall,  from time to
               time, reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Administrator has received the audit report for the
               fiscal year in which  the  last withdrawal from the
               African  Facility  Credit  Account  was  made,  all
               records   (contracts,   orders,   invoices,  bills,
               receipts  and  other   documents)  evidencing  such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable  the   Administrator's   representatives  to
               examine such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section, and that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Events of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  An event has  occurred  which  shall  make it improbable
that the Program, or a  significant  part thereof, will be carried
Page  6
out.
     (b)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)   the right of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                      proceeds of the Development Credit, the OECF
                      Loan or  the  Japanese  Grant,  made  to the
                      Borrower for  the  financing  of the Program
                      shall  have  been  suspended,  cancelled  or
                      terminated in whole or  in part, pursuant to
                      the terms of  the  Development Credit Agree-
                      ment,  the  OECF   Loan   Agreement  or  the
                      Japanese Grant Agreement; or
                (B)   the  Development  Credit  or  the  OECF Loan
                      shall have become  due  and payable prior to
                      the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
                if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
                the Administrator that:
                (A)   such  suspension,  cancellation, termination
                      or prematuring is not  caused by the failure
                      of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of  its
                      obligations under such agreement; and
                (B)   adequate funds for the Program are available
                      to the Borrower from  other sources on terms
                      and conditions  consistent  with the obliga-
                      tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of  this  Agreement  shall  occur,   subject  to  the  proviso  of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of  the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled;
     (b)  the  Borrower  shall  have:  (i)  made  its  liberalized
import regime applicable to  the  importation  of all spare parts,
raw materials, non-food  consumer  goods  and equipment goods; and
(ii)  eliminated  the  separate  categories  from  its liberalized
import regime;
     (c)  the Borrower shall have employed the consultants for the
carrying out of the studies  referred  to  in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement; and
     (d)  the Borrower  shall  have  freed  ex-factory  prices for
soap, candles, condensed milk, edible  oil  and baby food from all
restrictions.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.03. In the  event  that  the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the  functions  of IDA as Administrator of
the African Facility pursuant  to  paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
Page  7
the  Administrator  may,  by  notice  to  the  Borrower, designate
another party which, on the  date  specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of  the  rights and obligations of the Adminis-
trator under this Agreement in  accordance with the Resolution and
such decision of  the  Executive  Directors,  as specified in such
notice.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as  representative  of  the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere aupres de la Pråsidence
            de la Råpublique chargå des
            Finances et de l'Economie
          Antananarivo, Madagascar
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFIN                           22339
                Antananarivo
     For the Association:
          Administrator of the African Facility
          (International Development Association)
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                   By /s/ Leon Rajaobelina
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
                   FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
                   By /s/ M. Ismail Serageldin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
                      African Facility Credit
1.     Subject to the provisions set  forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of  the  Credit  may  be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for  expenditures  made  (or,  if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required  during  the  execution of the Program
and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.     Notwithstanding the  provisions  of  paragraph  1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
       (a)  expenditures for goods included in the following SITC1
groups or sub-groups:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco,    unmanufactured
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
_________________________
1/ "SITC" means  the  United Nations Standard International Trade
   Classifications, 1986 Revision (SITC, Revision 3).
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
                 718.7                  Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts     thereof,    fuel
                                        elements     (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
                 897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
      971                               Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
Page  9
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose; and
     (g)  expenditures for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts  to  the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out  of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit:
     (A)  after the  aggregate  of  the  proceeds  of  the African
Facility Credit withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account
and the total amount  of  such  commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR  21,000,000,  unless  the Administrator shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement: (i) with  the progress achieved by the Borrower
in the carrying out  of  the  Program;  and  (ii) that the actions
described in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been
taken; and
     (B)  after the  aggregate  of  the  proceeds  of  the African
Facility  Credit  withdrawn  from   the  African  Facility  Credit
Account, and  the  total  amount  of  such  commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 33,975,000, unless the Administrator
shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange  of  views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement:  (i) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the
actions described in paragraph 2  of  Schedule 3 to this Agreement
have been taken.
4.   If, after any exchange of  views  under the provisions of the
preceding paragraph, the Administrator  is  not satisfied and this
situation shall not be  rectified  by  the Borrower within 90 days
after notice thereof by  the Administrator, then the Administrator
may, by notice to the  Borrower,  cancel the amount of the African
Facility  Credit  unwithdrawn  from  the  African  Facility Credit
Account or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in  May  1985 (the Guidelines). For purposes
of the African Facility  Credit  Agreement,  all references in the
Guidelines to  the  Bank  and  to  loans  shall  be  deemed  to be
references  to  the  Administrator  and  to  the  African Facility
Credit, respectively, subject to the following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
Page  10
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical  journal  of  wide  international  circu-
               lation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in  the Guidelines that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $2,000,000 each  and  for  proprietary  spare  parts shall be
awarded on the basis of  the  normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the  Borrower  shall  furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal  of  funds  from  the  African Facility Credit
Account in respect of such  contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the  analysis  of  the respective bids and
recommendations for award,  a  description  of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed  and  such  other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the  Borrower  shall  furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal  of  funds  from  the  African Facility Credit
Account in respect thereof,  such documentation and information as
the Administrator  may  reasonably  request  to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of Special Account B,  the copies of such contract or
the documentation  and  the  information  to  be  furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the  provisions  of paragraph 3 or para-
graph 4 of this Schedule, as  the  case may be, shall be furnished
to the Association as  part  of  the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on  account  of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the African Facility Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                   Conditions of Tranche Release
1.   (a)  the Borrower shall  have  eliminated all import prohibi-
          tions for protective purposes  in a manner acceptable to
          the Administrator;
     (b)  the Borrower  shall  have  simplified  and  reformed the
          import tariff  system  in  a  manner  acceptable  to the
          Administrator;
Page  11
     (c)  the Borrower shall have  taken all necessary measures to
          reduce the number of goods  for which profit margins are
          controlled by the Borrower from 16 to 8;
     (d)  the Borrower shall  have  completed rehabilitation plans
          for ten public enterprises;  such plans to be acceptable
          to the Administrator;
     (e)  the Borrower shall  have  prepared portfolio rehabilita-
          tion plans  for  BNI,  BTM  and  BFV,  acceptable to the
          Administrator;
     (f)  the Borrower shall have furnished the Administrator with
          a public investment program  for 1988, acceptable to the
          Administrator; and
     (g)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
          OECF Loan  Agreement  and  the  Japanese Grant Agreement
          shall have been fulfilled.
2.   The Borrower shall have:
     (a)  adopted a four-year program of tariff reform, acceptable
          to the  Association,  to  reduce  the  average level and
          dispersion of import tariffs;
     (b)  implemented  rules  and  procedures,  acceptable  to the
          Administrator, to  be  applied  by  its  central bank in
          supervising the banking sector;
     (c)  implemented the  portfolio  restructuring  plan for BNI,
          BTM and BFV;
     (d)  introduced an open  general  licensing system acceptable
          to the Administrator; and
     (e)  taken all necessary  measures  to eliminate all restric-
          tions on profit margins.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the execution
of the Program and  to  be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the
African Facility  Credit  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means an amount equi-
valent to $15,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the African Facility
Credit Account and deposited into  the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the  Administrator  shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account  B  shall  be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to replenish
Special Account B may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the  Administrator  shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw  from  the  African Facility Credit Account
and deposit into Special Account  B  such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
Page  12
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator requests
for replenishment of Special  Account  B  at such intervals as the
Administrator shall specify. On  the  basis  of such requests, the
Administrator shall  withdraw  from  the  African  Facility Credit
Account and deposit into Special  Account  B such amounts as shall
be required  to  replenish  Special  Account  B  with  amounts not
exceeding the amount of  payments  made  out  of Special Account B
for Eligible Expenditures.  All  such  deposits shall be withdrawn
by the Administrator from  the  African Facility Credit Account in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting  the  request  for  such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by  the Borrower out of Special Account
B  for  which  the  Borrower  requests  replenishment  pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or  at  the time of such request, such
documents and other  evidence  as  the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing  that  such  payment  was  made for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  Special Account B shall be made
by the Administrator when either of the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Administrator  shall  have  determined that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the  African  Facility Credit Account
               in accordance with the  provisions  of Article V of
               the General Conditions  and  paragraph  (a) of Sec-
               tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the African Facil-
               ity Credit,  minus  the  amount  of any outstanding
               special commitment  entered  into  by  the Adminis-
               trator pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Program, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of the African Facil-
ity Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to  the extent that the Administrator shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
Special Account B as of the  date  of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall  have  determined at any time
that any payment out of  Special  Account  B: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice  from  the Administrator, deposit into
Special Account B  (or,  if  the  Administrator  shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Administrator  into Special Account B shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Administrator shall  have  determined at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  Special  Account  B  will not be
required to  cover  further  payments  for  Eligible Expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly  upon  notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator  such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.
Page  13
