OFFICIAL
on      MFNTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1834 HAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      St\ \            , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1834 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       SL41 y    1           , 1987, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Brrrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
May 29, 1987, from the Borrower describing the program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to improve the efficiency of the
industry and trade policy of Madagascar (hereinafter called the
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association, acting
as Administrator of a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa
(the African Facility) established by its Executive Directors by
Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, to provide additional
assistance in support of the Program, and by an agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association as
Administrator of the African Facility (the African Facility Credit
Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to fifty-two million
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 52,200,000);
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from Saudi Fund for
Development a loan, under the Special Joint Financing Program for
the Special African Facility, in an amount equivalent to twelve
million Saudi Rials (SR 12,000,000) in support of the Program;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from Japan Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (hereinafter called OECF) under the
Special Joint Financing Agreement for the Special African
Facility a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount of one billion yen
(Y 1,000,000,000) to assist in supporting the Program on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the OECF Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF; and
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the Association
acting as Administrator on be.alf of Japan a grant (the Japanese
Grant Agreement) in an amount equivalent to one billion Yen
(Y 1,000,000,000) (the Japanese Grant) in support of the Program;


﻿- 2 -
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SectiorL 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters, dated March 3, 1987, and March 20,
1987, between the Borrower and the Association;
(c) "BNI" means Bankin'ny Indostria;
(d) "BTM" means Bankin'ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra; and
(e) "BFV" means Banky Fampandrosoana ny Varotra.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
cause its central bank to open and maintain in dollars a special
account (Special Account A) in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and out-
standing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance sh-ll thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit no+ -ithdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may, from time to
time, be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15, commencing July 15, 1997, and ending
January 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on January 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5 -
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, for its review and comment, a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. By September 30, 1988, the Borrower shall
complete: (i) an action program for the rehabilitation of public
sector enterprises; and (ii) a study on the financial sector of
the Borrower. To that end, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with the principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all appropriate actions
for the implementation of the rehabilitation plans referred to in
paragraph 1 (d) of Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including those for
Special Account A, for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-6-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall, from time to
time, reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) An event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.


﻿-7-
(b)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit, the
OECF Loan or the Japanese Grant, made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Program
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the African Facility Credit
Agreement, the OECY Loan Agreement or the
Japanese Grant Agreement; or
(B)   the African Facility Credit or the OECF Loan
shall have become due and payable prior to
the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and
(B)   adequate funds for the Program are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions -0 the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 8 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
African Facility Credit Agreement, other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) the Borrower shall have: (i) made its liberalized import
regime applicable to the importation of all spare parts, raw
materials, non-food consumer goods and equipment goods; and
(ii) eliminated the separate categories from its liberalized
import regime;
(c) the Borrower shall have employed the consultants for the
carrying out of the studies referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower shall have freed ex-factory prices for
soap, candles, condensed milk, edible oil and baby food from all
restrictions.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la Pr6sidence
de la R6publique chargd des
des Finances et de 1'Economie
Antananarivo
Madagascar


﻿-9-
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                             22489
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  246423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By/Sf      Leon         Rj44     o  be inC
/I           Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/SI C'(. IMsmail SeMe)l')
AcAir%  Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Imported                 11,700,000         100% of foreign
Goods and                                   expenditures
Materials
(2) Consultants'                300,000         100%
Services
(3) Refunding of                500,000         Amount due pur-
Project Pre-                                suant to Section
paration                                    2.02 (c) of this
Advance                                     Agreement
TOTAL               12.500.000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC1
groups or sub-groups:
1/ "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International Trade
Classifications, 1986 Revision (SITC, Revision 3).


﻿- 11 -
Group      Sub-group           Description of Items
112          -               Alcoholic beverages
121          -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122          -               Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing)
tobacco substitues)
525          -               Radioactive and associated
materials
667          -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
718.7             Nuclear reactors and parts
thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated
for nuclear reactors
897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                          Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(c) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(d) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;


﻿- 12 -
(e) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose; and
(f) expenditures fEr petroleum products, rice, edible oil
and flour.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawal shall be made, and no commitment shall be entered into, to
pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of expenditures
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Category 1 in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule:
(A) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from that Category and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 3,900,000,
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (i) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; and (ii) that the actions described in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken; and
(B) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from that Category and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 7,800,000,
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in SeCtion 3.01 of this Agreement: (i) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; and (ii) that the actions described in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
5.   If, after any exchange of views under the provisions of the
preceding paragraph, the Association is not satisfied and this
situation shall not be rectified by the Borrower within 90 days
after notice thereof by the Association, then the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the amount of the Credit
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account or any part thereof.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one news-
paper of general circulation in the Borrower's country and,
in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $2,000,000 each and for proprietary spare parts shall be
awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a c'ntract are to be made out of
the proceeds of Special Account A, the copies of such contract or
the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph
4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Conditions of Tranche Release
1.   (a) the Borrower shall have eliminated all import
prohibitions, for protective purposes, in a manner
acceptable to the Association;
(b) the Borrower shall have simplified and reformed the
import tariff system in a manner acceptable to the
Association;
(c) the Borrower shall have taken all necessary measures to
reduce the number of goods for which profit margins are
controlled by the Borrower from 16 to 8;
(d) the Borrower shall have completed rehabilitation plans
for ten public enterprises; such plans to be acceptable
to the Association;
(e) the Borrower shall have prepared portfolio rehabilita-
tion plans for BNI, BTM and BFV acceptable to the
Association;
(f) the Borrower shall have furnished the Association with a
public investment program for 1988, acceptable to the
Association; and
(g) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
OECF Loan Agreement and the Japanese Grant Agreement
shall have been fulfilled.
2.   The Borrower shall have:
(a) adopted a four-year program of tariff reform, acceptable
to the Association, to reduce the average level and
dispersion of import tariffs;
(b) implemented rules and procedures, acceptable to the
Association, to be applied by its central bank in super-
vising the banking sector;
(c) implemented the portfolio restructuring plan for BNI,
BTM and BFV;


﻿- 16 -
(d) introduced an open general licensing system acceptable
to the Association; and
(e) taken all necessary measures to eliminate all restric-
tions on profit margins.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiv-
alent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of Special Account A shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account A may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Special Account A such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account A at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account A such amounts as shall be required to
replenish Special Account A with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments made out of Special Account A for Eligible Expen-
ditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.


﻿- 18 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account:
A for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account A shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Program, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account A as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account A: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
Special Account A (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment


﻿- 19 -
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into Special Account A shall be made
urtil the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account A will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


