Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repoit No. 7315
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1667-UNI)
June 24, 1988
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADP            Agrictltural Development Project
APMEPU         Agricultural Projects Monitor'ng Evaluation and
Planning Unit
BADP           Bida Agricultural Development Project
FACU           Federal Agriculture Coordinating Unit
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IITA           International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
PCR            Project Completion Report
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SFEM           Second-Tier Foreign Exchange Market



FOR OffICUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washigton. O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofie (d ovt4waWi
Opert CA  dImU-Glal
June 24, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Nigeria Bida Agricultural
Development ProJect (Loan 1667-UNI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the Overview prepared
by the Africa Regional Office of the report entitled "Project Completion
Report - Nigeria Bida Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1667-UNI)."
The PCR, prepared by the Borrower, is too large for general circulation
but can be obtained from OED files on request. No further evaluation of
this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has been made.
Attachment
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
This document hu a mefIttd dibution and may be used b rcipiens onl in the pC
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclese without World Bsanksthdti



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1667-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   ........... . vv**        
Basic Data Sheet ......................i
Evaluation Summary ..........          *         .... ...... vi
OVERVIEW OF THE BORROWER'S PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A.   General ................                              1
The Technical Basis of the Project ............ 1
B.  Extension and Research .................3..... too3
C.   Long Term Sustainability ........................-    4
D.   The Viability of Government Run Commercial
Services                       ........a...... 5
E.  The Problem of Monitoring Project Interventions ... 5
F.   The Impact of the Project and the Rate of
Return                                            6
G.   Lessons from the Project                              9
Attachment - Comments on the Economic Analysis                11
Map - IBRD 13306R
NOTE:
BORROWER'S PCR
The PCR was prepared by the Borrower's Agricultural Projects Monitoring
Evaluation and Planning Unit but is too large for general circulation.
It can be obtained from OED files on request.
This document has a resticted distribution and may d e u  by ecipients only in the petformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherw%se be disclosed witbout World Bank authorzation.



- i -
PROJECT CCHILETION REPORT
NIGERIA: BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1667-UNI)
PREFACE
The Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Bida Agricultural
Development Project was prepared by the Agricultural Projects Monitoring,
Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU) of the Federal Government of Nigeria.
It covers the Loan 1667-UNI for which an amount of US$23.0 million was
approved in March 1979.  The loan was closed on June 30, 1986, following a
one-year extension.
The PCR consists of  five volumes  and  is  too bulky for general
distribution.  The  Evaluation  Summary provides  an  outline  of its main
findings. A copy of the PCR is available for reference with OED. The PCR
provides a  detailed  sanlysis  of  each  of the project's components and
compares performance with the expectations of the appraisal report (SAR No.
1912-UNI). The original esttaates of the rate of return contained in the
PCR were based on assumptions regarding future patterns of fertilizer sales
which were somesnhat  out  of  line with  experience  elsewhere in Nigeria.
Following  discussions  with  Bank  staff, APIMEPU  agreed  to modify this
assumption and correspondence on this point is attached.
The IBRD Overview of the PCR was prepared by the Africa Regional
Office to draw out the main  issues  deriving from this project which have
implications for the ongoing agricultural lending program in Nigeria.
A copy of the draft Overview was sent to the Borrower on February
17, 1988, for comments. No comments were received.
The project has not been subjected to an audit by the Operations
Evaluation Department.



-ii -
NIGERIA
BIDA AGRICULTURALDEELOPUENT PROJECT
(Loan 1667-UNI)
Basic Date Shhot
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal      Actual or Estimated     Actual as X of
Estimatei
Project Cost (Naire Million)          4 4.                 62.4                  125
Loan Amount (v a MtillIon)            23.1                 28.1
Date Board Approval                   8/26/79              8/26/79                -
Date Effectivenose                    6/13/79              4/25/80                -
Closing Date                          6/86/85              1/6/8?7
Economic Rate of Return X              16                   9.8                   as
Number of Direct Ben.ficiaies        6s.eee farm families n.e
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY80 FY81  FYS2  FY83   FY84  FY85  FY80  FY87
Appraisal Estimate (US1  Million)    2.0 e  .5  14.1  13.8  22.0  23.5   -       -
Actual (US5 Million)                  e   5.19   9.63 16.18  16.52 26.52 21.99 28.eo
Actual as l Estimete!                 6   GI    76   a3       84     9    9     1
Date of Final Disbursement          January so, 1987
STAFF INPUTS (Staff Woekso
FY77  FY70  FY79  FY60  FY81  FY62  FY6t  FY84  FY85  FY80 FYM7  TOTAL
Prappraisal       1.  9.6      -     -       -     -     -      -     -     -      - 4.
Appraisal          -  92.9   6.1     -       -     -            -     _                990
Negotiations       -    -    2.6     -       -     -     -      -     -     -     -    2.5
SupervIsion        -    -    0.6    6.2   14.8  8.1   9.8    6.2   4.7   8.6  1. 8  C.4
81.0 101.9  9.2    6.6   14.8   6.1   9.8    6.2   4.7   8.6  1.3 196.9
MISSION DATA
Mission   Date       No. of    Monday*   Speeiallsetlons   Performnce Trend Type of
(mo/yr)   Persons   In Flold  Represented !/    Rating W   g/       Problems
Icentfifcat.ion   16/76  n.a
Preparation       2/77  n.e.
Appraisal      9-10/77    7       166
Supervision 1     7/79    2         6             *,e               2        -        -
Supervision 2    12/79    1         2             *                 1        1        -
Supervision 8     2/60    2         6             e,d               2        2        a
Supervision 4  9-10/80    2         6             a,c               2        2        F
Supervision S     2/61    2        10             c,d               2        1        F
Supervision 6   6-9/81    8        12             *,C,d             2        1        T
Supervision 7     5/82    2        10             *,d               2        2      F,T
Supervision 6     2/68    2        14             a,b               a        2        F
Supervision 9     9/68    1         6                               a 8      2        F
Supervision 10    8/84    1         5             a                 2        1      F,O
Supervision 11   10/84    1         6             *                 a        2      F,M
Supervision 12 6-7/86    2         16             *,o               2 I/     -        F
Total               28       UT
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrowor                            - Federal Repubile of Nigeria
Executing Agency                    - Bids Monageent Unit under Niger
State Ministry of Natural Resources
Follow-on Project                   - MULTIStATE ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (MSADP II)
Fiscal Ier of Borrowfr              - April-March
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviations)    - Naire (N)
Appraisal Year Average              - US81.90 *a N.64
Intervening Years  Average          - US61.6   NO .67
Completion Year Average (Year 1968) - US81.16 a N1.85
!/     a = Agriculturist; b = Agric. Economist; c a Finaxcial Analyst;
d a Irrigation Engineer; 0 a Other.
k/    1 = problem froe or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems;
8 a major problems.
c/    1 * Improving; 2 a stationary
O/    F a Financial; M a Management; T a Technical; 0   Otehor.
g/    Nnw Form 690 In use that shows rating for overall status.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1667-UNI)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.       This is the sixth of a series of agricultural development projects
which the Bank has supported in Nigeria, as a part of its overall strategy
for development in the rural sector. In common with other ADP's in Nigeria
the project included agricultural services, input supplies and rural
infrastructure components. These last ir,cluded irrigation development
which was a new departure for this family of projects.
Obiectives
2.       The project was expected to (a) increase the production of about
54,000 ha of crops through the provision of extension advice, seeds,
fertilizer, credit and a tractor hire service; (b) establish a farm
management advisory service for 500 commercial f'rms; tc) conduct onfarm
trials; (d) improve 2,600 ha of existing irrigation and develop 2,600 ha of
new irrigation; (e) construct 650 km and maintain 1,000 km of feeder roads;
(f) construct stores, offices and staff houses; (g) establish a new
management unit for agricultural development in the area; and (h) provide
consultant services.
Imlementation Experience
3.       The project made a good start and many activities, including staff
recruitment were initiated before the official starting date of July 1,
1980. The project was due to be completed in five years but in the event
it was extended for a further year.
4.       Total costs of the project were 1191 of appraisal estimates with
96Z of the Bank loan being drawn down. The Federal Government provided 891
of its expected contribution and the State Government achieved the same
level. Despite the good overall record of local funding there were a
number of serious delays in the release of the funds which had an adverse
impact on project implementation. The balance between funding and costs
was made up by loans and overdrafts. The main difference between SAR
estimates and actual expenditures lay in the balance between capital and
current expenditures. Capital costs were 841 of SAR estimates whilst
recurrent costs were 1601 of the SAR estimates.
5.       The agricultural services did not perform as expected.  The
extension and research components appear to have had little impact on
farming practice and the seed omponent was poorly executed and sold only a
imail portion of what had been estimated in the SAR. The commercial
services sold considerably more fertilizer than had been expected and this
is the main achievement of the project. In common with other services



-iv -
(tractor hire, seed production, land clearing) the commercial department
made heavy losses, and was unable to achieve the viability envisaged in the
SAR. The tcactor hire unit covered only lZ of its costs and the seed unit
only 82.
6.       On tLea infrastructural side the project was more successful and
the irrigation development achieved 69Z of its target and the road units a
similar level. More buildings were constructed than originally planned.
The figure for farm service centres was well over double the SAR estimates
and many of these proved to be uneconomic and contributed to the losses of
the input sales section.
Results
7.       The project had little impact on the practices of farmers.  No
accurate survey data exist to monitor yields and production but given the
lack of impact of research, extension and seed supplies there is no basis
for supposing that the SAR expecLations of a doubling of yields was
achieved. The main benefit of the project derives from the increased sale
of fertilizer, with a further benefit from irrigation. On the basis of
these two activities the PCR originally estimated a sate of return of 18Z
for the project. The underlying assumption of this vas that the government
would continue the current high levels of fertilizer subsidy and that the
incremental sales achieved under the project were solely due to project
initiatives and would continue at the highest level reached for a further
twenty years after project closure. After further discussions with the
government it vas agreed that the estimates of future uptake of fertilizer
resulting solely from project initiatives be reduced to 25Z of peak sales,
and that costs be included for the future maintenance of irrigation
developments. With these adjustments the rate of return is barely
positive.
Sustainability
8.       The continuation of the main agricu;tural achievement of the
project, the increased uptake of fertilizer, is heavily dependent on
government subsidy which at present stands at approximately 80X. The
future viability of the irrigation development is dependent on maintenance.
The project was not able to elicit farmer support for maintenance or water
charges and local government does not have the resources to provide free
maintenance. The roads faced a similar situation at the time of project
closing but a new national concern for rural road maintenance may improve
on this situation. The Bank is preparing to fund a follow on project in
the area and government anticipates that this will assist to sustain the
initial project's developments.
Findings and Lessons
(1) Infrastructural development is easier to implement than a
program to change farmer practices, but then poses serious
problems of sustainability;
(2) the provision of staff, housing and vehicles do not by
themselves create a productive research and extension system.



- v.-
Effective organlsation, good motivation, a sense of farmers
perceptions and good technology are also essential; and
(3) it is difficult for government run services to be
commercially viable even vhen made seriL-autonomous.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 1667-UNI
Bank Overview of the Bida Agricultural Development Proiect
Completion Report which was Prepared by the
Nigerian Federal Ministry of Agriculture
A. General
1.        The Completion Report was prepared by the Federal Government's
Agricultural Projects Monitoiring Evaluation and Planning Unit (APWEPU).
The report consists of a main volume and twenty-one annexes covering
various aspects of the project. The main report provides a good overall
coverage of the project, is well structured, compares achievements in each
section with the expectations of the staff appraisal report and offers an
analysis of lessons learned for each major component. The annexes were
prepared by a wide range of stsff from APMEPU and the Federal Agriculture
Coordinating Unit (FACU) and as would be expected under those circumstances
are of varying quality and usefulness. Given that adequate coverage of
project performance is provided in the PCR this overview will focus on
those issues which impinge upon future planning for agricultural
development in Nigeria. These include the technical basis of the project,
extension and research, long term sustainability, the viability of
government run commercial services, the problems of monitoring project
interventions, the Impact of the project and the rate of return. From
these isitues some lessons will be drawn for further Bank interventions in
the sector. The only point at which this overview diverges widely from the
conclusions of the PCR is on the rate of return and the reasons for this
are covered in paragraphs 29 and 30.
2.        This is the sixth agricultural development project in Nigeria for
which completion reports have been prepared.  In line with its predecessors
(Gombe, Gusau, Funtua, Lafia and Ayangba), the project was expected to have
a broad Impact on the production of all the crops grown in the project area
by using a combination of technical initiatives to bring about a doubling
*           of most crop yields.  In the event the project followed the pattern of the
earlier projects and its impact was mainly through its engineering and
fertilizer distribution activities, resulting in littli general change in
*           farming practices or production by the majority of farming families in the
project area. The engineering activities included irrigation development
as well as roads which was a new departure for this family of projects.
The Technical Basis of the Pro1ect
3.        The benefits from the project were mostly expected to derive from
major increases in yield from five crops, two of which, rice and yams, were
to provide half of the total project benefits. The crops and yield
expectations (in tons per ha) were as follows:



-2
Rice formal irrigation              2.5  to  3.5
farmer scheme                  1.6  to  2.5
other                           .75 to  1.6
Yams                                5    to  9
Cotton                               .3  to   .9
Sorghum                              .6  to  1.2
M4aize                               .6  to  1.5
The increases were expected to result from the use of imlproved seeds,
higher plant populations, the use of insecticides, fungicides and fertiliz-
er, improved land preparation, water control and weeding, more timely farm
operations and improved post harvest practices. In addition some 301 of
the area to be improved would also use mechanical cultivation and
herbicides. The basic underlying assumption of the project strategy was
that farming families had surplus labour available at critical points in
the farming year which could be most profitably used in intensifying
production per unit area of land and that there was a range of simple
technologies available which would provide dramatic increases in yield.  In
a region with abundant land resources (only 121 of the project area under
crops) the proposed strategy of intensify-l g land use does not appear to
have found favour with farmers. As with all the previous ADP's the main
input which gained popularity was fertilizer. This was sold with a sub-
stantial subsidy and enabled farmers to increase production with little
additional labour requirement.
4.        The proposed technology for increasing yam yields, the main
expected source of non irrigated crop benefits, illustrates the problems of
inappropriate intensification of land use. Yield increases were to derive
from a doubling of the seed rate as well as from the use of fertilizer and
other agro chemicals. Seed yams are the most costly input in yam produc-
tion and the higher the seed rate per hectare the lower the production per
seed planted. Where land is not a constraint farmers are interested in
maximiring returns to their scarcest resource (seed yams) rather than to
abundant land. The extension message on this crop was not adopted and the
expected project benefits were not forthcoming.
5.        Another major initiative which was not successful was the wide-
spread introduction of new planting material. The SAR and actual figures
for seed production in year 5 are as follows (in tons):
Crop                SAR                  Actual
Sorghum             108                    0
Rice                520                    2.7
Maize                56                   72
Groundnut           110                    0
Cowpea               19                    0.1
Larger quantities were produced in the earlier years of the project but
there appeared to be little demand from farmers and the seed was either
given to the National Seed Service or sold for food.



-3-
6.        Given the prominence which the provislin of improved seed has
received in the planning of agricultural projects in Nigeria, and the low
adoption rates on both Bida and other ADPs, this subject deserves detailed
scrutiny. There appear to have been three factors which limited farmer
demand for "improved" seed even when sold with a 90% subsidy. The first is
the actual genetic potential of the variety to produce a plant which is
perceived by farmers to be more acceptable than that which they 4re
currantly growing, this includes such factors as date of maturity, ability
to combine wit}: intercrops and keeping and cooking quality, as well as
yield. Many of the currently released varieties do not appear to appeal to
farmers on all these counts. The second factor concerns the performance of
the actual seed sample which the farmer purchases.  It is difficult fox a
large scale operation which has to harvest the entire crop for seed and use
bulk storage, to compete on quality grounds with a farmer who is carefully
selecting a dozen plants from a whole field and having to store only a
small quantity of seed. There is a tendency on the part of planners to
assume that purchased seed is inherently better than home kept seed and the
bases of this assumption require closer scrutiny. The third factor is the
advertising and marketing of seed. The PCR is critical of the quality of
presentation and marketing of the seed which was produced at Bida and
claims that improvements on this score would have resulted in more wide-
spread farmer uptake. This certainly deserves attention but good marketing
cannot be expected to overcome problems of inferior seed.
7.        In essence the technology proposed for increasing productivity
was not based on an accurate analysis of the actual constraints limiting
output and in consequence the project had little impact on the overall
farming system.
B. Extension and Research
8.        The completion report is critiral of both the extension and
reEearch activities of the project. One of its main criticisms follows the
seme line at that raised for the five previous projects, which is that
extension staff cannot be expected to influence farmers if they are at-
tempting to pass on inappropriate messages. In addition to this fundamen-
tal weakness the report highlights the fact that supervisory staff did not
follow their schedule of visiting village level workers and that the
quality of the in-service training which they provided was poor. Village
extension agents had 'lmited contact with farmers and it appears that they
provided no effective reedback to managers on the reasons for the lack of
farmer response to their messages. The project demonstrated that simply
increasing the staff to farmer ratio, reorganizing the service and
providing mobility do not necessarily lead to improved performance in the
absence of staff motivation. This is best stimulated by the effectiveness
which derives from providing a service based on a genuine understanding of
and response to farmers constraints.



- 4 -
9.        The weakness of the extension service derived in part from the
weakness of research support. The project established close links with
three national research institutes and IITA. A scientist from IITA was
posted to Bida and there was no shortage of funds for transport or trials.
No other ADP has had such a close link with such a range of research
stations. Despite these links and the large number of trials which were
carried out over six years there was little information developed which had
any impact on farmers practices or production. The completion report
identifies the reason for this as being that "the focus of BADP's research
program was influenced more by the aggressiveness of the research insti-
tutes than by the identified location specific problems." (Annex 3 page
14). In consequence few of the hundreds of trials carried out in
co-operation with the four research institutes were directly linked to the
major constraints faced by farmers. Bida provides a lesson that linking
extension projects with research institutes does not of itself lead to the
provision of effective answers to farmers problems in the absence of an in
depth appreciation of those problems by the staff involved.
C. Long Term Sustainability
10.       The appraisal report proposed that a range of activities be taken
over from the Ministry of Agriculture and be rendered more efficient before
being handed on to Local Government Councils, co-operatives or private
operators. In the evert there has been a limited transfer of the tractor
hire unit and some fertilizer stores to private operators but the bulk of
activities have remained with the project, aud in the face of declining
budgetary allocations there are problems of sustainability. This applies
particularly to road and irrigation work maintenance.  The roads construct-
ed under the project have not been taken over by local government authori-
ties and the completion report states that they have fallen in to disrepair
and await maintenance under a second phase project. A long term solution
to the maintenance of rural roads in Nigeria is yet to be identified and
like its predecessors this project made no substantive progress in this
matter.
11.       The irrigation works rehabilitated under the project had origi-
nally been constructed by the Local Government Council which then had
inadequato resources with which to maintain them so that they deteriorated.
Three out of eleven schemes were chosen for rehabilitation and two of these
have actually been rehabilitated at a cost of N1404 per ha. It was expect-
ed that farmers would pay a water charge adequate to fully cover the
ongoing maintenance of the schemes. In the event it has not proved possi-
ble to levy any charges from the farmers and in consequence the government
has to find funds to carry out the maintenance. As it was a lack of funds
which led to the deterioration of the schemes in the first place the
project has not provided any sustainable alternative and the completion
report records that future maintenance is already a problem and it is
proposed that it be carried out by a follow on project authority. This
provides no sound basis for future irrigation development and proposals for
further government organized formal irrigation schemes should be reviewed
in the light of the Bida experience.



- 5 -
12.       There appear to be two reasons why farmers are reluctant to pay
water rates. The first is that it is traditional that government services
are free and there is consequently resistance on the part of the farmers
and hesitancy on the part of government to the imposition of a realistic
charge. The second is that the delivery of water to the farmers fields has
not resulted in greatly increased benefits. The appraisal report estimated
that farmers would have to invest an additional ninety man days per ha. in
land levelling and preparation to make use of the improved water supply.
This requirement clashes with their work on their upland farms and so the
full benefit of the water has not been realised. In consequence
incremental rice yields on the formal schemes have been considerably less
than SAR estimates. This is an additional factor requiring close attention
when irrigation is being planned for a farming system which includes a
range of upland and irrigated crops.
D. The Viability of Government Run
Commercial Services
13.       The Bida project followed in the pattern of its predecessors in
supplying a range of direct services to farmers the costs of which were
expected to be fully covered by the charges levied. There was a legal
covenant to the effect that charges would be adequate to cover the full
cost of the services.
14.       The services included input sales, tractor hire, land clearing
and seed production. The completion report records that none of these came
anywhere near covering their costs. The distribution of inputs involved a
loss of N1.661 million because the project ran a large number of distribu-
tion points at which the sales were inadequate to cover staff costs. The
SAR reported that prior to its transfer the tractor hire unit involved a
65% subsidy under the ministry of agriculture. Under the project this
escalated and receipts were only 11% of costs. Mechanical land clearing
cost an average of N427 per ha. and receipts were N229 per ha. Seed
production costs over the project period were N876,000 and receipts were
W68,493 representing a 92% subsidy.
15.       This experience with regard to tractor hire, mechanical land
clearing and seed production tallies with experience on the other ADP's and
should provide an adequate stimulus to reconsider plans for government
intervention in these activities.
E. The Problem of Monitoring
Project Interventions
16.       APMEPU and the project monitoring unit were expected to monitor
and evaluate project technical and economic progress. This has proved a
more formidable task than was envisaged and there have been serious



-6-
problems with assessing yield and production data and relating it to
project activities. The completion report quotes APMEPU and project unit
figures for yields over the period 1980 to 1984 but it admits that there
are shortcomings with the data base. There are major fluctuations between
years for all crops. It so happens that although the year 4 figures are all
lower than the year 1 fig"res, those for year 5 are all higher and there
has been a temptation for some contributors to the completion report to use
these as reflecting project impact. The text however makes it clear that it
has not been possible to link project interventions to any of the fluctua-
tion in yield and because of the acknowledged imperfections in the data no
attempt has been made to assess project benefits from these figures.
17.       The difficulty of obtaining significant figures is illustrated by
surveys covering two major project initiatives, the tractor hire unit and
seed sales. In 1985 the tractor hire unit cultivated 1.39% of the farmland
in the project area but survey results reported that 43% of farmers had
their land cultivated by tractor hire and that 96% of that service was
provided by the project. With regard to seed sales the survey indicated
that 3% of farmers purchased seed in project year 0 while 44% purchased
seed in project year 5. In that year the project sold enough seed to plant
1.2% of the cultivated area. The text suggests that farmers were reporting
purchases of traditional seed from local markets rather than from the
project but offers no explanation as to why there should have been such a
major shift in habit between 1979 and 1985.
18.       The completion report has not been able to effectively quantify
project impact from survey data and this reflects the situation which other
ADP's have faced with regard to the validity of the results obtained from
farm surveys. Efforts are in hand to improve on this situation but Bida
has demonstrated how formidable are the problems which have to be overcome.
F. The Impact of the Project and
the Rate of Return
19.       The project does not appear to have brought about any change in
cropping patterns or husbandry practices in the area, nor is there evidence
of the large yield increases which were expected to result from the greater
labour input called for by the appraisal report. The completion report has
identified four project initiatives which have led to increased production.
These are the use of agro-chemicals and improved seeds, and the mechanized
land clearing and rehaoeilitation of irrigation works.
20.       Fertilizer was the main agro-chemical sold through the project
stores. Fertilizer sales in 1979 (the pre project year) were 2880 tons and
sales rose rapidly to 10302 tons in 1982 and then grew more slowly to 13000
tons in 1985. The rapid growth of fertilizer uptake between 1979 and 1982
was a universal phenomenon in Nigeria resulting from an increase in annual
imports from 150,000 tons to 1 million tons combined with a subsidy of
between 80 and 90%. There is no doubt that improved availability



-7-
contributed to part of the increase in sales in Bida, and it would not be
unreasonable to allocate 50% of the increment to project initiatives. In
1984 the subsidy was reduced and the project maintained sales by providing
5,000 tons of fertilizer on credit (forty percent of which was not repaid).
In 1984 the government also stimulated the establishment of large scale
farming enterprises in the Bida area through offers of favorable access to
foreign exchange. These companies made a major contribution to fertilizer
purchases. FACU records that with the continuing increase in fertilizer
price smallholder use fell by 50% in 1985 but the overall sales figure was
maintained by the large companies which also continued their purchases in
1986.
21.       Future patterns of uptake will be determined by government
policies regarding fertilizer subsidy. At present this stands at 70% and
provides modest benefit: cost ratios on most crops. A reduction of this
subsidy to 25% would result in benefit cost ratios well below 1:1 for
sorghum (the principal crop of the area) and just over 1 for yams and maize
at current output prices. This compares with ratios of 4 and 5 to 1 at the
time of rapid fertilizer uptake and it must be expected that any signifi-
cant reduction in benefit: cost ratios will lead to a reduction in fertil-
izer use. The impact of the project was to stimulate fertilizer sales at a
time of favorable input and output price ratios. It had no influence over
the types of fertilizer supplied and there is no record of any impact by
the project on methods of application. Future sales of fertilizer will
hinge on government subsidy policies rather than on initiatives which were
taken by the project.
22.       The two other chemicals which were sold in any quantity under the
project were herbicides and seed dressing. Herbicides were attractive to
large scale farmers before SFEM because the over valued currency made them
cheaper to use than hand labour. The completion report estimates than an
extra 360 tons of grain could have been produced as a result of herbicide
use in the project area in 1985. The devaluation of the naira has made
herbicide much less attractive in relation to labour and it is not clear
that the demand stimulated under the project will be maintained at current
price ratios.
23.       Seed dressing has been popular with farmers for some years but
the project made it much more widely available and the completion report
estimates that an extra 480 tons of grain was produced in 1986 as a result
of the project's sales of this input.
24.       With regard to sales of seed the project's impact was confined to
rice and maize.  In its last four years a total of 15 tons of rice seed
were sc.d which were estimated to have resulted in an incremental produc-
tion of 125 tons of rice. Maize seed sales over the last four years have
totalled 265 tons but have been steadily declining. Totail incremental
production is estimated at 2500 tons but much of this stems from the first
two years of sales and with open pollenated seed the improvement in yield
is only reckoned to last for three years. The project was not able to



-8 -
establish a viable seed production or sales unit, nor stimulate long term
farmer interest in alternative varieties.
25.       The mechanised land clearing unit cleared a total of 1055 ha.
over a five year period from 1981 to 1985. This added to the total land
cultivated in that period and would have resulted in some increpse in total
crop production. The land is normally used for about four or five years
before reverting to fallow so that the impact of this project initiative
would have lasted for several years. The cost of mechanised clearing has
escalated greatly as a result of SFEM and without an 80 to 90% subsidy
there would be little demand for this service. An estimated 30 to 40,000
ha. of land are cleared by hand each year in the project area and it is not
anticipated that the mechanised land clearing initiative of the project
will have any long term impact on the overall area under crops.
26.       The project rehabilitated a total of 1625 ha. of formal irriga-
tion schemes and improved 3587 ha. of informal irrigation works. The
completion report speaks highly of the quality of the engineering work
involved. The impact of this intervention will depend on two factors. The
first is the development of a sustainable method of maintaining the struc-
tures which were provided. The second is the evolution of technologies
which will enable farmers to overcome the labour constraints which at
present prevent them from making the optimum use of the available water.
Until these two constraints have been overcome it is not possible to assess
the long term impact of the irrigation development.
27.       Apart from its agricultural initiatives the project's other main
intervention was road construction. The project constructed 336 km. of new
road and reconstructed and upgraded a further 107 km. The completion
report records increasing traffic flows on these roads but no attempt has
been made to quantify the impact of this project activity. Experience
elsewhere in Nigeria indicates substantial financial and social benefits to
new rural road development. The longer term impact will hinge upon the
development of an effective maintenance program.
28.       As with any development project there has been an impact in
providing local staff with training and experience and so contributing
substantially to the human resource of a state which is less well endowed
than many others in Nigeria in this respect. No attempt has been made in
the completion report to.. quantify the impact of this human resource but it
needs to be considered in any overall assessment of the project.
29.       The completion report has estimated an overall rate of return to
the project of 18.3% but this review is not able to support that figure.
There are a number of weaknesses in the analysis and these are detailed
below:
(a) the main source of benefits is derived from fertilizer sales.
All sales incremental to the 1979 level are counted as resulting
from project initiatives. This is unrealistic and a figure of 50%
would be nearer the truth;



(b) the highest figure for fertilizer sales is assumed to continue
for another twenty years as a result of the project's current
initiatives. This is not a reasonable assumption in the light of
the dominant role of government subsidy on fertilizer sales;
(c) the second major source of benefits derives from the irrigation
development. The incremental yield per ha. assumed to derive
solely from improved water supply is much higher than available
evidence would suggest, and the single sale of pumps in 1984 is
expected to continue to generate benefits for twenty years. The
quite large maintenance costs of the irrigation works are not
included for the post project period;
(d) the third source of benefits derives from the sale of seeds and
agro-chemicals other than fertilizer. Seed sales have declined
and not risen and the project has established no long term
arrangement for seed production so that this benefit should be
discounted for the next eighteen years. Herbicide sales will
depend heavily on prices and past patterns of uptake established
by the project cannot be assumed to continue in the face of
devaluation; and
(e) the analysis has used 1978 indices as the basis for the
calculations, following on the SAR model. The major change in
the real exchange rate between 1978 and 1986 together with the
fact that different price deflators have been used for the non
traded benefits and costs has led to substantial distortions in
the calculations leading to an overstatement of the benefits.
30.       If the assumption is made that 25% of the quantity of fertilizer
purchased at the project's peak year continues to be purchased over the
next 18 years solely because of the influence of the project, and assuming
more realistic figures for the benefits derived form the provision of
irrigation water, together with some costs for the maintenance of the
irrigation works then the rate of return is barely positive. Adjustments
to take account of the distortions in the calculations detailed in (e)
above would depress the figure further.
G. Lessons From The Project
31.       As with the earlier ADP's in Nigeria the weaknesses of this
project provide some clear lessons for future interventions in this sector.
Five of these are selected for particular attention.
32.       The first concerns the understanding of the real constraints
which limit farmers' production.  This project like its predecessors
assumed that farmers had surplus labour at critical points in the farming
year with which "to improve on land preparation, increase plant popula-
tions, carry out more timely farm operations and better weeding". In the
event as with the previous projects, this did not prove to be the case. In



- 10 -
consequence the yield increases per ha. were not achieved and the only
initiatives which elicited widespread uptake vere subsidised tractor hire
services and fertilizer which provided increased production without in-
creased labour requirements at peak periods. Underlying these earlier ADPs
was the assumption that farmers are ignorant of the benefits of timely
planting weeding etc., rather than that they face critical constraints
which limit their capacity to carry out these activities. If future
agricultural strategies are based on the same assumptions then they are
likely to face similar problems to the Bida project. If genuine farmer
constraints are not understood then it is unlikely that responsive
initiatives will be developed.
33.       The second lesson concerns government involvement with tractor
hire and land clearing units, the direct production of seed and the distri-
bution of inputs. The Bank has become increasingly wary of these costly
and inefficient activities but there is still a natural demand from both
civil servants and larger farmers for these services which provide them
with a significant transfer of resources. Bida provides further stimulus
to reconsider the appropriate role of government in the sector.
34.       The third concerns the provision of credit through a government
project. Medium term credit provided to larger scale farmers resulted In
77% default rate, and seasonal credit to small farmers had a 40% default
rate. This is in line with experience in other states and highlights the
need for credit to derive from a body which is not viewed as a government
department which is considered as a source of gifts and services.
35.       The fourth lesson concerning irrigation is linked to that of
credit in that in this case also the provision of water by government has
been viewed as a gift and there has been little success in either handing
over responsibility for maintenance to the farmers or charging a realistic
fee for water. As the Bank becomes more involved in government sponsored
irrigation schemes the lessons of Bida deserve close scrutiny.
36.       The fifth lesson concerns long term sustainability.  The ADPs'
major impact has been in the realm of new road and rural water supply
development. Maintenance is now becoming the major issue. The Bida
project was expected to hand over most of its activities to local govern-
ment councils, but as with other projects this has not proved a viable
option. The Bank is now focussing on the institutional issues related to
rural development. The Bida experience should accentuace the need to give
yet more weight to the importance of sustainability.



.NNN
- 1-                       ATTAClDUT
ZCZC AFRF1296 F4CS0101
WDIAL
,REF t AF4AG
OINFO
-SUBJECTs APMEPU PCR ON BIDA
-DRAFTED BY.                         EXTs 34842
-AUTHORIZED BY.
-DOCUMENT NAME. TELEX/APMEPU      DISK NAMEs CONSI
-CC: MESSRS. CAMPBELL, RICE, KRISHNAN, SWAYZE.
…--------------------------------_---------------____           ____
*     961 20711 =
-APMEPU, KADUNA STATE, NIGERIA.
-ATTNs MR. OPUTA.
ST
WASHINGTON, D. C. DATED: 07-JUL-87
FOR MR. OPUTA. WE HAVE REVIEWED APMEPU'S PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ON BIDA AND WISH TO CONGRATULATE YOUR STAFF ON THE THOROUGH JOB WHICH
THEY HAVE DONE. WE HAVE ALREADY COMMENTED ON THE LENGTH OF THE
DOtMENT AND OUR PRESENT CONCERN IS WITH THE CALCULATION OF THE RATE
OF 8*TURN ON THE FOLLOWING GROUNDS.
AAA. FERTILIZER SALES THROUGHOUT NIGERIA ROSE RAPIDLY BETWEEN 1979
AND 1983 AND WE FEEL THAT AT BEST 50% OF THE INCREMENT SHOULD
REASONABLY BE DIRECTLY ATTRIBUTED TO PROJECT INITIATIVES, RATHER THAN
THE WHOLE INCREASE.
8BB. FUTURE SALES OF FERTILIZER WILL BE DETERMINED BY THE LEVELS OF
BOVERNMENT SUBSIDIES AND INPUT AND OUTPUT PRICES OVER WHICH THE
PROJECT HAS NO CONTROL. WE FEEL THAT IT IS NOT REALISTIC TO ESTIMATE
FUTURE SALES OF FERTILIZER AT THE PROJECT'S PEAK LEVEL AS BEING
SOLELY ATTRIBUTABLE TO PROJECT INITIATIVES AND IN VIEW OF THE
UNCERTAINTIES RAISED BY THE PROMINENCE OF THE SUBSIDY IN PRICING WE
HAVE TAKEN A FIGURE OF -5 PERCENT OF FUTURE SALES AS STEMMING FROM
THE PROJECT.
CCC. WE FEEL THAT THE 1.5 TON PER HA. INCREMENT IN RICE YIELD
DERIVING SOLELY FROM THE WATER SUPPLIED BY THE IRRIGATION IS HIGHER
THAN THE EVIDENCE SUGGESTS, AND THE HIGH COST OF THE RUNNING AND
4AjNTENANCE OF THE IRRIGATION WORKS DO NOT APPEAR TO HAVE BEEN FULLY
TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT. THE SALE OF PUMPS IN 1984 APPEAR TO BE
CALCULATED AS PRODUCING BENEFITS WELL BEYOND THEIR EXPECTED LIFE SPAN
OF THREE TO FOUR YEARS.
DDD. SEED SALES IN RECENT YEARS HAVE DECLINED TO LOW LEVELS AND NO
*     LONG TERM SEED PRODUCTION PATTERN HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED WHICH WOULD
GUARANTEE SUBSTANTIAL BENEFITS DERIVING SOLELY FROM PROJECT
INITIATIVES FOR THE NEXT TWENTY YEARS.
EEE. THE MAJOR CHANGES IN REAL EXCHANGE RATES BETWEEN 1978 AND 1986
HAS LED TO DISTORTIONS IN THE RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS WHICH USE
1978 FIGURES.  IN ADDITION TO WHICH DIFFERENT PRICE DEFLATORS HAVE
BEEN USED FOR NON-TRADED BENEFITS AND COSTS. IF ALL THESE FACTORS
ARE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT THE RATE OF RETURN IS dRIUND ZERO.  HT THE
SAME TIME THE DEPENRENCE OF THE RRtE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS ON FUTURE



- 12 .-                      aTTmACENT
FERTILIZER SALES OVER WHICH THE PROJECT WILL HAVE MINIMAL INFLUENCE P. 2
COULD HAVE BEEN USED AS AN ARGUMENT FOR NOT ATTEMPTINS TO ASSESS A
RATE OF RETURN IN THE ABSENCE OF ANY BASIC CHANGES IN THE
AGRICULTURAL SYSTEM BROUGHT ABOUT BY THE PROJECT WHICH WOULD HAVE A
PREDICTABLE LONG-TERM IMPACT. WE WOULD BE GRATEFUL FOR YOUR COMMENTS
ON THESE POINTS. WE REGRET OUR DELAY IN RAISING THIS ISSUE-WHICH
RESULTS FROM STAFF TRAVEL BUT WOULD BE GRATEFUL FOR YOUR EARLY
RESPONSE SO THAT WE CAN FINALIZE OUR OVERVIEW BEFORE STAFF LEAVE THE
OFFICE ONCE MORE.
REGARDS, SETH, DIVISION CHIEF, AF4AG, INTBAFRAD.
,vA



- 13 -                           ATTACHMENT
Paee 3
FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF RtJRAL DEVELOPMENT
Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit.
Telephone:                                                          3 G G.S.S Road,
Kawo Office:    213335                                              Kawo, Kaduna.
Computer Centre: 213379                                             P.M.B. 2178.
Telex. 20911 KAD TDS. NG Box 070.                                   Kaduna, Nigeria.
Please address all correspondence to
Head of Unit
Ret.                          -                          6th October, 
Mr. A. Seth,
Division Chief,
WAPAB,
World Bank,
1818H Street N.W.,
WASHINGTON D.C. 20433,
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. Seth,
The Economic Analy$is for the Bida ADP PCR has now been
revised and a new ERR of 9.3% obtained with a benefit-cost
ratio of 1.0.  The f'maTn1ca RR was calculated at 22.4% with
a benefit-cost ratio of 1.6. The implications of these results
are that the project was only marginally viable in economic
terms but financially beneficial to the target population of
small farmers.
The revised assumptions are contained in the attachment as was
agreed upon in our recent communications. However the following
observations were also made and considered in the revision:
1.   We decided not co use 1986 prices despite vour comment
on distortions caused by high inflation and changed exchange
rates because in deflating back to 1978 the major objective
was to be able to compare project performance against the
SAR. We still feel that this is one of the major objectives
of the PCR exercise and therefore from this perspective,
1978 prices are appropriate in evaluatinR the performance
of an investment which was planned at that time. This
method is also commonly used in this type of ex-poste
review.
2.   Assumptions regarding the replacement of pumps after
three years were reflected in the original calculations
at Table 7/1 and 13/8 respectively, thus no changes
were made in the revision.
3.   The maintenance costs of the irrigation facilities were
already reflected in tables 13/8 and 13/9 of the original
analysis.



- 14 -                    ATTACHMENT
Page 4
4.   Your observation  on seed sales has really been considered in
our original projections as estimates are very conservative.
See for example Tables 3/t to 3/5 where the base for projection,
t986, is far lower than the best results achieved by the
project in earlier years. The overall contribution of improved
seeds to total benefits was so small anyway that we felt it
unnecessary to adjust the figures as there would be little
change in the ERR.
rt is obvious from the revised set of assumptions and other
considerations thow sensitive the ERR is to even minor changes in
assumptions. This partly evolves from the weaknesses in the
methodology currently being used in estimating the ERR.
The additional problem of uncertainties about the likely policy
on subsidy and resulting effects on fertilizer demand adds another
qualification to the estimated ERR. As previously stated this in
itself could be sufficient reason  for not calculating a rate.  In
interpreting the results therefore it is important to note these
qualifications especially as the newly calculated rate now makes Bida
a marginal project, and also because benefits such as road user
savings and institutional development though costed have not been
included in the stream of benefits.
Yours faithfully,
Dr. C.O. OPUTA
U HEEAD: A.P.M.E.F.U.



- ]5                  gi y
ZCZC AFRF7755 F4A9A433
WDIAL
REF i AF4A0
OINFO
-SUBJECTs NIGERIA - DIDA ADP
-DRAFTED BYs                              EXTs  34493
-AUTHORIZED BY.
-DOCUMENT NAMEs  tlx oput&3             DISK NAME.  wambia
-CC$
961 209s1 -
-APMEPU, KADUNA, NIGERIA, ATTNt DR. OPUTA
ST
WASHINGTON, D.C. DATED. 15-OCT-87
FOR DR. OPUTA, APMEPU.  (AA) WE ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF YOUR LETTER
Of OCTOBER 6 ENCLOSING THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF BIDA ADP CALCULATED
AT 9*3 PERCENT, AND WITH A FINANCIAL RQTE OF RETURN OF 22.4 PERCENT.
(BB}) RASHID FARUQEE WILL PROBABLY WISH TO DISCUSS THE CONTENTS OF
YOUR REPORT WHEN HE VISITS YOU IN KADUNA LATER ON OCTOBER 25.
UNFORTUNATELY, HE WILL NOT HAVE READ THE REPORT AS Hh IS ALREADY IN
LASOS. REGARDS WAMBIA



MAP SECTION
i



53RO 1330
5° b'                               5-30'                               610                           ;s            4- S,t-t
NIGERIA                                                                     lo-oo'--10 00 l    NIGERIA
°1000'               BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                           /
MAIN  ROAD NETWORK  AND PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL CENTERS                                                                     Ais -   ';
Itw           .s. i             -   : 
flk
ro Kadiodun
rO Meduna       ~~NI G ER   STAT E                                        ,: 
rO MOA10a                                          . GAMhON
/3                                                                                           A*-U A J   9330'
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(lg / *.3 .takt                                                                                               f     s
T_                                                          O
9*00 , rOI/aorin andlogo; .                                                                  |°9.Agae|
D-bb                                        Project BoundoryhTrs                    -h
Federol Roods~                       Local Council Boundaries                    |                                                 S\ Gt 
-         2 Lne Paved MStote Boundaries w\o Bt
-          1 Lana Paved                    R s                                                                                 *o   ,    *, 
- - -    Earth RoadsKt  A                                                                                                    -------
.....Under Design (1971)                                         N.. t                                                                        .    * 8-0
aStte Rads:                                                                                                         G A I
- -  Earth Roads                                                 I                                                                                _ 
........    Under Design                                                                         Be                               "s I
Ksoielrnabs 0  10    20    30    40    50                                                                                             '
I. .,MaaI.d .  T,    '    ,, ,  ,
C  ,c  w.16    h9s 
A              gN                                    . To Kotons
s- oo  5- 30"                          6 oo                                 69 30               i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANUARY 1fl



