Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2390-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN
NIGER STATE
March 5, 1979
Ths document has a restricted distbution and may be used by reipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
US$1 - Naira 0.65
NI - US$1.54
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton         -  0.98 long ton
1 long ton           -  1.017 metric ton
(- 2,240 lbs.)
1 hectare            -  2.47 acres
1 acre              >-  0.405 hectare
1 kilometre (km)     -  0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC           -  Area Development Center
APMEPU        -  Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation
and Planning Unit
ASP           -  Advanced Service Package
BPEC          -  Bida Project Executive Committee
BPMU          -  Bida Project Management Unit
BSP           -  Basic Service Package
CP            -  FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
FDA           -  Federal Department of Agriculture
FMARD         -  Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FMG           -  Federal Military Government
FMF           -  Federal Ministry of Finance
FSC           -  Farm Service Center
IAR           -  Institute of Agricultural Research
ISU           -  Irrigation Service Unit
LGC           -  Local Government Council
MEPU          -  Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit, BPMU
MNR           -  Ministry of Natural Resources - Niger State
NACB          -  Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NSG           -  Niger State Government
THU           -  Tractor Hire Unit
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:            Niger State of Nigeria
Amount:                 US$23 million, equivalent
Terms:                  Payable over 20 years including 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:        The full US$23 million would be onlent by the Federal
Government to the Niger State Government on the same
terms at the Bank loan. The Federal Government would
carry the exchange risk.
Project Description:   The project would consist of a package of farm support
services and physical infrastructure designed to
benefit directly 60,000 farm families located in the
southern part of Niger State. Support services would
include extension advice, crop protection measures,
improved seeds, fertilizers, and the provision of
credit facilities. Physical infrastructure would in-
clude constructing and improving 650 km of gravelled
feeder roads, the maintenance of feeder roads, the
establishment of a project headquarters, 4 area devel-
opment centers and 23 farm service centers, the rehabil-
itation and improvement of irrigation schemes, better
water control and the development of 2600 ha of valley
swamps. A project management unit with appropriate
technical and administrative staff would be established
to implement the project and develop guidelines for
future projects. Facilities would be provided for
training both agricultural field staff and senior
specialists.  Consultant services would be engaged to
review state agricultural policies and prepare feasibil-
ity studies for a second phase project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Total         Foreign         Local
---------- (US$ million) ----------
Irrigation Development                    7.0             2.3            4.7
Road Works and Engineering                6.9             3.5            3.4
Buildings and Housing                     9.0             3.5            5.5
Incremental Farm Inputs                   4.2             3.2            1.0
Medium Term Cash Loans                     1.1             -             1.1
Project Administration Overheads          5.4             2.0            3.4
Consultant Services                       0.4             0.4             -
Commercial Services                       4.0             1.4            2.6
Other Agricultural and
Training Services                       7.8             2.7            5.1
Subtotal                                 45.8            19.0           26.8
Less Pre-development Costs                2.3             0.5            1.8
Total Base Costs                         43.5            18.5           25.0
Physical Contingencies                    2.7             1.0            1.7
Price Contingencies                      18.2             3.4           14.8
Total Project Costs                      64.4            23.0           41.4
Financing Plan:                         Total           Foreign         Local
-----------(US$ million)----------
IBRD                                     23.0            23.0
Federal Government                       16.1              -            16.1
Niger State Government                   25.3              -            25.3
Total Project Costs                      64.4            23.0           41.4
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY         1980    1981    1982    1983    1984   1985
Annual         2.0      6.5      5.6     4.2      3.7    1.0
Cumulative    2.0       8.5    14.1    18.3    22.0   23.0
Rate of Return:       16 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:            1912-UNI dated February 26, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR A BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN NIGER STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$23 million
to help finance a project for agricultural development in the area around
Bida in the Niger State of Nigeria. The loan would have a term of 20 years
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum.  The
proceeds of the loan would be relent to the Niger State Government on the
same terms as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Nigeria, Recent Economic Developments and Short-
Term Prospects" (Report 1690a-UNI), dated December 23, 1977, has been distri-
buted to the Executive Directors. The following paragraphs summarize the
major conclusions of that report and update them on the basis of more recent
findings by an economic mission which visited Lagos in October/November, 1978.
The report of this mission is expected to be distributed to the Executive
Directors in May, 1979. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        After 12 years of military regime, Nigeria is now embarking on the
final stages in its proposed program for a return to civilian rule. The
present military government is adhering closely to the plan, announced in
July 1975, for restoring constitutional government in 1979. In 1976/77 a
new constitution was drafted and elections for local government councils
were held. The draft constitution was subsequently adopted by a Constituent
Assembly comprising mostly elected but partly nominated members. An amended
version was accepted by the Supreme Military Council and formally promulgated
in November of last year. The 12-year-old ban on political parties and
activities was lifted in October 1978, resulting in the upspring of over 20
parties shortly thereafter. Only 5 of these parties met the rules laid down
by the Federal Military Government and will compete in the elections of
federal and state legislatures and of an executive president during the
course of this year, leading to a complete transfer of political power to a
civilian administration by October 1, 1979.
Economic Background
4.        Nigeria has an estimated population of 79 million (1977).  GNP per
capita is around US$420, which partly reflects the gain from increased oil
prices, and is higher than other indicators of the standard of living would
suggest. In terms of such criteria as life expectancy, child mortality and
number of people per physician, it ranks amongst the poorest countries in the



world. Oil has been a major resource for Nigeria for over a decade, but not
until the sharp increase in the oil price in late 1973 did it acquire such a
dominating influence, surpassing the agricultural sector in all measures of
relative importance except employment; it now accounts for 80 percent of
government revenue and over 90 percent of export earnings. The oil boom gave
a major boost to economic activity and supplied the means for a huge develop-
ment effort. Nigeria launched an ambitious Third National Development Plan
(1975-80) which provided for a US$70 billion investment program. As a result
of the rapid rise in government expenditure, the non-oil sector grew at an
average of 11 percent per year and overall GDP at 6 percent over the four
years since 1973. However, the main sources of growth were construction
and the tertiary sectors, whereas investment and production in the directly
productive sectors, particularly agriculture, has been lagging.
5.        The level of petroleum revenue, up from US$2.3 billion in 1973/74
to US$9.2 billion in 1977/78, has had a profound influence on the fiscal
situation. In the four-year period following 1973/74, recurrent expenditure
by the Federal Government increased from US$1.1 billion to US$4.2 billion, and
capital spending from US$1.2 billion to US$9.7 billion. Public sector invest-
ment not only showed remarkable expansion in such traditional areas as trans-
port, communications, and power, but education and large-scale manufacturing
also received large allocations.
6.        The impact of the oil boom on the balance of payments has been
equally strong. Exports rose by 150 percent in 1974 and by mid-1975 foreign
exchange reserves amounted to US$6.2 billion. This permitted a rapid expan-
sion of imports which, by 1978, were at a level four times that reached in
1974.
Re-emergence of Financial Constraints
7.        Projections in 1975 did not indicate a reversal of the country's
resource position until 1980, yet the first signs of a turnaround appeared
already late in 1975, and the financial constraint tightened towards the
end of 1977. The re-emergence of a resource gap has in fact been more
rapid and drastic than expected. The cause is a combination of two major
factors: on the one hand, lower than expected oil exports due to a surplus
of light crude on the world market and, on the other hand, the inability
of the Government to adjust expenditure to available resources.
8.        So rapidly did Government expenditure rise that already in 1975/76
the federal budget showed an overall deficit of US$2.6 billion; the situation
deteriorated further with the deficit reaching US$3.3 billion in 1977/78.
State Governments' budgets were also in deficit. Initially, the Federal
Government was able to draw upon its previously accumulated balances, but now
that they have been depleted, domestic borrowing, largely through the banking
system, has financed the additional requirements. More recently, external
borrowing has assumed greater importance as a source of finance.



9.        With public sector investment accounting for 70 percent of total
investment, and total Government expenditure around 43 percent of GDP, the
strain on the administrative resources of the Government has been enormous.
The severe shortage of skilled manpower, in addition to physical bottlenecks,
seriously limited the extent to which Nigeria's oil wealth could be effectively
utilized within a short period.
10.       Having reached 2.25 million barrels per day (mbpd) in 1974, oil
production has since then fluctuated at significantly lower levels. In the
first quarter of 1978 production fell sharply to 1.5 mbpd mainly because
Nigeria maintained a relatively high price in the face of intense competition
from the newer sources of oil, e.g. the North Sea and Alaska.  Though produc-
tion is now back at a level of around 2 mbpd, the average output for 1978 did
not exceed 1.9 mbpd.
11.       As a result of the stagnation in oil production and the heavy import
demand, the balance of payments recorded an overall deficit from 1976 onwards.
This reflects a basic change in the balance of trade. Whereas oil exports
in 1978 were roughly the same as in 1974, imports have more than quadrupled
and, consequently, the current account is expected to show a deficit of US$4.3
billion in 1978. Foreign exchange reserves fell gradually to US$4.2 billion
at the end of 1977, then dropped rapidly to US$1.9 billion by the end of 1978,
the equivalent of only 7 weeks imports.
12.       There can be little doubt that the rapid expansion of Government
expenditure has contributed to a high level of inflation in recent years.
The increase in the cost-of-living averaged 26 percent per year between 1975
and 1977, and is unlikely to have dropped below 20 percent in 1978. Severe
port congestion and internal distributional bottlenecks have prevented liberal
import policies from being more effective in dampening inflation. The domestic
rate of inflation has been considerably higher than that of Nigeria's main
trading partners, and consequently the competitive position of domestic pro-
ducers of traded goods is thought to have been seriously weakened.
Recent Measures and Short-Term Outlook
13.       The Government has recognized the deteriorating financial position
and, over the last two years, has introduced a series of measures aimed in
particular at curbing inflation and strengthening the balance of payments.
Monetary policy measures included ceilings on bank credit and a rise in
interest rates in two stages by up to two percent. Investment in agricul-
ture and oil exploration was encouraged through fiscal incentives. While
the official oil export price was lowered by 5 percent early in 1978, the
price of domestic fuel was raised by about 60 percent. The principal mea-
sures, however, were the introduction of an austere budget in 1978 together
with extensive import restrictions. The revised Federal Government budget
estimates for 1978/79 provide for a cut of 5 percent in recurrent expenditure,
and of 32 percent in capital expenditure compared to last year's actual
outlays. In addition to the imposition of substantially higher import duties,
a wide range of consumer goods as well as intermediate goods were either
banned or licensed. These restrictions were further tightened in October,
1978. The Government also successfully raised two large Euro-currency loans
amounting to a total of US$1.75 billion.



- 4 -
14.       While the Government is continuing to experience serious financial
limitations, and last year's measures have not yet become fully effective,
the financial situation appears to be stabilizing. The budget deficit in
1978/79 has been greatly reduced to about US$1.7 billion and, in view of
the large external loans, the recourse to borrowing from the domestic banking
system is expected to be limited. Along with the substantial run down of
foreign exchange reserves that has already occurred, this is likely to result
in a sharp drop in monetary expansion, and should help to dampen inflation.
The balance of payments outlook, however, is less sanguine. On the positive
side, oil exports in 1979 will be considerably higher following the recovery
in oil production and the recently announced OPEC price increase. The present
uncertainty in the world oil markets could also work to Nigeria's advantage.
In addition, the import restrictions which had caused anticipatory purchases
in 1978 should have an impact in 1979. On the other hand, no significant
change is expected in non-oil exports, and there is virtually no scope for
further use of foreign exchange reserves. Moreover, external borrowing at the
scale of 1978 is unlikely to be maintained.
15.       The tighter financial position is also affecting the implementation
of the Third Plan (1975-1980). Its size has been gradually reduced, initially
due to a lack of administrative and executive capacity, which restricted
the rate of implementation, but more recently also as a result of resource
constraints. Against a Plan investment target of US$70 billion, the expected
actual capital expenditure over the five-year period may not exceed US$45 bil-
lion; in real terms the reduction is larger in view of substantial inflation.
Longer-Term Prospects and Policies
16.       The Government is in the midst of preparing the Fourth Five-Year
Plan (1980-85). Although the guidelines have-not yet been made public, the
authorities have indicated that the next few years would be viewed as a
period of consolidation, as public sector investments are stabilized at the
current level, and the economy is restructured by stimulating the growth of
commodity producing sectors. Even with an unchanged level, gross domestic
investment would account for around 25 percent of GDP in 1985. Provided
investments are well conceived and effective, this rate should permit a
satisfactory growth of the economy, albeit more modest compared to recent
performance, with considerable potential for employment creation. However,
the principal constraint on future growth will be the balance of payments, and
the actual performance of the economy will depend on how successfully imports
are replaced by domestic production and non-oil exports stimulated. One
critical factor will be to ensure the competitiveness of domestic production
relative to foreign goods. This will require measures affecting the incentive
structure, including the establishment of a favorable cost and price structure,
as well as a change in investment priorities towards more directly productive
projects.
17.       The demand on the institutional and manpower resources of the public
sector in recent years has clearly been excessive. This accounts, in part,
for the relatively weak economic management and inefficiency in resource use.
However, the expected more modest investment effort should ease the strain
on the Government's administrative and managerial capacity. Furthermore, the



- 5 -
planned transition to civilian rule in October, 1979, is generally expected
to lead to a greater role for the private sector, thus easing what has been
one of the fundamental constraints to obtaining a higher return on the large
investment effort. Given Nigeria's solid resource base, it is thought that,
in spite of limitations in absorptive capacity, a medium-term growth of around
4-5 percent would be within reach.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
18.       Until recently, Nigeria had only limited recourse to external
borrowing.  The public guaranteed external debt outstanding (including undis-
bursed) amounted to $1.3 billion at the end of 1977 and, mainly because of
the two Euro-currency loans, it amounted to $3.2 billion at end of 1978. The
service on this debt would rise to an average of $550 million a year in the
early 1980s, representing about 3 percent of the expected export earnings.
The World Bank's share in the external debt now is about 25 percent. The
Government has indicated its reluctance to incur any more syndicated loans,
though it would continue to contract project financing largely on commercial
terms. Given the relatively low level of the existing external debt and the
Government's cautious approach to foreign borrowing, the debt service ratio
over the next ten years is unlikely to rise above 15 percent. Provided the
Government is able to effectively implement policies that will correct the
current imbalance between aggregate demand and supply and lead to improved
resource use, Nigeria can be considered creditworthy for considerable Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
19.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of December 31, 1978 amounted
to US$942.9 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of December 31, 1978 was US$596.9 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$346.0 million. Transport and power together account
for about 43 percent of total commitments; agriculture for about 31 percent
(most of which was committed in the last four fiscal years); and education,
industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining 26 percent of
total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY77 were about US$59 million, and
US$51 million in FY78. Disbursements are expected to increase during the next
two years because of the rapid drawdown of the remaining port and power loans.
In the longer term, disbursements will increase in line with the expansion of
Bank lending to Nigeria. There have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria
for US$35.5 million; both are fully disbursed. IFC has made three loans to
borrowers totalling US$3.6 million and four equity investments totalling
US$2.4 million. Of these amounts, US$3.4 million have been repaid, cancelled
or sold. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular emphasis
on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives are in



- 6 -
consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third Plan,
which places considerable emphasis on agriculture and its policy to use the
proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of the
economy and thereby raise the standard of living of its population, including
the rural poor.
21.       In view of Nigeria's increasing need for external finance and
the interest it has expressed in greater Bank involvement, a greatly expanded
Bank lending program is contemplated. In developing a broader approach to
lending in Nigeria, a central objective is to support the Government's own
development strategy by strengthening national institutions which are central
to the country's development effort. A second objective of Bank lending
is to raise the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish
the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been
actively pursued in recent agricultural projects which benefit some of the
very lowest income groups. Agricultural lending of this kind will continue to
figure prominently in the future lending program. A third objective of Bank
lending is to support Government's efforts to diversify the economy and reduce
the excessive dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and
fiscal revenue. Consequently, we hope to develop some industrial projects of
an explicitly export-oriented nature, although our efforts are still at a
rather preliminary stage. Agricultural lending in particular will include
strengthening the potential for export crops such as cocoa.
22.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make
a positive contribution in power, highway maintenance, and water supply.
Project identification work is under way in all of these sectors. Strategic
support for the commodity producing sectors will also be given by lending
for education. In this context, it is proposed that vocational, technical
and teacher training be given heavy emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support
Government's efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors.
It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will
be addressed through a number of urban development projects focussed on the
needs of the urban poor. A sectoral distribution of lending along these
lines would be in keeping with the need to generate employment and would
support also the Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum revenues
to ameliorate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       Agriculture continues to play an important role in the Nigerian
economy despite the prominence of the petroleum sector. Approximately 60
percent of Nigeria's population is dependent upon agriculture for their
principal source of employment and income. Since, in the future, other
sectors will have only a limited absorbtive capacity for additional labor,



- 7 -
the agricultural sector will continue to play a key role for some time to come
both as an employer and as a provider of foodstuffs for the rapidly growing
urban population. The importance of the agricultural sector is manifest also
by other indicators. Value added by agriculture accounts for almost one-
quarter of GDP and fully one-third if petroleum production is excluded.
Furthermore, over 60 percent of non-oil exports consist of agricultural
products.
24.       In terms of growth, the agricultural sector has been essentially
stagnant in recent years. Production has fluctuated significantly from
year to year, but there was no real growth of value added during the period,
1970-77. These years witnessed a marked decline in the export of traditional
agricultural products other than cocoa while imports of food rose from US$80
million to nearly US$1,200 million. At the same time food prices rose preci-
pitously as demand (a function of population and income growth) outstripped
domestic supply.
25.       Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of small-
holders whose levels of technology and productive efficiency are low.
The typical productive unit is a family farm of between 2 - 3 hectares.
Although there is regional specialization in the cultivation of cash crops --
the tree-crop belt in the south and the groundnut and cotton belts in the
north -- almost every family grows some of its own food requirements. Only a
relatively small proportion of these food crops enters commercial trade
for shipment to other areas, the principal flow of such trade being from the
food crop belt in the middle of the country to the urban centers and other
food deficit areas of the south.
26.       Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a
background of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising
standards of education, both of which contrast sharply with the poor returns
to labor from traditional agriculture. This has encouraged the drift of
young people away from rural areas and has resulted in a sharp rise in wage
rates for hired labor. In the long run, a prosperous agriculture capable
of reducing this drift can be achieved only through the application of ad-
vanced farming techniques, which are more appropriate to larger farming
units whether operated by groups or individuals. Efforts to encourage
such farm development should complement support for smallholders.
27.       Government is aware of the need to improve performance in the agri-
culture sector and to utilize a substantial proportion of revenues from oil,
a depleting asset, to expand and diversify the rest of the economy in which
agriculture is the dominant sector. In the revised Third Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan, a total of US$4.8 billion has been earmarked for the sector to
support a targeted growth rate of 5 percent. The actual level of expendi-
ture may be lower, however, as a result of fiscal constraints and estimated
growth is about 1 percent per annum. The Plan includes development of several
major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of modern farming techniques
to smallholders, improved input distribution and marketing services and
support for various integrated development projects. Rural development pro-
grams along these lines are to be promoted with complementary investments in
@ijk^gjy and feeder roads, rural electrification, health and other social



- 8 -
28.       The Government's main objective in the short-term is to improve
the domestic price stability of basic food crops and to ensure adequate food
supplies for the rapidly expanding urban centers. Against this background
of assuring domestic food supplies, Government's long-term objectives are to
create a prosperous and efficient agricultural industry that will restrain
the population drift to urban centers and revive the role of Nigeria as
an exporter of agricultural produce. Success in this endeavor will be con-
tingent, however, upon overcoming a number of development constraints in the
sector.
Development Contraints
29.       Undoubtedly, one of the principal development constraints to the
sector is the lack of effective agricultural support services. The transport
of produce is hampered by lack of feeder roads. Many farmers have to travel
long distances to obtain fertilizers and other basic farm inputs which, in
many cases, are in irregular supply. Consequently, even with prevailing
levels of subsidies on farm inputs, production has not increased significantly
and has actually declined in some areas. Extension services are generally
deficient and the new technologies that are available are not reaching farmers
in remote rural areas. A greater effort is required, particularly by the
agricultural research institutions, to improve the analysis of technical,
economic and financial aspects of farming innovations and adapt them to the
different socio-ecological conditions of Nigeria.
30.       Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector and present Government subsidy policies have served to
remove commercial incentive for private sector participation in the distri-
bution of fertilizers and other supplies and services. While during a period
of high liquidity, it may have been possible to finance a high level of sub-
sidies as an instrument for redistributing oil revenues to the rural sector
and for encouraging the adoption of unfamiliar and possibly risky technolo-
gies, there is now a need to reasses this policy in the light of the current
high demand for farm inputs and the tighter fiscal constraints facing Nigeria
today. The implications of the Federal Government's subsidy policy for the
long-term growth of the agricultural sector have been discussed with Govern-
ment on a number of occasions and, most recently, within the context of a
sector review mission that visited Nigeria in March 1978. While we believe
that the Federal Government generally shares the views of the Bank on the
principle at issue, in view of the political realities it is likely to adopt
a more cautions and gradual approach to the gradual phasing-out of input
subsidies. No firm timetable for such action has yet been established and
it is unlikely to materialize until after the elections.
31.       Furthermore, it would appear that, given the size of Nigeria's
massive development program, Government should divest itself progressively of
responsibilities for marketing both farm inputs and farm produce since this
function can be handled more efficiently by private enterprise. This would
require the creation of an economic framework appropriate to profitable in-
tervention of private entrepreneurs in the agriculture service sector and,
in that context,a redefinition of the roles of Federal and State agricultural
ministries and of the Marketing Boards.



-9 -
32.       The Federal Government is generally aware of these constraints and
of the need for further improvements in planning and executive capabilities
at both the State and Federal levels. There is a dearth of technical and
managerial personnel at all levels which suggests a need for greater ration-
alization of the responsibilities of public agencies and for much closer
coordination in the activities of such agencies, if the effectiveness of
available manpower is to be maximized.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
33.       Since 1971 the Bank has approved loans for thirteen agricultural
projects in Nigeria. Of these thirteen projects, one relates to livestock,
seven others relate to the development of specific crops (oil palm, cocoa
and rice) while the remaining five relate to the general agricultural devel-
opment of target areas and are similar in structure to the proposed project.
Among this latter group the three northern projects (Loans 1092-UNI,
1099-UNI and 1164-UNI) are now well established and their success has demon-
strated the advantages of planned agricultural development implemented under
a reformed administrative structure which allows overall State control while
affording management full day-to-day operational autonomy. Government and
the Bank have been able to review together the progress of these projects,
and are generally satisfied with the approach adopted. Both Federal and
State Governments are anxious to replicate this project structure in other
States of the Federation. There is also interest in increasing the role
of the commercial agricultural sector in line with the approach pursued by
these projects. In this respect, the projects are acting as catalysts of
change on a much wider basis than was initially envisaged.
34.       In addition to the continuing dialogue on agricultural subsidies,
the Bank's agricultural development projects also address and contribute to
resolving other critical issues and bottlenecks to sector growth. Among
these issues is the procurement and distribution of farm inputs which, being
centralized at the Federal level, results in inefficient supply to farmers.
Another central issue is the failure of the Nigerian Agricultural and Coopera-
tive Bank to provide a viable framework for the development of smallholder and
commercial farm credit. Yet another shortcoming is the inadequacy of physical
infrastructure such as feeder roads. The existing and proposed Bank financed
agricultural development projects would provide for the better procurement
and distribution of inputs, farm credit, and physical infrastructure as an
integrated minimum development package that will permit agricultural take-off
in any given area.
35.       The most critical physical constraint facing Nigerian agriculture
today, however, is a lack of experienced manpower at the managerial, admin-
istrative and technical levels to plan and implement development programs.
The short-term solution to this problem adopted in Bank-supported projects is
international recruitment and the establishment of special project management
units. However, a long-term solution would necessarily involve the training
of Nigerian management staff. To this end, and at the request of Government,
the Bank has appraised a project for the establishment of an Agricultural and



- 10 -
Rural Management Training Institute. Furthermore, training components are
included in all of the Bank-financed projects. The Agricultural Projects
Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU) created under the Funtua
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1092-UNI) is also being expanded with
the help of additional assistance from the Bank provided under the Ayangba
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1455-UNI). The monitoring of the
proposed Bida project would be conducted in close liaison with the APMEPU.
The proposed project would include an expanded training component based on
experience with other ongoing projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project evolved from a more narrowly defined rice
development project for the Bida area which was first identified by the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) in November 1974. The process of project
preparation was interrupted by the partition of the former North Western
State. Subsequently, after review by a Bank identification mission in October
1976, it was recommended that the project concept be expanded to encompass
the development of infrastructure and other major crops in addition to rice.
On the basis of that proposal a CP preparation mission visited Nigeria in
early 1977. To provide additional background information the Federal Depart-
ment of Agriculture commissioned local consultants to prepare a socio-economic
survey of the project area, a resource inventory and irrigation engineering
studies. The consultants submitted their report in September 1977. The
project was appraised by the Bank in September 1977 and the Staff Appraisal
Report (1912-UNI) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held with the Nigerian Authorities in November 1978.
Supplementary data on the project is to be found in Annex III.
37.       The primary objective of the proposed project is to raise the pro-
ductivity and, hence, the incomes of an estimated 60,000 farm families
located in the southern part of Niger State. The project area covers about
a quarter of the State. This region has a good agricultural potential and
is quite densely populated. The typical farmer cultivates an average of only
3 hectares which he holds under the traditional land tenure system. Small-
holdings of this size yield an average annual family income of US$615 under
present agricultural practices. Average family incomes would be raised some
25 percent in real terms by the end of the five year project period, which
constitutes a major improvement compared with the present static production
performance.
38.       The vehicle for accomplishing this goal consists of a package of
services to assist farm and crop development, together with strategic invest-
ment in supporting infrastructure such as irrigation, water control, and
feeder roads. To implement the project a management unit would be set-up
with appropriate technical and administrative staff. The project concept
underlying the proposed loan corresponds closely to that which has been
applied successfully in a number of previous Bank loans to Nigeria. The
agricultural development projects in Funtua, Gusau, Gombe, Lafia, and Ayangba



- 11 -
are cases in point. It is anticipated that the experience derived from these
previous loans would be directly relevant to the implementation of the pro-
posed project. In some cases it may be possible to transfer managerial staff
from previous well established projects to the proposed project. Where such
transfers are possible, past experience shows that the managers can bring
with them a built-in know-how of Nigerian conditions that enables project
implementation to move ahead at an accelerated pace.
39.       In terms of farm and crop development the project estimates to
increase production of both subsistence and cash crops on some 61,000 ha
of land (30 percent of the total cropped area).  Farming practices would
be improved by providing fertilizers, improved seeds, crop protection mea-
sures and access to farm credit. A key element of the project would be to
strengthen extension services by raising the ratio of field staff to farmers
from the present low level of 1:1,200 to a more effective level of 1:500.
The extension service would operate from 23 farm service centers to be estab-
lished throughout the project area. In addition to general extension advice,
a farm management advisory service would be established to provide technical
advice to some 500 commercial farms (averaging 25 hectares each) which operate
in the project area. The advisory service would also encourage group farming
in-thqse cases where farmers are responsive to the idea.
40.       Other support services provided by the project would include farm
trials to test new technology and farming practices, crop protection services,
and seed multiplication. For this purpose the State Government would make
land available to the project (see Section 2.11(b) of Project Agreement). Yet
another service of the project would entail a reorganization of the local
Tractor Hire Unit to improve its operational efficiency and cost effective-
ness. Finally, assistance would be provided to farmers in designing improved
irrigation layouts. This latter element of the service package ties in
closely with the irrigation and water-control works that would be undertaken
directly by the project. In total these works would affect 7,300 ha and
would encompass the rehabilitation and expansion of three existing irrigation
schemes developed by Government initiative, the improvement of water control
on other irrigation schemes developed by farmers and the reclamation of valley
swamps.
41.       Past experience has shown that the majority of small-scale farmers
in Nigeria are quite conservative in their adherence to traditional farming
practices. Only a progressive minority are likely to adopt advanced produc-
tion methods within the five year project period. Accordingly, the project
is structured in such a way as to offer both a Basic Service Package (BSP)
and an Advanced Service Package (ASP). It is expected that most of the BSP
participants would improve about one quarter of their farms. The main bene-
fits would accrue from modest applications of inorganic fertilizers, the use
of improved seeds, increased planting densities and the better control of
disease, pests and weeds. Participants in the ASP, on the other hand, are
likely to improve their total farm area. They would be encouraged to adopt
a range of advanced production methods including mechanization, better water
control, land use planning and soil conservation. These advanced techniques
are expected to be applied to about 21,000 ha. (one-third of the area subject
to improved cropping).



- 12 -
42.       In support of the farm and crop development effort, some 650 km
of low cost gravelled feeder roads would be constructed or improved.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, prior to completion of the
project, the State Government would prepare detailed long-term plans includ-
ing the designation of institutional responsibilities and funding procedures
acceptable to the Bank for the maintenance of about 1,000 km of project area
roads (see Section 2.12 of Project Agreement). Other civil works include
the provision of housing for project staff and buildings for the project
administration, including, in addition to a headquarters complex, 4 agricul-
tural development centers and 23 farm service centers complete with service
facilities. In the longer run these structures will provide the local gov-
ernment administration with required infrastructure for continuing agricul-
tural support services.
43.       A key component of the project consists of consultant services,
estimated at 50 man-months to assist the State Ministry of Natural Resources
(MNR) in start-up operations for the project and to prepare plans and studies
in a number of areas. These would include detailed plans for management
training and staff development, an evaluation of rice milling and other
agro-processing industries in the project area and a broader review of state
agricultural policies and strategies. The consultants would also prepare
a feasibility study for a second-stage project. The consultants are likely
to be recruited internationally, either as firms or individuals and the cost
of their services is estimated at US$8,000 per man-month (consisting of
US$5,000 fees and an allowance of US$3,000 for travel and per diem expenses).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that BPMU would be responsible
for the preparation of detailed terms of reference for review and approval
by the Bank so as to ensure that consultants would be appointed with quali-
fications, experience and on conditions and terms satisfactory to the Bank
(see Section 2.04 of Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
44.       Following the precedent of other similar Bank-financed projects,
a Bida Project Management Unit (BPMU) would be established to implement the
project.  The BPMU would work closely with the MNR so that technical innova-
tions developed by the project would be disseminated throughout the State.
The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of BPMU would focus not only on project
operations but would also provide an input to the State's long-term planning
needs. Furthermore, the senior training officer of the Unit would work
closely with Local Government Councils (LGC) to develop training programs
for their staff in areas related to project activities. This will facili-
tate the eventual take-over of the project by LGC staff when the BPMU is
phased-out. During the fourth year of implementation, the Federal and State
Governments, together with the Bank, would review project progress and plans
drawn up by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of BPMU and would make recom-
mendations for the future of the project (see Section 2.13 of Project Agree-
ment).



- 13 -
45.       The BPMU would be responsible for the procurement, distribution
and sale of seeds, insecticides, other farm inputs and equipment. It would
also administer farm credit under the project. Medium-term (3 year) credit
would be provided to smallholder rice growers for the purchase of tools
and the hiring of labor to develop their individual irrigated fields.
Experience on other projects shows that the demand for short-term credit
is not very great in the prevailing situation of highly subsidized farm
inputs. Nevertheless some seasonal credit, repayable within 12 months, would
be provided. Interest rates for farm credit would be related to the overall
interest rate structure in Nigeria. The current commercial bank rate is 9
percent and the NACB (which acts principally as a wholesale bank) lends at 7
percent. In the context of current inflation these interest rates are nega-
tive in real terms. Over the three year period 1975-77, inflation averaged 26
percent annually and it is projected to average 20 percent in the coming three
year period. There has been a tendency in recent years to gradually increase
interest rates.   It was agreed during negotiations that interest on project
farm credit should be subject to automatic adjustment in line with other
prominent interest rates. Accordingly, it was agreed that medium-term credit
would bear an annual interest rate of 9-1/2 percent or of 2 percent above
NACB's maximum current lending rate, whichever is higher. Seasonal loans
would carry a service charge of 10 percent or of 2-1/2 percent more than the
NACB rate, whichever is higher (see Schedule 2 (3) of Project Agreement). All
credit would be closely supervised by IPMU to minimize the risk of resource
misallocation.
46.       Overall control of the BPMU would be exercised by the Bida Project
Executive Committee (BPEC) under the chairmanship of the MNR Permanent Secre-
tary. Membership of the BPEC would include representatives of the principal
state ministries and of project area local government councils. The Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development would also be represented. The
chief administrative officer of the BPMU would act as secretary of the BPEC.
Amongst the principal functions and responsibilities of the BPEC would be to
determine project policy, exercise budgetary and financial control, approve
annual work programs and appoint senior technical and management staff.
Another important function would be to ensure cooperation and coordination
between state ministries and local government bodies in matters affecting
project implementation. Promulgation in the official gazette of the consti-
tution and the terms of reference for both BPMU and BPEC would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (see Section 6.01(b) of Loan Agreement).
47.       Staffing of the management unit is germane to the expeditious
implementation of the project. Experience shows that there is great scarcity
in Nigeria of manpower with the experience and capability necessary to manage
a project of this nature. In the case of similar projects in the past the
Bank encouraged state governments to recruit Nigerian staff for key positions.
Apart from a few exceptions, however, the results were generally disappoint-
ing. The project makes provision, therefore, for the international recruit-
ment of key personnel at an estimated cost of about US$5,000 per month. On
previous occasions the Bank's own Agricultural Projects Management Unit for
West Africa (APMU) has assisted both State and Federal Governments in the



- 14 -
selection and recruitment of international staff. A request has been received
from the Niger State Government that APMU provide the same services for the
present project, and advertising and selection procedures are under way.
The appointment of a project manager and chief accountant would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (see Section 6.01(d) of Loan Agreement). The Niger
State Government would agree to the prompt secondment to BPMU of appropriate
technical and other staff from the State Ministry of Natural Resources, and
project area LGCs would transfer their extension staff and extension functions
to BPMU (see Section 2.11(c) of Project Agreement).
Project Costs
48.       Total costs for the project period 1978-83 are estimated at US$64.4
million (including taxes and duties of US$3.2 million), of which the foreign
exchange component would amount to 36 percent or US$23 million. A break-
down of cost by major expenditure categories is given in the loan and project
summary. An allowance has been made for physical contingencies equal to 5
percent of base costs for all items other than roads and irrigation works.
These latter items carry a physical contingency of 15 percent. Price con-
tingencies for foreign costs allow for an annual rate of international
inflation between 6 and 8 percent. Price contingencies for local costs are
estimated at 20 percent per annum except for government-hired labor, the cost
of which is expected to rise by 13 percent a year over the project period.
On the basis of these considerations, total contingencies are estimated at
US$20.9 million -- some 48 percent of base costs.
Project Financing
49.       The proposed loan of US$23 million would finance 38 percent of
total project cost net of tax and would be equivalent to the entire foreign
exchange cost of the project. The full US$23 million would be relent by the
Borrower to the Niger State Government on the same terms as the Bank loan.
The Federal Government would carry the foreign exchange risk, however. The
signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the Niger
State Government would be a condition of loan effectiveness (see Section
6.01 (a) of Loan Agreement).
50.       Of the US$41.4 million remaining project cost, the Federal Govern-
ment would finance US$16.1 million and the Niger State Government would
finance the other US$25.3 million. Their contribution to total project
cost, therefore, would amount to 25 percent and 39 percent, respectively.
51.       A number of ongoing Bank-financed agricultural development projects
are suffering from a failure of the Government to provide adequate counter-
part funding in a timely manner. In some cases there have also been adminis-
trative delays in passing Bank funds to the project unit. In order to reduce
such problems to a minimum, agreement was obtained during negotiations that:
a) as a condition of loan effectiveness, a commercial bank account be opened
for the BPMU with an initial deposit of N1.0 million (see Section 6.01(c)
of Loan Agreement); b) the Bank would disburse funds directly to BPMU's
commercial bank account; c) BPMU submit to the Federal Government, the



- 15 -
State Government and to the Bank, at least 4 months prior to the begin-
ning of each fiscal year, an annual budget proposal for the project as
approved by the Project Executive Committee; d) both the FMG and the NSG
provide their quarterly contribution to the project at least 3 months in
advance in accordance with the approved annual budget; e) the NSG extend
its guarantee to any overdrafts drawn by the BPMU up to an equivalent of
six months project expenditure requirements; f) Government subventions
to cover subsidies on farm inputs for the project be paid to BPMU no later
than September of the year prior to procurement of the inputs; and g) BPMU's
audited accounts be submitted to the Bank within four months after each
fiscal year together with a statement from the auditor certifying that Bank
funds had been used for their intended purpose. These understandings are
reflected in Sections 2.02, 2.10 and 3.02 of the Project Agreement.
Cost Recovery
52.       Present Government policy is to provide substantial subsidies
for many farm inputs, especially in the case of fertilizers where subsidies
amount to 80 percent of the cost. Under the project farm inputs other than
those subject to official subsidies would be sold to smallholders at full
cost. Likewise, farmers would be charged commercial prices for plant pro-
tection and tractor hire. Farmers involved in formal irrigation schemes
currently pay N6/ha per annum for maintenance, and no payments are made for
capital recovery. Under the project farmers will pay the full cost of annual
maintenance and an annual charge sufficient to permit the full recovery of
the nominal capital cost over a period of 30 years. It was agreed during
negotiations to set these charges at N15 per hectare for the first three years
of the project and N21 per hectare thereafter. In the case of informal irri-
gation schemes the farmers will carry out maintenance at their own expense
and will pay an annual charge based on the same principle of cost recovery
as that applied to formal schemes. Charges would be set at N5 per hectares
at first and would be raised to N10 per hectare after three years. These
charges represent a substantial increase over current levies, and at this time
represent an adequate move towards achieving full cost recovery. Furthermore,
the charges will be subject to periodic review by the Bank and Niger State to
determine their adequacy (see Section 2.10(c) of Project Agreement).
Procurement
53.       Contracts for fertilizers, chemicals, vehicles, tractors and heavy
equipment valued at US$100,000 or more would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. The aggregate cost
of such items of procurement is estimated at about US$10.0 million net of
contingencies. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed 15 percent
preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower, for purposes
of bid evaluation. Local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank would be employed for contracts over US$30,000 but
less than US$100,000. For contracts of less than US$30,000 local competitive



- 16 -
shopping would be employed. Experience with similar projects shows that
contracts for houses, stores, buildings and the formal irrigation works
(having an estimated aggregate value of about US$12.0 million) would not be
attractive to foreign contractors because of the small size of individual
contracts and the dispersed location of the works. Such contracts would
be awarded, therefore, on the basis of local competitive bidding in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The construction of roads
and of headworks and canals for irrigation would be undertaken by the project
on force account due to a continuing shortage of dependable contractors able
to undertake this type of work. The total value of these items is estimated
at US$3.6 million. The services of consultants and internationally recruited
staff (valued at US$3.8 million) would be obtained in accordance with Bank
procedures. Salaries and operating expenses constitute a major element of
the project cost (US$13.7 million).
Disbursement
54.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period 1979-1983.
Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign exchange expendi-
tures on vehicles, equipment, farm inputs, construction costs and the salaries
of internationally recruited staff. Where items are locally procured, dis-
bursement would be made against a lower proportion of costs -- 90 percent in
the case of vehicles and equipment, 85 percent in the case of farm inputs,
and 45 percent in the case of construction costs and 25 percent for irrigation
works. On this basis total disbursements are estimated at US$6.0 million
against vehicles and equipment, US$4.4 million against farm inputs, US$4.3
million against construction costs, US$1.3 million for irrigation schemes
and US$4.7 million against internationally recruited staff, consultants and
overseas training of local staff. An additional provision of US$2.3 million
has been made on an unallocated basis.
Economic Benefits
55.       The overall economic rate of return is estimated to be 16 percent.
The irrigation and water development component of the project (which accounts
for about 20 percent of total project costs) has a 12 percent rate of return
and the remaining general farm development component a 17 percent rate of
return. The satisfactory overall rate of return on the project as a whole is
due mainly to the introduction of low cost technological innovations that are
expected to result in significant increases in crop yields over the present
low levels. Sensitivity tests show that even if farmer adoption rates are
only 70 percent of targeted levels the economic rate of return would still be
11 percent which may be considered satisfactory in the Nigerian context.
56.       Most of the project beneficiaries would be drawn from the poorest
income groups in Nigeria. The present level of farm income in the project
area amounts to an average of only US$90 per capita. If the project achieves
its target of raising farm incomes by 25 percent in real terms it will have a
major beneficial effect upon nutritional standards in the area and will con-
tribute significantly to meeting the basic needs of the 60,000 farm families
directly benefiting from the project.



- 17 -
57.       In addition, the project is expected to yield a number of other
major, albeit non-quantifiable benefits. The training of technical staff
and the development of appropriate institutions would strengthen the cap-
abilities of the Niger State Ministry of Natural Resources. This would
facilitate the planning and implementation of future projects in the state
and set the stage for a possible expanded state-wide program of agricultural
development some time in the future.  The project would also demonstrate the
viability of commercial development of support services and the benefits of
decentralizing public sector operations in agricultural development, all of
which may have a far-reaching and profound impact upon the broader policies
and programs of the Government in the agricultural sector.
58.       Other benefits are relatively modest.  Direct employment generation
would amount to about 8,000 man-years and would involve, for the most part, a
more intensive use of family labor. Some non-farm employment in other sectors
would be induced, however, by the higher level of economic activity in the
project area. Insomuch as Nigeria is a net importer of food, some US$12
million of foreign exchange would be saved by way of import substitution when
the project reaches full maturity. A further US$2 million may be earned by
the export of incremental cotton production.
Project Risks
59.       Smallholder agricultural development projects are inherently complex
and the full attainment of project benefits may conceivably be jeopardized by
delays in implementation and inadequate staffing. These risks will be reduced
by the international recruitment of key personnel and by having as a condition
of effectiveness the appointment of senior project management. The potential
risk of insufficient counterpart funding would be reduced by the financial
covenants which were agreed during negotiations. Risks of a technical nature
are not great because the technological packages are conceptually fairly
simple and are supported by research data and experience obtained elsewhere in
Nigeria. A major advantage for project implementation will be the experience
to date on other Bank-assisted agricultural development projects in Nigeria.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Niger
State of Nigeria, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report. Additional conditions of loan effectiveness are



- 18 -
(a) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and Niger
State; (b) the establishment of a project bank account by Niger State with
an initial deposit of N1.O million; and (c) promulgation by Niger State in
the Official Gazette of a notice establishing the Bida Project Management
Unit and the Bida Project Executive Committee in a form and with powers and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; and (d) the appointment of a project
manager and chief accountant.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 5, 1979
Washington, D. C.



-19 -                                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGERIA                                                  /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            923.8                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     445.0                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP L.
GCP PER CAPITA (US$1                   120.0       200.0     420.0            223.6       432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       34.0         52.0      90.0             86.7       251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         51.6         66.2      79.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 18.0          23.0      26.0             13.6        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        56.0         72.0      86.0             18.4        42.7         50.8
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0         152.0     178.0             53.6        95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.0 e       44.8      45.1             44.4        44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.9 /f      53.0      52.6             52.7        52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.1 1f       2.2       2.3              2.8         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          2.5       2.5              2.6         2.7          2.5
URBAN                               5.0          5.0       5.0              5.8         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.3         49.8      49.3             46.9        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.9         24.5      22.7             20.6        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.3       3.3               3.1        3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          7.6      33.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..             2.5        14.2         20.0
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              97.0        100.0      87.6             94.2       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    91.0 J      89.0      88.0             90.1        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0 L,      59.9      46.3             55.2        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.7 ft      16.3       9.3             17.1        17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..          ..         ..              ..         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
lIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    33.5          38.5      41.0             43.7        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           207.0           ..     163.0            138.4        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..            22.4        31.1        56.8
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            66.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            10.4        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..            23.9        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            70.3        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            14.2        25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          56900.O0h   24660.0j  25440.0          21757.5      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      7640.0/h    5070.0L   6230.0            3473.8      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2770.ol0h    2220.0    1900.0            645.4       786.5        493.9
URBAN                                ..        400.0         ..           172.9       278.4        229.6
RURAL                                 ..     18450.0         ..          1292.6      1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..             19.2       19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..             4.9          ..          5.2
URBAN                                ..           ..        4.7              5.0         ..          5.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..             4.7          ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..               ..         ..          2.0
URBAN                               3.0           ..        2.2               ..        2.3          1.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..               ..         ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..               ..       28.3         64.1
URBAN                                ..           ..       42.4               ..         ..         67.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..               ..       10.3         34.1



2 0                                                          AMEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGERIA                                                 /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAHE        SA1IE    NEIT HIGHER
IMDST RECENT    GEOGR4PHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 A      1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 36.0        34.0      49.0             52.1        75.8        99.8
FEMALE               27.0         25.0      39.0             37.6       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         4.0       10.0             8.0        17.7        33.8
FEMALE                1.0          3.0       7.0              5.0       12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  5.0          8.5       3.8 /k           7.2         7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            30.0        34.0       34.0            43.2        34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                          19.0        21.0      25.0             22.8        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        25.0 /1        ..        ..            20.3        63.7        71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7         1.0        2.1             3.9         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.0        23.0      69.0             40.1        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.2         1.4        1.8             2.2        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   8.0         5.0       9.0              3.9        16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        0.5             1.2         1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18300.0 /f  25600.0   29900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   41.3        40.6      40.2             32.6        28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              71.0        67.0       61.0            73.3        54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.4        13.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.7        40.5       39.1            42.0        37.8        33.8
MALE                                 50.9        48.8       47.4            54.8        50.3        48.1
FEMALE                               34.8        32.4       31.0            27.3        20.9        17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4 /f      1.2        1.2             1.2         1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS                             .             25.7        19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    .             .         .             55.1        48.9        52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          .                         5.8         5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      .           .          .             14.5        15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .          ..         .            108 8       155.9       191.9
RURAL                                ..                   74.0            74.1        97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .          ..      175.0           124.4       143.7       319.8
RURAL                                             .       83.0            59.6        87.3       197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 .          ..       33.0            26.8        22.9        19.8
RURAL                                                     27.0            47.6        36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-113S per capita, 1976);  /f  1963;  L&  1961-63;   /h  1962;   /i Registered, not all
practicing in the country;    Li  Including ex-north Cameroons under British administration;   /k  certain
fields of study previously classified under other second level education of a vocational of technical
nature are now reported under general education;  Ll  prior to 1965.
September, 1978



ANNX T
- 21 -                                                                         Page 3 of5
DEItrITiIONS OP 9OCIAL ONDICATORS
Notes :  Although the date  -r  dr     iron,cere  gene.raiiy judged the nest authoritative and reliable, it choold nine bo -td chat they nay nout he itotr-
ne.tionil1y cntpnrable because. of the tack of standardined definitione and ePnnspts used hy differ or  cnrtee to collecting the date.  The data are.  -cothetess
usful t  denribe orders of -tgcittde, indicate trends, end characteriats crtain na jor differences hetweno cutrie..
The edlusced grupavr-ce  for eah indicator are pepuletton-oIghted gacentric meosa, c-tldiog the etr.n. value  of the tediontor and the 'net
populated countr  in oat  grou._p.  Ce aaof counties anug  h. fedi-raror  depends on eveilahility of daca. a_dis  -c uiorn.-   Due tc lack of da ta,
groupaveage  orCapitol  urTue- Oil inp-rter  and indictorn of scc.s. to water sod  --ctec  disposal , housing. iut-c  diacrihutio  and poverty are
sipepopuioti---wiohted g-outcric men ithout the eotleiton of entrants ens
LANfI AREA (thousan.d sq. ho)                                                           Population Po, hcnciti had - itotAl. urban, end rural - Population hotetl.
Total - Total surfacere  com,prining lend area end inland waters.                        urhan, and rural ) divided by theic respective numbhee of hoepital beds
Agricultural1   Mus. rut  .estimte uagriou1teral ares ese d temporseily                  availahle in puhlic end private generaladiep.ceia-ed hospital andr-
or peemaInetly fr eo  patue.   nacht and kitchen gardene or no                         hahilitastion teeters.  go-pitale are eatlblishments permanently staffed hy
lie falew                                                                              at la..et ens physicias.  Establishmen ts presiding Principally ..ustodial
care are not included.  coral heapitals, henrec, include health and medi-
IMP PER CAPITA (US)  - iNP per capita estimates at eurreec market prices.                 .al centers net permanen.tly staffed hy a physician (hot hy a medicalas
*                       calcul~~~~~~~eted by  ae  ovesu  metho  as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);           sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which effe ccin-patient a.cumedstion and
19hO, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                             previde a limited reaga of medical1 facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total ..unher of admissions te oe dischargaa
ENrRlY CONSUMiPTION PER CAPITA - Auneal ce-somptien of coemmercial energy                 frehsItala divided by the number of beds..
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas end hydc-, nuclear end gao-
therma  electricity) En kiliogrems of coal equivalent per capita.                 HOUSING
Aerage. alas of household (persu.. per household) - total, urban, and rorel -
C                     ~~~~~~~~~~POPULATIONADVTLSAITC                                                             A heusehuld consists of a group of individuals who sbare living quarters
Total P.Opultion. mid-ve.e  .milinu  - As of July 1; if net eavalable.                   and their main sas   A beerder or lodger may or map nor be included is
avergeo  two en-year etmteaI l96S, 1970, and 1977 data.                                the household for statistical purpeses.  Statistical definitions of honse-
Urhan puplation (percetcitotl  - gatEsa of urhan to totai popula-                        held var Y.
nine  diferet dfinitiuns of urhac areas map affect comparahility               A        frgenmbre  per-acs per teem - tetal. ucben. and rural - Averae mm
ci data among concirias.                                         her~AV':  of  erenapec reps in ail, urban, and rural eccupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, cespective1y.  Dwellings  -nlude uno-peomaneet structures and
Per  sq. ko. - Mid-year population par square kilometer (155 hectarse)                  uneceupie  part..
o,f total area.                                                                      Acceas te eletricity  pretc  delns   total. urbem. and rue.d  -
Par e. ho. agiculture land - Computed. asbsove for agricu1tur-I lend                   Conveantiossi dwellings with elctrcity i  living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                 oftotal, urban, end rueal dwllings respectively.
Population ace structure (percent) - Children li-lb years), w-kilg-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and ever) eas percentages of mid-            EDUCATION
Year population                                                                     Wadnuted enrollment rgtice
Popuiation groth rats (percept) - total, and urhan - Compund annual                   Plrimary  cpheel - total, and fenni  - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of t tInl and  rhbn mEd-pesr pepulaticen for 1910-60,                     at the prmry level ans percAantgee of respectively primary ecohenl-age
I960-_5  an  17-.pepulaniess; neemelly inludes children aged h-il years but adjuetd for
Crude birth rate (pe thuad)-oualiebrhprthnadf                                            different isogth  of primary education; fur countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-peat  rcith,tetic  -vcgas tudingtin 1960tsod                  canion enrollmet may enosad li peccan t ninca sums pupils ar  bew Pr
1970  nd five-year average ending In 1971 for mos reen  esiae                          above the official school age.
Crude death rt(prtosn)-Anadehser thun  of mid-                                         Seuondarv acheo  - inte.adfemale - Cumputed as shove; secondary educe-
year  ,peplatien; ten-peat arith,metic aseragas ending in 1960 and 1970                tierqie   tlst feu  Yeare of approvedP pimacy inatruction; pre-
and five-pact averageaend ing it 1975 for meet recent estimate,                        sides general v-ctienal, of teacher training instructiones for pupils
tress cencuducetun case-Average number of da-ghnnre a womnill bear                       usual ly of 12 tc 17 years of ago; corraspnndeoe course  are gene.rally
inher nora  re pr odctive period if she experieces. present age-                     excluded.
s1pecificofertIlIIty' eants  asulip ftva-year avrges ending In 1960,                Vocational enrolmet 'Pecn nO  ecndrs  - Vocatiumal institutions in-
1975, and l97).                                                                        IL.d technical,industrial,t or otha  prgramre which upscal e independently
Pamily Plann ing - accetr,  nul(thousands) - Annual number  f                            or ga. departments of eecnAdrp institutions.
acceptors of birth-contro  devcsudraspcso   aina     al                              uiltahrrto     rmr.ad  secundery - Total students enrolled in
planning pengram.                                                                      primary and secendary lasi  divided by numbers of teachers in the corra-
Fenily Planning - use   prcent of married women) - Pere..ntage of                        spending levels.
married wome  of chldbearing age (I-44 peace)  h.e use birth-control               Adultc literary rate (percent) -Literate adults (able re read and wrIte)a
devices to oil married wome  in .s-  age grop.                                         a percentage ef total adult  .poplation aged 15 years and ever.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONfSUMPTION1
Ine o   od production per caPita (1970-leo)-Idex number of per                   Pa:ssege cr (prthn d oPPuletion) - Passen ger crar  copriese motor cars
capi'ta  annal prodution ofal   ee   ondit ice                                        setig  es  then eight persons; excludes ambulancs, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (pe~rcepto  renuiremente) - Computed free       vehicles.
ene rgy equvalent of neel fon   upliesfavailable in country per capita             Sadie receivers (Per theu-end Population) - All types if receivers for radin
per day.  Available supplien ounprisa domestic productien, imports I...              broadcastsitorgenral public per thousand ef population; secludes  unlicensed
enports,,and changen in stock.  Net supplies seclude animal fesad, seeds,            recaiver  Ena outries and in Years when regitrteaien of r.dic sets wsi
quantite   sd int fod processing, and losses in distribution.  Res-                  effeun; date f en recent pears may non b.e cmparable since mostconre
qulr...st   er  esimated by FAO bh...d en physiological needs for nor-               abolished lice...Ing.
mel activity and health considering ensironenta Itemperature, body                  TV esceivera (pet thousand pocelatien) - Tff receisers f or breadcest to geneald
woighte, age and sex distributions of pepulatice, and allowing 10 per-                 publ ic pen thcu.aand  .poplation; excludes unlicensed TV. receivrer  is coon-
cnfor waste at heuse.hoid lvel,                                                     tries and in years when registration% of TV sets w.as in effect.
Per tctic upplyof prtein(grams per day) - Protein content of Perawppccruain(r Ntosndppltin                                           hesteargeccu-
cepito net supplyatfope  day.  Set supply of fund Es defined atiofa "dily  asnarel intres..t  -enpaper",  4nf inad as a periodicnl publi-
uhbv.-   Requirements for all countries established by SODA prnside fr no              ration devoted primarily to recerding gen.erl nm.It ia cons.iderd to
minimum allowace of 6i grams if total protein per day and 20 grams                  ha "daily" if in eppear  at leas.t four time. awek
ofnixludplepoenofwih1  grams should he animal protein.                             Cinm.n.. ttnec  per caita per year - Base.d cc thm number of tickets
Teetadrdeoe -oe  than those of7grams of  ntl t protein and                    i` d duIn  the year , incldin  adission  tdrv-in cinemas and sobile
23 frame of animal protein aa an average fur the world, proposed by                    units..
PAO in the Third World Pood Survy.
Per cacita protein auclY from aimaland nulse - Protein supply of fend                EMPLOYMENT
derived frou animcalen  puse  in grams per da."                                     To tal labor force (thousands) - Ec..nomically active perenn, including arme-d
Child (agen i-4) mortality rate parthosand) - Annual1 deaths per theus-                  forces and unomployed hot encluding houseive, students. etc.  Dsf inl-
and in age group i-i years, to childe  in this age group.                              lions in various coun.tries are anot coepareble.
Peal (percent) - Paela labor force as percentage of total labor f--ce
HEALTH                                                                                 Agricultur (prcent) - Labor force to ferming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life enpectency an birth (years) - Average number of peers o f life                      as percenlage of total labor fcre..
remaining at birth; ..nually five-pear averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percet) -Labor force inmnn,construction, manfaturing and
e.nd lOP5,                                                                              electric.ity. watc and gas as percenta.ge of tonal labor foru.
oOant mortality calm (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total male end fem~ale- To tal, male, and
oeYear of age pet thousand.live birhts.                                              f emale labor force as Percen.tages of their respect Iv  populations.
Access to  . ea   Cuter (percent of cpulation) - total, urban, and rural1                These are ItO'sa.djusted participation ra tesreflecting age-see
SNmber of people (total, urban, an ural  wih re,asoable access tn                      structure of the populetion,  nod long time trend.
safe cater supply (includes trea'ted s.Urface watters or untreated but              Econo mic depen.dency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to
uncontaminated wenar such as then fro. prntected boreholes, springs,                   the labor farce in age group of ID-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percen.tages of their resepctive pplnes
In an urbantareafa PublIc fountain or standpost loauted not mere                   INCOME DISTRIBUITION
ta200xtrfoma .hous  map he considered as being within tea-                      Percentage of private incom   (bulb in cash end hind) received by richest S
sonble accs  of thaLt house.  to rural areas reasonable access woud                   percent,'richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percen.t, and poorest hi part..nt
imply that the housewife or members of the household de met have to                    Pfhouseholds.
spend a dieproportionsta pert of tbs day is fenobing the family's
Amass cc sucata diposal (cment of eeulatice)- total.urben   n          siae absout noarty income level, ilS!per c,apIta) - urban and rural-
rural - Somber of people (total,-urhen,Tad rural) seredby  xcet                          Abaciutepoet  iso.. IeelE   ha   nem                 e  below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their res pective populat ions.  Emirtet                    nutrituionally adequate diet*plu  esse..ntial non-food requirements is not
disPosa  matp inclu.de the collection and disposel, with or without                    affordable.
trnatment, of human excrete and waste-waist by water-hems. systme                   Estimated relat ive neverty income level (500 per capita) - urban end rural-
or the use opit Privies end         . siiat lnetalatio.                                Reltveparty iim   leve  is that inc-nt  level less then One-third
Population Per Physician - Population divie  by number of practicing                     pr capita peresmnal incoma of thecountry.
physicians qualifiead iron a medical school at univ-rsty level.                     Estisted pplto  belo  pove.rty- lcome level (tp,eitet) - unbanx am  rural-
Popu~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Pplation e.usn  esn-Ppltc  divided by number ef                   Peret ef pepulat ice (urbn  end rural)woae ether "abselute peer" or
prctiInml  and female graduace nurses., pra-ticel purees, and                       "relative Peer" whichever is greater.
Ecoomoic and Bocial Bats Division
Economic Analysis and Peeojactions Dspartesn



ANNEX I
- 22-                                              Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                         1974-77              12216            1927
GNP at Market Prices          39839         100.0                         7.4               11.3              5.4
Gross Domestic Investment    12119           30.4                        30.7               24.5             23.6
Gross Naticnal Saving         11101          28.3                        26.3               16.6             17.8
Current Account Balance       -1018           2.5
Exports of Goods, NFS         12639          31.7                         1.9               14.7              9 9
Imports of Goods, NFS         13236          33.2                        33.1               31.0             17.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PPODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                   Labor Force /                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ M. _n_                       Mln. _                           US $ 
Agriculture                    9897       30.4                  18.3       61                     541         50
Industry                      15032       46.2                   5.2       17                    2891        265
Services                       7636        23.4                  5.0       17                    1527        140
Unallocated                                                      1.4        5
Total/Average           2
32566      100.                   = 9.9    100.0                  1U89        100.0
GOVER.NOTT FINANCE
Oeneral Government                              Central Gcvern;nent
( N Mln.)         $fi of GD? 2Mlnn.)                               %of GDP
1927178        1977/8  1976/7-1977/8             1977/8        1977/S    1976/7-77/f3
Current Receipts                  T8809            34.1         34.8                 8359          32.3           32.?
Current Expenditure                5nt7            19.5         19.0                 2697          10.4           10.0
Current Surplus                    3762            14           15.6                 5662          2.9          7.7
Capital Expenditures               8822            34.1         33.0                 6287          24.3           24.4
External Assistance (net)
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1972         1973         1974        1997                    1977
TMllion  N  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      1161.4      1414.1       2156.3       3622.5      5278.9    7067.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                519.0       497.1      -1460.1      -1281.5       199.5    2094.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector               750.2       854.4       1070.2       1786.1      2417.8    3514.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            15.1         15.9        14.9        21.9         26.7     27.3
General Price Index (196X) = 100)           172.9       203.9        217.0       289.6        352.4    423.1
Annual percentage changes int
General Price Index                          -3.5        17.9           6,3       33.5         21.7     21.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                 -2.3        -4.2          n.a.        n.a.        n.a.    n.a.
Bank credit to Private Sector                26.9        12.7         26.6        66.8        35.4      45.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices
Not applicable



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                         Page 5 of 5
TRADB PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1975     1976      1977                                                  US $ Min    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           8623      10549    12639              Crude Oil                           9281        91.3
Imports of Goods, NFS           8149     10517    13236              Cocoa Products                        380         3.7
Resource GaP (deficit =-)    174             32     -597             Palm Products                          44           .5
Tin                         ~~     ~    ~~~~26  .3
Interest Payments (net)          460        386      311            'Yin                                    26           .3
Workers' Remittances               - _411 Other Commodities                                                 439         4.2
Other Factor Payments (net)   -741        -676      -547
Net Transfers                   -125       -156     -184
Balance on Current Account        68       -414    -1018                     Total                       10170       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        410        340      440             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 107         61       94                                                         US S Mln
Amortization                  _34        -29      -61
Subtotal                       73         32       33               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               1284
Capital Grants                                                         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Ca?ital (net)             -254       -453     -110               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               - 40        +66     -199
Increase in Reserves (+)         257      -429      -854             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-
Gross Reserves (end year)      5896        5517     4617
Net Reserves   (end year)      5855        5426     4572               Public Debt. incl. guar.nteed              0.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 *
Puel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
T'ports                       162         280       212
of which:  Petroleum          -        -          -
Exports                      7430        9468    10944
of which:  Petroleum       7430        9468    10944       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31. 1978) (Million US 8):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                           IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                450         38.3
1975:  N1.03  =  US$1.62                                           Undisbursed                             343          -
1976:  Nl.OO  =  US$1.60                                           Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           79-3        38.3
1977:  Nl.OO  =  US$1.55
1978;  NI.O0  =  USS1.58
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
* Less than 1%
.. Not Available
January, 1979



ANNEX II
-24-                            Page I of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of December 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit                                                                   US$ million
Number     Year    Bborrower       Purpose                        Amount (less cancellations-)
Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
eleven loans and two credits fully disbursed                     312.1      35.5
427       1965      Nigeria       Roads                          14.5                 2.5
764       1971      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                      7.2                  .0
814       1972      Nigeria       Education                      17.3                 7.9
838       1972      Nigeria       Roads                          26.3                13.8
847       1972      NEPA          Power                          76.0                 2.5
922       1973      NPA           Port                           55.0                12.1
929       1973      Nigeria       Education                      54.0                47.8
1045       1974      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                     20.0                 8.9
1091       1975      Nigeria       Livestock                      21.0                17.6
1092       1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Funtua              29.0                 6.0
1099       1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Gusau               19.0                 2.6
1103       1975      Nigeria       Rice Dev.                      17.5                11.4
1164       1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Gombe               21.0                 6.7
1183       1975      Nigeria       M.W. State Oil Palm            29.5                28.5
1191       1976      Nigeria       E.C. State Oil Palm            19.0                16.6
1192       1976      Nigeria       W. State Oil Palm              17.0                14.2
1454       1977      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Lafia               27.0                24,5
1455       1977      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Ayangba             35.0                32.4
*1591       1978      Nigeria       Nuc. Est. Smallholder Oil   30.0                   30.0
1597       1978      NIDB          Industrial Dev.                60.0                60.0
Total                                       907.4     35.5    346.0
Of which has been repaid                    114.2       1.6
Total outstanding 1/                        793.2      33.9
Amount sold                      16.8
of which has been repaid         15.8        1.0
Total now held by Bar-. and IDA**           792.
Total undisbursed                           346.0      0.0    346.0
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of December 31, 1978)
Fiscal                               Type of               Amount in US$ Million
Year                                Business              Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,   Arewa Textiles Ltd.  Textile Mfg.            1.0      0.6       1.6
1970
1964        Nigeria Industrial   Dev. Fin. Co.                    1.4       1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973        Funtua Cottonseed    Veg. Oil                1.6                1 6
Crushing Ltd.         Crushing
1973        Nigerian Aluminum    Aluminum                1.0      0.3       1.3
Extrusion Ltd.        Processing
1974        Lagiagi Sugar          Sugar                          0.1       0.1
Estates,
Total Gross Commitments                     3.6      2.4       6.0
Less cancellations                        0.3                0.3
Less sold or repaid                       1.8      1.5       3.3
Total Commitments now held by IPC           1.5      0.9       2.4
Undisbursed                                  -       0.1       0.1
* Not yet Effective
i Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
1/Excluding cancellations of 5.0.



- 25 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 427-UNI      Western Nigeria Road Project:  US$14.5 million Loan of
September 26, 1965; Effective Date: March 29, 1966;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
The project has been completed. Before formal closure, the Bank
awaits word from the Government that no further withdrawal applications are
pending.
Loan No. 764-UNI      Western Cocoa Project:  US$7.2 million Loan of
June 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 5, 1971;
Closing Date: January 31, 1979
The project has been successfully completed. Before formal closure,
the Bank is processing the final withdrawal application.
Loan No. 814-UNI      Second Education Project:  US$17.3 million Loan of
April 18, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Disruptions caused by the creation of new State Governments in 1976
are no longer delaying the project. While progress is being made in the
implementation of the project in three of the four participating States, the
current financial constraints have affected 8 of the 9 schools in the project
in Imo State. The project should be completed during 1979. Discussions are
being held between the Bank and the Government with a view to strengthening
the project administration and making adequate provision for timely counterpart
funding. Once these issues have been resolved satisfactorily, the closing
date will be extended appropriately.
Loan No. 838-UNI      Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The construction components of the project have been completed.
The closing date of the loan was recently extended in order to complete
disbursements and to allow consultants to complete preparation for a Sixth
Highway Project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Loan No. 847-UNI      Fourth Power Project:  US$76.0 million Loan of
June 30, 1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
While the completion of the rural electrification component has
been delayed, the project is expected to be completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 922-UNI      Second Lagos Port Project:  US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Civil works are complete.  Container cranes are now on order and
will be in operation by the end of 1979. Total project costs are much in
excess of the appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns.
A revision of the tariff structure in 1977 considerably improved the
financial situation of the National Ports Authority.
Loan No. 929-UNI      Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and the
scope of the project is under review. Because of weak management and a need
to redesign the project, completion could be delayed by a year or more.
Project administration was complicated by the partition of many states
in 1976. Discussions are being held between the Bank and the Government with
a view to strengthening the project administration and making adequate provi-
sions for timely counterpart funding. Once these issues have been resolved
satisfactorily, a proposed revision of the project scope and extension of the
closing date will be submitted to the Board for consideration.
Loan No. 1045-UNI    Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Although the creation of new States has created some organizational
and managerial problems,the project is almost completed in three of the four
states. Progress of the Bendel State component is now better because manage-
ment/organizational problems have been reduced.
Loan No. 1091-UNI    Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States and operational difficulties. Serious problems of counterpart
funding from the Federal Government have been encountered. A contract has
recently been concluded with a management consulting firm and, as a result,
prospects for project implementation are greatly improved.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1092-UNI    Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily.  The
preparation of a feasibility study for an expanded second stage project to
cover the remainder of Kaduna State is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1099-UNI    Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily with support from both
Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is good and appraisal
objectives are being met and in some cases exceeded. Project unit costs are
some 25 percent above appraisal estimates due to domestic inflation.
There have been problems relating to the timely delivery of fertilizer
supplies which are centrally procured by the Federal Government. Recent
agreements between the Bank and the Government on the streamlining of
fertilizer procurement should help to resolve this problem. The possibility
of a second phase project is being examined.
Loan No. 1103-UNI    Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25, 1974;
Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank has withdrawn from the
project component located in Cross Rivers State because of acute problems of
cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. Plans to reallocate the
remaining funds to project components in Anambra and Imo States where physical
project progress is more satisfactory, will depend upon improved counterpart
funding.
Loan No. 1164-UNI    Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976; Closing Date:  July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable.
The demand for inputs and the production of maize is exceeding appraisal
estimates. Problems in recruiting intermediate and junior staff continue.
There have been no delays in the provision of local counterpart funds. The
preparation of a feasibility study for an expanded second-stage project to
cover the remainder of Bauchi State is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:
US$29.5 million Loan of December 31, 1975;
Effective Date: October 17, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition and completion of the
Federal and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal
targets have not been met for the smallholder component as a result of
financial and managerial problems. Management has improved recently but
planting targets are behind schedule. Cost overruns are likely to be
substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was delayed due to the creation of new states
and due to problems with intermediate and junior staffing. The latter have now
been resolved, but there are problems of local counterpart funding. Appraisal
targets have not been met and substantial cost overruns are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component is progressing well but planting is
lagging behind appraisal targets, although the final target is likely to be
achieved. Problems with estate land acquisition and funding delayed effec-
tiveness and will result in a reduced planted area.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After experiencing some problem of local counterpart funding the
project is new progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project initially made satisfactory physical progress but is
now hampered by inadequate counterpart funding. This may jeopardize the
project if not remedied soon.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project:
US$30 million Loan of June 6, 1976; Effective Date:
March 31, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding towards effectiveness and physical progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60 million
Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date: October 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The first sub-loan has
been processed and approved.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Ilorin Agricultural Development
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 9 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Federal Government
of Nigeria.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: October 1976.
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: October 1976.
(e) Date of departure of appraisal mission: November/December 1977.
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: November 9, 1978.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: July 2, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Federal Government would onlend US$22.4 million to the Kwara
State Government under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on the same
terms as the Bank loan. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 51).
(b) Senior staff of the Ilorin Project Management Unit (IPMU) would
be appointed with qualifications and experience and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  A senior training officer
would be appointed no later than December 31, 1979. The appoint-
ment of a project manager and chief accountant would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (para. 49).
(c)  The Kwara State Government would open a commercial bank account
for the IPMU with an initial deposit of N1.O million as a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 53).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The Niger State Government would promulgate in the Official
Gazette the establishment of both the BPMW and the Bida Project
Executive Committee (BPEC) in a form and with powers and respon-
sibilities acceptable to the Bank as a condition of loan effec-
tiveness (para. 46).
(e)  The Niger State Government would second appropriate technical
and other staff to the project in a timely manner (para. 47).
(f) Both the Federal Government and the Niger State Government
would provide at least 3 months in advance their quarterly
financial contributions to the project in accordance with
the approved annual project budget (para. 51).






IBRD 13306R
5-00                                    5- 30                                  6- 0'-
NIGERIA
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                            100-                    GE.
MAIN ROAD NETWORK AND PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL CENTERS                                                                                                N
To K(oduno
roKoduno          ~~~N I G ER    STATE                                                 _rM1a
CAMtSOON
\                                        r~~~~~~         ~        ~       ~~               ~~O Minna      Itnsooloud
/  2   .    \             <    g  1                           .       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6' 30'
s    I   '-.  \     <        /  /                       \                 ,@ ~~~~~~~MINNA
T rO Koinji                   /   /                        .,                   u,i
t3/   \   <                  _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  rt.   _ d/                                  s<_                  ,0   A \B U J A    9w30-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A\BU     A 9'3
_9,00,    fio l/orm czndio.70s   >                             lV     *    / Lag  >  ,'  \           \ >9^A~~~~~~~gaje    \   \                <  9o0
00                                             GI" B~~~~~1  "         
KWARA   SATE                w                                                       0,ko  Bot>U       uhool'1 LAfAIr
*Aroba DeveloprnentuCentigi A                                          aanding utrip Ktcha                                  /
Underm DesvicegCenters 1971)                                                        Ste C                                                                          itgall.,  | y
830ane Paved State Roandaries:0                                     Btai
J ae PavdRvr Bo /G A I Eo
-et3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Sun. tit                                  Enagi\  
- - -       Eorth Roods                                                                                                                                   Cc         O    i.
....D.Under Design X' 
K;iomesers 0  10      20     30     40      50>                                                                                         ;  
Miles 0         10         20          30          40
hb a,.. .0,w, m , shA  Oh h0Ah 1s arhAp 7hf, vmom ,,~  AOD  h    wl" 
*Wndj..,r'.." hh.demy.rtAv of.,,e>Mnesmyv A'               K  To Koton
5-  ARA                                                                        6 00'                                      3ANUARY 1979



